Reinsurance may not be available or affordable and may not be adequate to protect us against losses. Our subsidiaries are major purchasers of reinsurance and we use reinsurance as part of our overall risk management strategy. While reinsurance does not discharge our subsidiaries from their obligation to pay claims for losses insured under our policies, it does make the reinsurer liable to them for the reinsured portion of the risk. For this reason, reinsurance is an important tool to manage transaction and insurance line risk retention and to mitigate losses from catastrophes. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. For example, reinsurance may be more difficult or costly to obtain after a year with a large number of major catastrophes. As a result, we may, at certain times, be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms. In that case, we would have to accept an increase in exposure risk, reduce the amount of business written by our subsidiaries or seek alternatives in line with our risk limits. Additionally, we are exposed to credit risk with respect to our subsidiaries’ reinsurers to the extent the reinsurance receivable is not secured by collateral or does not benefit from other credit enhancements. We also bear the risk that a reinsurer may be unwilling to pay amounts we have recorded as reinsurance recoverable for any reason, including that (i) the terms of the reinsurance contract do not reflect the intent of the parties of the contract or there is a disagreement between the parties as to their intent, (ii) the terms of the contract cannot be legally enforced, (iii) the terms of the contract are interpreted by a court or arbitration panel differently than intended, (iv) the reinsurance transaction performs differently than we anticipated due to a flawed design of the reinsurance structure, terms or conditions, or (v) a change in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation of the laws and regulations, materially impacts a reinsurance transaction. The insolvency of one or more of our reinsurers, or inability or unwillingness to make timely payments under the terms of our contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, the use of reinsurance placed in the capital markets, such as through catastrophe bonds, may not provide the same levels of protection as traditional reinsurance transactions and any disruption, volatility and uncertainty in the catastrophe bond market, such as following a major catastrophe event, may limit our ability to access such market on terms favorable to us or at all. Also, to the extent that we intend to utilize catastrophe bond transactions based on an industry loss index or other non-indemnity trigger rather than on actual losses incurred by us, we could be subject to residual risk. Our inability to obtain adequate reinsurance or other protection could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 