Certain of our products have guarantees that may increase the volatility of our results. We offer variable annuity and life insurance products with features that guarantee a certain level of benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB), guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (GMAB), and products with guaranteed interest crediting rates tied to an index. In addition to risk-mitigating features in our variable annuity product design, we have an economic hedging program designed to manage market risk from GMWB and GMAB, including exposures to changes in equity prices, interest rates, credit spreads and volatilities. The hedging program utilizes derivative instruments, including but not limited to equity options, futures contracts, interest rate swap and swaption contracts, as well as fixed maturity securities with a fair value election. See Enterprise Risk Management – Life Insurance Companies Key Insurance Risks – Variable Annuity Risk Management and Hedging Program for additional discussion of market risk management related to these product features. Nevertheless, differences between the change in fair value of GMWB and GMAB embedded derivatives and the related hedging portfolio can be caused by extreme and unanticipated movements in the equity markets, interest rates and market volatility, policyholder behavior and our inability to purchase hedging instruments at prices consistent with the desired risk and return trade-off.  While we believe that our actions have reduced the risks related to guaranteed benefits and guaranteed interest crediting, our exposure may not be fully hedged, and we may be liable if counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay, although the majority of our hedging derivative instruments are exchange-traded, exchange-cleared and/or highly collateralized. We also remain exposed to the risk that policyholder behavior and mortality may differ from our assumptions. Finally, while we believe the impact of downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates would be mitigated by our economic hedging program, the occurrence of one or more of these events could result in an increase in the liabilities associated with the guaranteed benefits that is not fully offset by the hedging program, reducing our net income and shareholders’ equity. See Notes 4 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 1 – Business – Regulation, and Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates for more information regarding these products.