We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. In particular, there is very strong competition for financial services in Northern Virginia and the greater Washington, D.C. Metropolitan Area in which we conduct a substantial portion of our business. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as other local and community, super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions and many offer products and services that we do not. Many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. Some of our competitors are not subject to the same regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally-insured national banks, including credit unions which do not pay federal income tax, and, therefore, have regulatory advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. While we believe we compete effectively with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, smaller asset base, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. If we have to raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on loans to compete effectively, our net interest margin and income could be negatively affected. Failure to compete effectively to attract new or to retain existing clients may reduce or limit our net income and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth.