Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. According to the FDIC, as of June 30, 2014, we held 29.9% of the deposits in Henry County, Indiana, which was the second largest market share of deposits out of the six financial institutions that held deposits in this county. We also held 9.9% of the deposits in Hancock County, Indiana, which was the fourth largest market share of deposits out of the seven financial institutions that held deposits in this county. We also maintain offices in four other counties in which we held between 0.8% and 5.6% of the deposits in those counties as of June 30, 2014. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered barriers to entry, allowed banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Changes in federal law permit affiliation among banks, securities firms and insurance companies, which promotes a competitive environment in the financial services industry. Competition for deposits and the origination of loans could limit the Company’s growth in the future. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. 