Item 1A and elsewhere in this
Form 10-K. 

<A
NAME="dc1015_part_i"> 
 
PART I        

Item 1.    Business  

Overview  

        Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is the world's premier measurement company
providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. 


        We
currently have three primary businesses: 



•electronic
measurement;
•bio-analytical
measurement; and
•semiconductor
test solutions. 


        In
August 2005, the Board of Directors of Agilent approved the divestiture of our semiconductor products business. We subsequently signed an Asset Purchase Agreement with Avago
Technologies Ltd. (f/k/a Argos Acquisition Pte. Ltd.) ("Avago") providing for the sale of our semiconductor products business for approximately $2.66 billion. We have reflected
the semiconductor products business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In December 2005, we completed the sale of our
semiconductor products business to Avago. For further information, see Note 24, "Subsequent Events", to our consolidated financial statements. 

        Our
electronic measurement and semiconductor test solutions businesses focus on growth opportunities in the communications and electronics industries, while our
bio-analytical measurement business focuses on core business and growth opportunities in the life sciences industry and in the environmental, chemical, food and petrochemical industries. 

5




 


        We
sell our products primarily through direct sales, but we also utilize distributors, resellers, manufacturer's representatives, telesales and electronic commerce. Of our total net
revenue of $5.1 billion for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2005, we generated 35 percent in the United States ("U.S.") and 65 percent outside the U.S. As of
October 31, 2005, we employed approximately 21,000 people worldwide, excluding our former semiconductor products business employees. Our primary research, development and manufacturing sites
are in California, Colorado, Delaware and Washington in the U.S. and in China, Germany, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom ("U.K."). 

        Net
revenue for each of our businesses for the years ended October 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was: 




 
 
2005
 
2004
 
2003


 
 
(in millions) 


Electronic Measurement
 
$
3,265
 
$
3,225
 
$
2,746


Bio-analytical Measurement
 
 
1,421
 
 
1,333
 
 
1,186


Semiconductor Test Solutions
 
 
453
 
 
602
 
 
538


 
 

 

 



 
 Total Net Revenue
 
$
5,139
 
$
5,160
 
$
4,470


 
 

 

 






        More
financial information about our businesses is contained in Note 23, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements. 

Electronic Measurement Business  

        Our electronic measurement business provides standard and customized electronic measurement instruments and systems, monitoring, management and optimization tools
for communications networks and services, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics
equipment and communications networks and services. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We
also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. 

        Our
electronic measurement business employed approximately 11,500 people as of October 31, 2005. We sell our electronic measurement products through direct sales, distributors,
resellers, manufacturer's representatives, telesales and electronic commerce. Our electronic measurement business generated $3.3 billion in revenue in fiscal 2005, $3.2 billion in
revenue in fiscal 2004 and $2.7 billion in revenue in fiscal 2003. 



 Electronic Measurement Markets  



        Our electronic measurement products compete in the communications test market and the general purpose test market. 



 The Communications Test Market  



        We market our communications test products and services to handset manufacturers, Network Equipment Manufacturers ("NEMs") and communications service providers.
NEMs manufacture and sell products to facilitate the transmission of voice and data traffic. The NEMs' customers are the distributors of end-user subscriber devices, including cell
phones and personal digital assistants ("PDAs"), as well as communications service providers that deploy and operate the networks and services. To meet their customers' demands, NEMs require
test and measurement instruments, systems and solutions for the development, production and installation of each network technology. 

6




 

        Communications
service providers require reliable network equipment that enables their networks and services to operate at ever-faster speeds, permits an expanding capacity
and provides quick feedback. To achieve this, communications service providers require a range of sophisticated test instruments and systems to evaluate network performance and to identify any sources
of communications failure. 

        Agilent's
communications service provider customers require advanced software and systems, known as operations support systems ("OSS"), to monitor and manage the network infrastructure
and services on a continuous, proactive basis to achieve either regulated or customer-specified service levels. 



 The General Purpose Test Market  



        We market our general purpose test products and services to the electronics industry. The electronics industry designs, develops and manufactures a wide range of
products, including those produced in high volumes, such as computers, computer peripherals, electronic components, consumer electronics, enterprise servers, storage networks and communications
devices, including PDAs. The components, printed circuit assemblies and functional devices for these products may be designed, developed and manufactured by electronic components companies, by
original equipment manufacturers or by contract manufacturers. For the development and timely commercialization of new technologies, manufacturers require
state-of-the-art test instruments, systems and software design tools in order to design products for efficient and cost-effective manufacturing and to
validate product performance in a variety of configurations and
environments. They also demand automated functional test systems, which test an electronic device as if it were in use in its final environment. 

        We
also sell to the electronics manufacturing test markets, the parametric test markets and the flat panel display ("FPD") markets. Customers in these markets use our test equipment for
structural and electrical board assembly testing, wafer-level parametric testing, and inspection for printed circuit board assemblies and thin-film transistor ("TFT") array test for FPDs. 



 Electronic Measurement Products  



        We divide our electronic measurement products into communications test products and general purpose test products. 



 Communications Test Products  



        We sell communications test products and services for the following types of communications networks and systems: fiber optics networks, transport networks,
broadband and data networks, wireless communications and microwave networks. In addition, we provide assistance with installation and maintenance of our products and OSS. 

        Our
fiber optic network test products include optical signal instruments, spectrum analysis instruments and lightwave optical systems, such as optical amplifier test, passive component
test and jitter test instruments, tunable laser sources, multi-wavelength meters, photonic all-parameter testers and high-speed bit-error rate testers that measure
key transmission properties of high-speed optical and electrical signals. 

        Our
broadband and data network test products include our Network Analyzer and Router Testers. Our Network Analyzer product line helps to troubleshoot high-speed local area
networks, wide area networks and asynchronous transfer mode networks. 

7




 


        Our
wireless communications and microwave network products include RF and microwave test instruments and Electronic Design Automation ("EDA") software tools, which assist in the design
and production of cellular handsets and base stations, as well as satellite and aerospace defense systems. 

        Our
installation and maintenance assistance facilitates the installation, commission and activation of networks and services. We have a breadth of products for troubleshooting and
maintaining optical, wireless, wireline and large-company networks. 

        Our
OSS products manage performance and quality of service for broadband, data, wireless and converged networks and services. 



 General Purpose Test Products  



        We sell the following types of products into the general purpose test market: general purpose instruments, modular instruments and test software, digital design
products, parametric test products, high frequency electronic design tools, electronics manufacturing test equipment and TFT array test equipment. 


        General
purpose instruments are used principally by engineers in research and development laboratories, manufacturing, calibration and service for measuring voltage, current, frequency,
signal pulse width and other standard electronics measurements and include spectrum analyzers, network analyzers, signal generators, digitizing oscilloscopes, voltmeters, multimeters, frequency
counters, bench and system power supplies, function generators and waveform synthesizers. 

        Modular
instruments and test software are used to dynamically configure and reconfigure test systems for designers and manufacturers of electronic devices and include products such as
Agilent's IO Library, Agilent's VEE Pro 7.5 and the Test & Measurement Programmers Toolkit. 


        Our
digital design products are used by research and development engineers in the computer, communications and semiconductor industries for validating and verifying the performance of
digital product designs and include simple digital control circuits, complex high-speed servers incorporating the latest microprocessor technology, high-performance
oscilloscopes, logic analyzers, logic-signal sources and data generators. 

        Our
high-frequency electronic design automation software tools are used by RF integrated circuit design engineers to model, simulate and analyze communications product
designs at the circuit and system levels. The main products in this area are the Advanced Design System, the RF Design Environment and the IC-CAP Device Modeling Software. Each is a
well-established software platform within the wireless and the aerospace and defense design industries. Our customers are also applying this technology more frequently to model signal
integrity problems in digital design applications. 

        Our
parametric test instruments and systems combine hardware technology and customizable system software and are used to examine semiconductor wafers during the semiconductor
manufacturing process. 

        Our
electronic manufacturing test product categories are Automated Optical Inspection Products that enable automated visual inspection of printed circuit assemblies, Automated
X-ray Inspection Products that provide a three-dimensional scan of printed circuit board assemblies to identify and isolate quality defects caused by the manufacturing process, Automated
In-Circuit Testing Products that identify quality defects such as bad and incorrect parts that affect electrical performance and allow early repair of these defects, and Manufacturing Test
System Software that provides common 

8




 


tools
to enable customers to use information across the manufacturing line for effective process control, repair and test design. 

        Our
TFT array tester products provide FPD manufacturers with test solutions in the rapidly growing FPD market. An array tester can provide significant cost savings by detecting defects
early in the process of manufacturing FPDs. 



 Electronic Measurement Customers  



        Agilent's electronic measurement customers include contract manufactures, handset manufacturers, NEMs who design, develop, manufacture and install network
equipment, and service providers who implement, maintain and manage communication networks and services. We also engage in collaborative relationships with contract manufacturers. Many of our
customers purchase solutions across several of our major product lines for their different business units. As of the end of fiscal 2005, no single customer represented greater than 10 percent
of the net revenue of the business. 

        The
orders and revenues in many of the electronic measurement businesses are seasonal, with our fourth quarter traditionally bringing larger volumes of business and our first quarter
generally showing reduced volumes. This is especially true of products that we sell in the aerospace and defense industry as well as those that are linked to consumer spending, including some of our
communications test equipment. However, the seasonal impact is tempered by the diversity of the electronic measurement business's products and customers, which span multiple industries. 



 Electronic Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support  



        We have a focused sales strategy, using a direct sales force, resellers, manufacturer's representatives and distributors to strengthen customer satisfaction. Our
direct sales force is focused on identifying customer needs and recommending solutions involving the effective use and deployment of our equipment, services, systems and capabilities. Some members of
our direct sales force focus on global accounts, providing uniform services on a worldwide basis. Others focus on our more complex products such as our OSS communications monitoring and management
systems, where customers require intensive strategic consultation. Our sales force also specifically targets the contract manufacturer market by collaborating with original equipment manufacturers to
specify that contract manufacturers use our test equipment, as well as marketing to contract manufacturers directly. 

        Our
direct sales force consists of field engineers and systems engineers who have in-depth knowledge of the customers' business and technology needs. Our systems engineers
provide a combination of consulting, systems integration and application and software engineering services and are instrumental in all stages of the sale, implementation and support of our complex
systems and solutions. 

        To
complement our direct sales force we have agreements with many channel partners around the world. These partners, including resellers, manufacturer's representatives, and
distributors, serve Agilent's customers across a number of product lines and provide the same level of service and support expected from our direct channel. Our products come with clearly outlined
warranties and extended warranties available for an additional cost. 



 Electronic Measurement Manufacturing  



        We concentrate our electronic measurement manufacturing efforts primarily on final assembly and test of our products. To maximize our productivity and our ability
to respond to market conditions, we use contract manufacturers for the production of printed circuit boards, sheet metal fabrication, metal die-casting, plastic molding and standard
electronic components. We also 

9




 

manufacture
proprietary devices and assemblies, in our own fabrication facilities for competitive advantage. 

        We
generally only manufacture products when we have received firm orders for delivery and do not generally hold large stocks of finished inventory. 



 Electronic Measurement Competition  



        The market for electronic measurement equipment is highly competitive. Our electronic measurement business competes with a number of significant competitors in
all our major product categories and across our targeted industries. In the general purpose test market, we compete against companies such as Fluke Corporation (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation),
Keithley Instruments, Inc., LeCroy Corporation, National Instruments Corporation and Tektronix, Inc. In the electronics manufacturing test market, we compete primarily against
Teradyne, Inc. In the FPD test market, we compete against Photon Dynamics, Inc., Applied Komatsu Technologies and Shimadzu Corporation for large-panel test customers, and primarily with
Wintest Corp. in emerging FPD technologies. In the communications test market our primary competitors are Acterna Corporation, Aeroflex Incorporated, Anritsu Corporation, EXFO Electro-Optical
Engineering, Inc., Ixia, Marconi Corporation plc, Rohde & Schwartz GmbH & Co. KG, Spirent plc and Tektronix, Inc. In addition, we compete with Telcordia
Technologies, Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP") in the communications test market. In the communications management and monitoring market our primary competitors are Spirent plc,
Tektronix, Inc. and Micromuse, Inc. Our EDA business also has several software competitors, including Ansoft Corporation, APLAC Solutions Corporation, Applied Wave Research, Inc.
and Xpedion Design Systems, Inc. 

        Our
electronic measurement business offers a wide range of products, and these products compete primarily on the basis of product quality and functionality, as well as performance and
reliability. 

Bio-Analytical Measurement Business  

        Our bio-analytical measurement business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that
enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our seven key product categories include: microarrays, microfluidics, gas
chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, software and informatics, and related consumables, reagents and services. 

        We
employed approximately 4,000 people as of October 31, 2005 in our bio-analytical measurement business. This business generated revenue of $1.4 billion in
fiscal 2005, $1.3 billion in fiscal 2004 and $1.2 billion in fiscal 2003. 



 Bio-Analytical Measurement Markets  



        Primarily, our bio-analytical measurement business serves the following markets: 



 Life Sciences Markets  



        Our life science markets account for approximately 42 percent of revenue from our bio-analytical measurement business. Within the life
sciences, we focus on the following areas: pharmaceutical analysis (drug development, manufacturing and quality assurance/quality control), gene expression and proteomics. 


                The Pharmaceutical Analysis Market.    Pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies
develop and manufacture drugs under
strict regulatory guidelines. We provide liquid chromatography, 

10




 


gas
chromatography and mass spectrometry solutions for the analysis of chemicals, and provide compliance services and data systems designed to further enable compliance with relevant regulations of
the Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory agencies. 


                The Gene Expression Market.    Gene expression researchers use microarrays to measure the
activity levels of many genes in a
cell simultaneously for the purpose of understanding and characterizing disease, identifying drug targets and identifying patterns of gene activity that correlate to the potential toxicity or
effectiveness of a drug. Currently, this is a double-digit growth market in which our microarray, microfluidics and informatics solutions are sold. 

                The Proteomics Market.    Proteomics is a growing field with the goal of identifying,
characterizing and analyzing proteins on
a high-volume scale. Proteomics is also important to the large-scale manufacture of protein-based therapies in development by biotechnology companies. This is a double-digit growth market
in which we provide liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry and informatics. 



 Chemical Analysis Markets  



        Our chemical analysis markets account for approximately 58 percent of revenue from the bio-analytical measurement business. Within chemical
analysis, we focus primarily on the following areas: petrochemical, environmental, homeland security and forensics, and bioagriculture and food safety. 


                The Petrochemical Market.    The natural gas and petroleum refining markets use our
products to measure and control the quality
of their finished products and to verify the environmental safety of their operations. Petroleum refiners use our measurement solutions to analyze crude oil composition, perform raw material analysis,
verify and improve refining processes and ensure the overall quality of gasoline, fuels, lubricants and other products. Our gas chromatographs are also used to monitor consistent quality in the
delivery of natural gas. 

                The Environmental Market.    Our gas chromatography, liquid chromatography and mass
spectrometry solutions are used by the
environmental market for applications such as laboratory and field analysis of chemical pollutants in air, water, soil and solid waste. Environmental
industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories and colleges and universities. We
are seeing strong international demand for environmental instrumentation in the Asia-Pacific region. 


                The Homeland Security and Forensics Market.    Our liquid chromatography, gas
chromatography, mass spectrometry and
microfluidics solutions are used by health and forensics laboratories in the U.S. and abroad, particularly in the analysis of evidence associated with crime or with the detection and identification of
biological and chemical warfare agents. This instrumentation is either used in static or mobile laboratories. Customers include local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies and
health laboratories. 

                The Bioagriculture and Food Safety Market.    Food safety industries apply the same general
technologies for chemical analysis
as the pharmaceutical and environmental markets, including gas and liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. Additionally, bioagriculture industries seek to improve crops and foods by conducting
research on these organisms, as well as testing for genetically modified content, using microarray and microfluidics solutions. 

11




 



 Bio-Analytical Measurement Products  



        A key factor in all of our bio-analytical measurement target markets is the need for new products that increase customer productivity and provide high
quality data that enable decision-making by our customers. 



 Microarray Products  



        Since announcing the launch of our DNA microarray program for the life sciences in December 1999, we have become the second leading supplier of microarray
solutions which we sell primarily to pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and academia. Using our refined inkjet manufacturing process, we make highly sensitive 60-mer
oligonucleotide ("oligo") microarrays. This unique inkjet process is highly flexible and accurate, enabling the faster manufacture of new and custom high-density microarrays. In 2005, we
expanded our line of microarrays to offer genomics solutions for chromosome analysis and gene regulation. 



 Microfluidics Products  



        The Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer is the first commercial microfluidics product for the analysis of a wide range of biological molecules, including DNA, RNA, proteins
and cells. The bioanalyzer chips allow sample quality assessment to be done in a fraction of the usual time using fewer samples and reagents than traditional gel electrophoresis. We also provide
related software, which enables the bioanalyzer to be used for the development and manufacture of protein-based therapeutics and, also enables standardization of RNA quality measurement. In
November 2004, Agilent introduced the first fully automated, high-throughput lab-on-a-chip system, which will enable unattended analysis of
thousands of DNA or protein samples per day. 



 Gas Chromatography Products  



        Agilent is the world's leading provider of gas chromatographs, both portable and stationary. A gas chromatograph ("GC") is used to separate any gas, liquid or
solid molecules that can be vaporized in order to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. As a market leader in gas chromatography, we continue to expand its applications with
new columns and supplies, as well as product enhancements. Over the last three years, Agilent has introduced improved models of all of its major gas chromatographs. 



 Liquid Chromatography Products  



        A liquid chromatograph ("LC") or a high performance liquid chromatograph ("HPLC") is used to separate molecules of a liquid mixture to determine the quantity and
identity of the molecules present. Used when gas chromatography is not an option, these instruments are modular in construction and can be configured to form instruments that perform specific
analyses. Agilent's HPLC system, the Agilent 1100 Series, has sold over 60,000 systems since its introduction. As a leader in liquid chromatography, we continue to expand its applications with new LC
and HPLC columns and provide ongoing product enhancements. Our latest innovation, HPLC-Chip, facilitates more than a 3000-fold improvement in sensitivity. 



 Mass Spectrometry Products  



        A mass spectrometer ("MS") identifies and quantifies chemicals based on a chemical's molecular mass and on characteristic patterns of fragment masses that result
when a molecule is broken apart. Mass spectrometry is an important tool in analyzing proteins and other biological entities that undergo transformations because it enables the understanding and
characterization of their many different states. MS systems are typically used in combination with gas or liquid chromatographs. In the past three years, Agilent significantly expanded its mass
spectrometry portfolio with a focus on ease of use, 

12




 

sensitivity
and reliability. New products include several ion trap and time-of-flight mass spectrometers, a multimode ion source and a range of instrument control and data
analysis software packages. 



 Software and Informatics Products  



        We provide software for instrument control, data acquisition and analysis, laboratory content and business process management, and informatics. Our software
facilitates the regulatory-compliant use of instruments in pharmaceutical quality assurance/quality control environments. In 2005, we completed acquisition of Scientific Software, Inc. and
Silicon Genetics, Inc., expanding our portfolio of chromatography data systems and informatics. 



 Consumables, Reagents and Services  



        We also offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our LC, GC and MS technology platforms. These consumable products include chemical and
biological reagents, instrument replacement parts, brand-specific chromatography columns and consumable supplies to meet our customers' analysis needs. All of our products, which include generic and
proprietary supplies, are designed to work together. 

        We
offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our measurement and data handling systems. Our support services include all of our chemical
and bioinstrumentation analysis hardware and software maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific analysis instrument needs
of various industries. 



 Bio-Analytical Measurement Customers  



        Our top 25 customers account for approximately 24 percent of revenue within our bio-analytical measurement businesses. We have roughly 21,000
customers, and as of the end of fiscal 2005, no single customer represented greater than 10 percent of the net revenue of the business. 


        The
bio-analytical measurement business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. government and large pharmaceutical company budgets.
The result is that our first and fourth fiscal quarters tend to deliver the strongest profits for this group. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might
overshadow this trend in any given year. 



 Bio-Analytical Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support  



        Our sales and support delivery channels are aligned by key markets. We market products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers,
manufacturers' representatives and distributors. Additionally, we are optimizing our worldwide distribution capabilities to address high-growth opportunities such as the environmental,
food safety and pharmaceutical markets in the Asia-Pacific region. 

        We
use direct sales to market our solutions to all of our pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical accounts, large- and medium-sized chemical customers and environmental accounts. Sales
agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our
customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales and electronic commerce. 


        We
deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and
self-diagnostic services provided 

13




 


over
the Internet. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs of hydrocarbon processing, environmental, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical
customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. 



 Bio-Analytical Measurement Manufacturing  



        Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make
standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use third parties to provide
manufacturing capabilities outside our core competencies, such as the manufacture of printed circuit assemblies and the delivery of shipment logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California
and Delaware in the U.S., China, Germany and Japan. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing and so typically do not maintain a high level of inventory. Our products typically
come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. 



 Bio-Analytical Measurement Competition  



        The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in
the life sciences arena include: Affymetrix, Inc., Applied Biosystems Inc., GE Healthcare, Invitrogen Corp., Thermo Electron Corp. and Waters Corp. Our principal competitors in the
chemical analysis arena include: Applied Biosystems Inc., Perkin Elmer Corp., Shimadzu Corporation, Thermo Electron Corp. and Varian, Inc. Agilent competes on the basis of price, product
performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise and global channel coverage. 



 Bio-Analytical Measurement Government Regulation  



        The analysis products and related consumables marketed by our chemical analysis business are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the Environmental Protection
Agency ("EPA") under the Toxic Substances Control Act and by government agencies in other countries under similar laws. The Toxic Substances Control Act regulations govern, among other things, the
testing, manufacture, processing and distribution of chemicals, the testing of regulated chemicals for their effects on human health and safety and import and export of chemicals. The Toxic Substances
Control Act prohibits persons from manufacturing any chemical in the U.S. that has not been reviewed by EPA for its effect on health and safety, and placed on an EPA inventory of chemical substances.
Therefore, we must continually adapt our chemical analysis products to changing regulations. If we fail to comply with the notification, record-keeping and other requirements in the manufacture or
distribution of our products, the EPA can obtain an order from a court that would prohibit the further distribution or marketing of a product that does not comply or we could face fines, civil
penalties or criminal prosecution. 

Semiconductor Test Solutions Business  

        Agilent's semiconductor test solutions business delivers technologies and solutions for companies who design, manufacture and test
systems-on-a-chip ("SOCs"), systems-in-a-package ("SIPs") and memory semiconductor devices. Our systems are used to test a wide
range of devices, from the extremely price-sensitive to the most complex and high-performance. 


        On
August 15, 2005, Agilent announced a strategic move that includes a plan to spin off the semiconductor test solutions business, which operates in the SOC, SIP and Memory Test
markets. This business will become a new automated test company focused on technology and innovation in semiconductor test. The spin-off will take place as soon as practical in 2006 and
entails separating the semiconductor test solutions business from Agilent, then launching an IPO process. The expected IPO 

14




 


date
of our semiconductor test solutions spin-off is near mid-year 2006, with an expected completion date for the spin-off by the end of fiscal year 2006. 

        During
the fourth quarter of 2005, we realigned our operating segments, creating the semiconductor test solutions business, formerly included within our automated test business. The
remainder of the automated test business is currently reported in our electronic measurement business. Our semiconductor test solutions business employed approximately 1,600 people as of
October 31, 2005. We sell our semiconductor test solutions through direct sales. Our semiconductor test solutions business generated $0.5 billion in revenue in fiscal 2005,
$0.6 billion in revenue in fiscal 2004, and $0.5 billion in revenue in fiscal 2003. 



 Semiconductor Test Solutions Markets  



        Agilent's semiconductor test solutions business sells to the semiconductor manufacturing markets. Customers in these markets use our equipment for
wafer-sort and final sort for memory test, and package-level functional and structural test. In general, market demand for semiconductor test solutions' equipment is driven both by changes
in the volume of semiconductor devices produced and by developments in semiconductor performance and function, packaging and assembly technology. 

        In
the semiconductor manufacturing market, the development of increasingly faster and more complex semiconductor devices stimulates demand for testers capable of evaluating these
high-speed devices. The continuing integration of functions, such as microprocessor, logic, analog, RF and logic, application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") and memory on a single
integrated circuit or single package has created the SOC and SIP product categories. Similarly, vertical stacking of both similar and different types of memory chips has created a category of memory
package, the complex multi-chip package ("MCP"). 



 Semiconductor Test Solutions Products  



        Our semiconductor test solutions business designs, develops and manufactures semiconductor test equipment. We develop our products on scalable-system architecture
and then deliver, over time, enhancements to that architecture that extend its testing capabilities to address changing device and production requirements. 



 Semiconductor Test Equipment  



        We produce semiconductor test equipment to perform electrical functional testing and structural testing of logic, memory, mixed analog and digital signal, RF,
microwave, SOC and SIP integrated circuits. In addition, we provide applications, service and support for our test equipment. 

        Our
semiconductor test equipment tests a variety of different circuit types. We test both at the wafer level and at final assembly. We are an industry leader in wafer-sort
test solutions for flash memory devices, which retain data even when the power is turned off and that are used in digital cameras, cellular phones, PDAs and storage of portable digital audio files.
Our flash memory test products can test multiple devices in parallel, and with a single test insertion can test complex memory packages including different memory types. Our SOC/SIP test system can
test not only multiple devices at a time but also multiple functional elements on a given device at the same time. As a result of its scalable architecture, this system can be field-upgraded to the
latest technology without the customer needing to buy a new system or shut down the production line for an extended time. 



 Semiconductor Test Solutions Customers  



        Agilent's semiconductor test solutions customers include many of the world's leading high-technology firms. Our semiconductor test solutions enable
our customers to speed their time to 

15




 

market
and achieve volume production and high-quality precision manufacturing. More than half of the business' net revenue is generated from outside the U.S. 


        Many
of our customers purchase solutions across our major product lines for their different business units. Generally, our customers are involved in producing digital consumer and
wireless products, computation, personal computers and related peripherals, wireline communications, or enterprise networking and storage. As of the end of fiscal 2005, no single customer represented
greater than 10 percent of the net revenue of the business. 

        We
also engage in collaborative, co-development relationships with electronics industry leaders and sub-contract manufacturers. 

        The
back-to-school and holiday seasons affect our semiconductor test business to the extent that we are subject to the cycles of consumer electronics
manufacturing. Our customers include manufacturers who produce a wide range of consumer electronics equipment requiring the test of semiconductors. 



 Semiconductor Test Solutions Sales, Marketing and Support  



        Our semiconductor test solutions business' products are distributed using direct sales. Some portions of the direct sales force provide general services around
the world, while others provide specialized consultation services for particular segments of the semiconductor test business. 



 Semiconductor Test Solutions Manufacturing  



        Our semiconductor test solutions business has manufacturing facilities in Germany, the U.S. and Japan and contract manufacturing relationships in Europe, Asia,
Japan and the U.S. We do not maintain a high level of finished goods inventory, due to a combination of product platform strategy and outsourcing. 



 Semiconductor Test Solutions Competition  



        The market for semiconductor test solutions is highly competitive. In the semiconductor test solutions market, we compete mostly against Advantest Corp.,
Teradyne, Inc., Credence Systems Corp. and LTX Corp. 

        Most
of our equipment competes primarily on performance or differentiated capabilities. Other contributing factors include cost of test, sensitivity, speed, reliability and yield. 


Agilent Technologies Laboratories ("Agilent Labs")  

        Agilent Labs is our central research organization based in Palo Alto, California, with satellite offices in Beijing, China; Everett, Washington; Leuven, Belgium;
and South Queensferry, Scotland. Agilent Labs engages primarily in two types of research: 1) applied research that leads to technology that can be transferred to our existing businesses in
communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis, and 2) research that creates new businesses that are outside of our current markets but within our fields of interest. Agilent
Labs also provides technology integration across our company. 

        Agilent
Labs employs approximately 220 people. Agilent Labs' technical staff have advanced degrees that cover a wide range of scientific fields, such as biology, bioinformatics,
chemistry, computer science, distributed measurement, electrical engineering, image processing, materials science, mathematics, measurement software, optics, physics, physiology, semiconductor device
design and signal processing. 

16






<A
NAME="page_de1015_1_17">   
        The following discussions of Research and Development, Backlog, Intellectual Property, Materials, Environmental, International Operations and Acquisition and
Disposal of Material Assets include information common to all three of our businesses.


Research and Development  

        Research and development ("R&D") expenditures were $738 million in 2005, $689 million in 2004 and $771 million in 2003, the vast majority of
which was company-sponsored. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuing flow of innovative,
high-quality products and services. 

Backlog  

        We believe that backlog orders are not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects. Backlog, as we define it, generally only represents cumulative
outstanding orders that are scheduled for delivery within a six-month period. Therefore backlog is not a material indicator of our future medium- to long-term business
prospects. We believe that our incoming orders in any given period are more indicative of short-term revenue trends for our businesses. See "Results of Continuing Operations" in Item 7 of
this report. 

Intellectual Property  

        Our general policy has been to seek patent and other intellectual property protection for those inventions and improvements likely to be incorporated into our
products and services or to give us a competitive advantage. While we believe that our licenses, patents and applications have value, in general no single patent or license is in itself material. In
addition, there can be no assurance that any of our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that our rights will provide significant competitive advantages. 

Materials  

        Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies and raw materials such as plastic resins and
sheet metal. Each of our segments purchases materials from thousands of suppliers on a global basis. No single supplier is material, although some of the parts that require custom design work are not
readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Our long-term relationships with our suppliers allow us to
proactively manage technology road maps and product discontinuance plans and monitor their financial health. Even so, some suppliers may still extend their lead times, limit supplies, increase prices
or cease to produce necessary parts for our products. If these are unique components, we may not be able to find a substitute quickly or at all. To address the potential disruption in our supply
chain, we use a number of techniques, including qualifying multiple sources of supply, redesign of products for alternative components and purchase of incremental inventory for supply buffer. 

Environmental  

        Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws
governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and worker health and safety to sites inside and outside the U.S., even if not subject to
regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and worker health and
safety laws. However, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws to Agilent
will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and 

17




 


local
laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. These laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may in the future cause us to incur significant expenditures. 

        Some
of our operations are located on properties that are known to have subsurface contamination undergoing remediation by HP. As part of our spin-off from HP in 1999, HP has
agreed to retain the liability for the contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of the contamination. The determination of the existence and
cost of any additional contamination caused by us could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. While we expect that HP will meet its remediation and indemnification
obligations in this regard, there can be no
guarantee that it will do so. Under our agreement with HP, HP will have access to these properties to perform the remediation. HP has agreed to minimize interference with on-site
operations at those properties during the course of the remediation, but there can be no guarantee that our operations will not be interrupted or that we will not be required to incur unreimbursed
costs associated with the remediation. Remediation could also harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. 

        In
addition, some of these properties are undergoing remediation by HP under an order of an agency of the state in which the property is located. Although HP has agreed to indemnify us
with respect to that subsurface contamination, it is possible that one or more of the governmental agencies will require us to be named on any of these orders. The naming of Agilent will not affect
HP's obligation to indemnify us with regard to these matters. 

        We
are liable and are indemnifying HP for any contamination found at all facilities transferred to us by HP excluding the properties undergoing remediation. In addition, we are
indemnifying HP for any liability associated with past non-compliance with environmental laws regulating ongoing operations at all properties transferred to us by HP, as well as at sold or
discontinued businesses that are related to our businesses. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with such indemnified matters, there is no guarantee that such contamination
or regulatory non-compliance does not exist, and will not expose us to material liability in the future. 

        We
are being indemnified by HP with respect to all environmental liabilities for which HP accrued a reserve, and we are not aware of any material and probable environmental liabilities
being assumed by us which are not subject to the indemnity. 

International Operations  

        Our net revenue originating outside the U.S., as a percentage of our total net revenue, was approximately 65 percent in fiscal 2005, 66 percent in
fiscal 2004 and 62 percent in fiscal 2003, the majority of which was from customers other than foreign governments. Approximately 13 percent of our annual revenues in each of the last
three years was derived from Japan. Revenues from external customers are generally attributed to countries based upon the location of the Agilent sales representative. 

        Long-lived
assets located outside of the U.S., as a percentage of our total long-lived assets, was approximately 50 percent in fiscal year 2005,
54 percent in fiscal year 2004 and 46 percent in fiscal year 2003. Approximately 17 percent of our long-lived assets were located in Japan in fiscal year 2005 and 2004
and approximately 15 percent were located in Japan in fiscal year 2003. 


        Most
of our sales in international markets are made by foreign sales subsidiaries. In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and distributors.
However, we also sell into international markets directly from the U.S. 

18




 

        Our
international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished
goods to our customers, changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, consequences from changes in
tax laws and regulatory requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor regulations, differing protection of intellectual property and geopolitical turmoil,
including terrorism and war. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales and expenses, and assets and liabilities denominated in
currencies other than the local functional currency, and may also become subject to interest rate risk inherent in any debt we incur, or investment and finance receivable portfolios we hold. The U.S.
and international response to recent terrorist activities could exacerbate these risks. For example, there may be an increased risk of political unrest in regions where we have significant
manufacturing operations such as Southeast Asia. However, we believe that our international diversification provides stability to our worldwide operations and reduces the impact on us of adverse
economic changes in any single country. Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 23, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements. 

Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets  

        On January 5, 2001, we acquired Objective Systems Integrators, Inc. ("OSI") for approximately $716 million. OSI was a provider of
next-generation operations-support-system software for communications service providers and has become part of our test and measurement business. In January 2000, April 2000
and January 2001, we acquired Yokogawa Electric Corporation's 25 percent equity interest in Agilent Technologies Japan, Ltd. for approximately $521 million. In addition to
the OSI and Yokogawa acquisitions, we acquired several other companies since our incorporation that were not material. 

        In
the fourth quarter of 2000, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with CIT Group Inc. ("CIT," formerly Tyco Capital Corporation) to sell them substantially all of our
leasing portfolio over the course of 2000 and 2001. We also entered into a vendor financing arrangement with CIT whereby CIT will provide equipment financing and leasing services to our customers on a
global basis. 

        In
February 2001, we sold a parcel of surplus land in San Jose, California for $287 million in cash. On August 1, 2001, Agilent completed the sale of its healthcare
solutions business to Koninklijke Philips Electronics, N.V. ("Philips") pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement for a total purchase price of $1.7 billion. 

        On
November 28, 2005, we completed the sale of our stake in Lumileds Lighting International, B.V. ("Lumileds") to Philips pursuant to a Share Purchase Agreement (the "Share
Purchase Agreement") dated as of August 12, 2005 among Agilent, Agilent LED International, Philips Lumileds Holding B.V. and Philips. Under the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement, Agilent
received $948.5 million in cash proceeds, as well as approximately $51 million in repayment of outstanding advances to Lumileds and interest due to Agilent. 

        In
December 2005, we completed the sale of substantially all the assets of our semiconductor products business to Avago pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of
August 14, 2005 and amended November 30, 2005 (the "Asset Purchase Agreement"). Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, Agilent received approximately $2.6 billion in
cash proceeds, subject to further adjustment based on transfer taxes, a determination of working capital at closing and other items as further detailed in the Asset Purchase Agreement. 

19




 


Executive Officers of the Registrant  

        The names of our executive officers and their ages, titles and biographies as of January 17, 2006 appear below: 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Edward W. Barnholt, 62, served as Agilent's Chairman Emeritus from March 1, 2005 until October 31, 2005. Prior to assuming
this position, Mr. Barnholt served as Agilent's President and Chief Executive Officer and as a director from May 1999 to March 1, 2005, and as Chairman of the Board from
November 2002 to March 1, 2005. Before being named Agilent's Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Barnholt served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of Hewlett-Packard
Company's Measurement Organization from 1998 to 1999, which included the business organizations that have become Agilent. From 1990 to 1998, he served as General Manager of Hewlett-Packard Company's
Test and Measurement Organization. He was elected a Senior Vice President of Hewlett-Packard Company in 1993 and an Executive Vice President in 1996. He is a director of KLA-Tencor
Corporation, Adobe and eBay Corporation and is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Packard Foundation. 


        <FONT
SIZE=2>Patrick J. Byrne, 45, has served as our Senior Vice President and President of the Electronic Measurement Group since
February 2005. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Byrne served as Vice President and General Manager for Electronic Products and Solutions Group's Wireless Business Unit from
September 2001 to February 2005. Mr. Byrne served as Vice President for Electronic Products and Solutions Group's Product Generation Units from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Byrne held
a number of management positions at Hewlett-Packard Company and Agilent Technologies, Inc. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Dick M. Chang, 66, served as our Senior Vice President, New Business Development from October 2003 until December 2005, and
as President of the Semiconductor Products Group from March 2005 until December 2005. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Chang served as Vice President and General Manager of
Networking Solutions Division form 1999 to March 2002. During 1998, Mr. Chang served as the General Manager of Communications Semiconductor Solutions Division of Hewlett-Packard
and later that year assumed the same position for the Integrated Circuit Business Division of Hewlett-Packard. Mr. Chang joined Hewlett-Packard in 1967 as a member of Hewlett-Packard Labs
technical staff and, over the years, held a variety of managerial positions within Hewlett-Packard. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>David B. Cooper, Jr., 49, has served as our Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer since April 2005. Prior to joining
Agilent, Mr. Cooper served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of QRS Corporation from November 2003 to November 2004. He served as Chief Financial Officer and
Chief Operating Officer of Avantgo, Inc. from August 2000 to February 2003. Mr. Cooper served as Chief Financial Officer of Powerbar, Inc. from August 1998 to
May 2000. Mr. Cooper held a number of finance and management positions at various companies since 1978. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Adrian T. Dillon, 51, has served as our Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer since
December 2001. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Dillon served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Planning Officer of Eaton Corporation from April 1997 to
December 2001. Mr. Dillon held various management positions at Eaton Corporation from 1979 to 1997. Mr. Dillon is a member of the board of directors of
Williams-Sonoma, Inc. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Jean M. Halloran, 53, has served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since August 1999. From 1997 to 1999,
Ms. Halloran served as Director of Corporate Education and Development for Hewlett-Packard. Prior to assuming this position, from 1993 to 1997, Ms. Halloran acted as human resources
manager for Hewlett-Packard's Measurement Systems Organization. Ms. Halloran joined Hewlett-Packard in 1980 in the Medical Products Group, where she held a variety of positions in human
resources, manufacturing and strategic planning. 

20




 


        <FONT
SIZE=2>Didier Hirsch, 54, has served as our Vice President and Corporate Controller since April 2003. Prior to assuming that position,
Mr. Hirsch served as Vice President and Treasurer from September 1999 to April 2003. In 1996, Mr. Hirsch became Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett-Packard
Europe, Middle East, and Africa. In 1993, Mr. Hirsch became Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett-Packard Asia Pacific. Mr. Hirsch joined Hewlett-Packard Company in 1989 as
Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett-Packard France. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>D. Craig Nordlund, 56, was named our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in May 1999 and serves as an officer or
director for a variety of Agilent subsidiaries. He is also a director of the Addison Avenue Federal Credit Union. Mr. Nordlund served as Associate General Counsel and Secretary of
Hewlett-Packard Company from 1987 to 1999. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>William P. Sullivan, 56, has served as Agilent's President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director since March 2005. Before being
named as Agilent's Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sullivan served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from March 2002 to March 2005. In that capacity, he shared
the responsibilities of the president's office with Agilent's former President and Chief Executive Officer, Edward W. Barnholt. Mr. Sullivan also had overall responsibility for Agilent's
Electronic Products and Solutions Group, the company's largest business group. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Sullivan served as our Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group
from August 1999 to March 2002. Before that, Mr. Sullivan held various management positions at Hewlett-Packard Company. Mr. Sullivan serves on the Board of the Children's
Discovery Museum in San Jose, California. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Jack P. Trautman, 55, has served as Senior Vice President of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and President of the Automated Test Group
(now the Semiconductor Test Solutions business) since May 2002. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Trautman served as Vice President and General Manager of the Communications
Management Solutions Business Unit from 2001 to 2002. He served as General Manager of the Data Protection Unit of Hewlett-Packard Company from 2000 to 2001. Mr. Trautman was the General Manager
of Hewlett-Packard's Computer Peripherals Bristol Division in Bristol, England from 1997 to 2000. Mr. Trautman joined Hewlett-Packard in 1974 and held a number of managerial positions over the
years. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Chris van Ingen, 59, has served as Senior Vice President of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and President of the Life Sciences and
Chemical Analysis Group since May 2001. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Van Ingen held a number of positions at Hewlett-Packard Company including, Chemical Analysis Group Sales and
Marketing Manager from 1996 to April 2001, the Americas Marketing Center Manager from 1989 to 1996, Product Marketing Manager at Little Falls Division from 1986 to 1989, and Sales Support
Manager at Little Falls Division from 1984 to 1986. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Thomas E. White, 48, has served as Senior Vice President of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and President of the Operations Support
Systems Group since August 1999. From 1997 to August 1999, Mr. White served as Vice President and General Manager of the Communications Solutions Group of Hewlett-Packard. From
1996 to 1997, he served as General Manager of Hewlett-Packard Company's Computer Peripherals Bristol Division and, beginning in 1994, he served as General
Manager for Hewlett-Packard's Telecommunications Systems Division, South Queensferry, Scotland. 


Investor Information  

        We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy
statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of
the SEC at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an 

21





 


Internet
site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 

        You
can access financial and other information at our Investor Relations website. The address is www.investor.agilent.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. 


        Our
Amended and Restated Corporate Governance Standards, the charters of our Audit and Finance Committee, our Compensation Committee, our Executive Committee and our Nominating/Corporate
Governance Committee, as well as our Standards of Business Conduct (including code of ethics provisions that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, controller and
senior financial officers) are available on our website at www.investor.agilent.com under "Corporate Governance Policies". These items are also available in print to any stockholder in the United
States and Canada who requests them by calling (877) 942-4200. This information is also available by writing to the Company at the address on the cover of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. 

Item 1A.    Risk Factors  

Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Future Results  



 Our operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated.  



        Visibility into our markets is limited. Our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the
quarter, which are difficult to forecast. In addition, our revenues and earnings forecast for future quarters are often based on the expected seasonality or cyclicality of our markets. However, the
markets we serve do not always experience the seasonality or cyclicality that we expect. Any decline in our customers' markets or in general economic conditions would likely result in a reduction in
demand for our products and services. For example, if the Asia Pacific market does not grow as anticipated, our results could suffer. In addition, we have not yet completed our proposed
spin-off of our SOC and memory test businesses, which are directly influenced by changes in the semiconductor market. Since the broader semiconductor market is one of the drivers for our
electronic measurement business, a continued decrease in the semiconductor market could harm our electronic measurement business. Also, if our customers' markets decline, we may not be able to collect
on outstanding amounts due to us. Such decline could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability.
Also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. Since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, research and development and
manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough these pricing pressures could further reduce our gross margins. Finally, we may be required to secure additional debt or equity
financing at some time in the future, and we cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms when required. If our corporate credit rating is downgraded, we could be
required to pay a higher interest rate for future borrowing needs and we may have stricter terms. 



 The actions we are taking to focus our organization on our core businesses may cause disruption and increase expenses, which may affect our results of operations or financial condition.  



        The spin-off of our SOC and memory test businesses and the divestiture of our semiconductor products business, even after its completion, could
involve a number of risks, including: 



•the
diversion of the attention of management and other key personnel; and 

22




 




•restructuring,
inventory and other charges which may affect our results of operations. 


        There
can be no assurance that our completed sale of the semiconductor products business or our spin-off of the SOC and memory test businesses would cause us to achieve our
goal of successfully focusing on our core businesses. Also, there can there be no assurance that this strategic realignment of the business will be beneficial to our business or financial condition.
Even assuming the strategic realignment would be beneficial, we may fail to properly implement the spin-off, which might adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Additionally, our decision to divest the semiconductor products business and to spin-off the SOC and memory test businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as
inventory, goodwill and intangible-asset impairments, workforce reduction costs, pension and stock option costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties
who were resellers or users of discontinued products. 

        Prior
to its divestiture, our semiconductor products business was a significant portion of our consolidated business, but its financial results are no longer included in our consolidated
financial results on a continuing operations basis. Our semiconductor test business represents a significant portion of our consolidated business, but we will not report the financial results of this
business, including net revenues and net income, after it is spun off. The result of omitting the semiconductor products business from our continuing operations has caused our net revenues to decline
and the result of omitting our semiconductor test business from our consolidated financial statements could cause our net revenues to decline. Accordingly, our historical consolidated financial
results may not necessarily reflect our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, as a result of a spin-off or divestiture, our stock price may
fluctuate. 

        We
will retain contingent liabilities from the divestiture of our semiconductor products business. We agreed to retain responsibility for specified contingent liabilities related to
these businesses, including designated tax and environmental liabilities and potential claims by Avago Technologies Ltd. (formerly known as Argos Acquisition Pte. Ltd.) ("Avago") that
the representations and warranties we made about the businesses were inaccurate. The resolution of these contingencies may have a material adverse effect on our continuing results of operations or
financial condition. 



 We may not be successful in our efforts to maintain a reduced cost structure, and the actions that we take in order to reduce costs could have long-term adverse effects on our business.  



        We have taken, and continue to take, various actions to transition our company to a reduced cost structure. In conjunction with the divestiture of our
semiconductor products business and proposed spin-off of our SOC and memory test businesses, we recently announced the restructuring of our global infrastructure organization to reduce
costs by $450 million. 

        There
are several risks inherent in our efforts to maintain a reduced cost structure. These include the risks that we will not be able to reduce expenditures quickly enough and hold them
at a level necessary to sustain or increase profitability and that we may have to undertake further restructuring initiatives that would entail additional charges. For example, our expenses were
higher than anticipated during the second quarter of 2004, due to increases in demand for items like travel, training, consultants, manufacturing and operating supplies, which adversely affected our
performance. If our current plan to reduce costs leads to similar increases in demand we could face the same situation in the future. As we transform our infrastructure, we expect to face ongoing
pressure to control expenses. If we are not able to hold down expenses we may have to further reduce our workforce. There is also the risk that cost-cutting initiatives will impair our
ability to effectively develop and market products, to remain competitive in the industries in which we compete and to operate effectively. Each of the above measures could have long-term
effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products, making it 

23




 


more
difficult for us to respond to customers, limiting our ability to increase production quickly if and when the demand for our products increases and limiting our ability to hire and retain key
personnel. These circumstances could cause our income to be lower than it otherwise might be, which would adversely affect our stock price. 



 If we do not introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner, our products and services will become obsolete, and our operating results will suffer.  



        We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and changing
industry standards. In addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and
services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer.
The success of our new products and services will depend on several factors, including our ability to: 



•properly
identify customer needs;
•innovate
and develop new technologies, services and applications;
•successfully
commercialize new technologies in a timely manner;
•manufacture
and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time;
•differentiate
our offerings from our competitors' offerings;
•price
our products competitively;
•anticipate
our competitors' development of new products, services or technological innovations; and
•control
product quality in our manufacturing process. 




 Dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. Dependence on outsourced
information technology functions may impair our ability to operate effectively.  



        As part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we have been outsourcing and will continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. If our contract
manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. For
example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers' orders on a timely basis. The ability of
these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. In addition, we outsourced significant portions of our information technology ("IT") function. Since IT is critical to our operations,
any failure to perform on the part of the IT providers could impair our ability to operate effectively. In addition to the risks outlined above, problems with manufacturing or IT outsourcing could
result in lower revenues, and impact our results of operations and our stock price. Much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries, and as a result may be subject to geopolitical
uncertainty. 



 Future changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations.  



        A change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting
pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. These new accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported financial results. 

24




 

        For
example, under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, "Share Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123R"), we will be required to account for our stock-based awards
as a compensation expense and our net income and net income per share will be significantly reduced. Currently, we record compensation expense only in connection with option grants that have an
exercise price below fair market value. For option grants that have an exercise price at fair market value, we calculate compensation expense and disclose their impact on net income (loss) and net
income (loss) per share, as well as the impact of all stock-based compensation expense in a footnote to the consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 123R requires us to adopt the new
accounting provisions beginning in our first quarter of 2006, and will require us to expense stock-
based awards, including shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights, as compensation cost. 



 Failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers' demand could adversely affect our income.  



        Our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the
markets in which we operate. The sale of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their
products. For example, the consumer electronics market is particularly volatile, making demand difficult to anticipate. During a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or
components to meet increasing product demand, which could materially affect our results. In addition, some of the parts that require custom design are not readily available from alternate suppliers
due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to reengineer our product. In addition to
discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. In order to secure components for the production of products,
we may continue to enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to
declining market demands. Prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for our communications, semiconductor and electronics products has decreased. If demand for our
products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges. 



 Our income may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match our demand.  



        Because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our
expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. If, during a general market upturn or an upturn in one of our segments, we cannot increase our manufacturing
capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner. This inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our results. By contrast, if
during an economic downturn we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income. 



 Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations.  



        Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from
international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. In addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities
are increasingly located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: 



•interruption
to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; 

25





 




•changes
in foreign currency exchange rates;
•changes
in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions;
•trade
protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;
•negative
consequences from changes in tax laws;
•difficulty
in staffing and managing widespread operations;
•differing
labor regulations;
•differing
protection of intellectual property;
•unexpected
changes in regulatory requirements; and
•geopolitical
turmoil, including terrorism and war. 


        We
centralized most of our accounting processes to two locations: Malaysia and India. These processes include general accounting, cost accounting, accounts payable and accounts
receivables functions. If conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers and collect our receivables. Our results of
operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results. 



 Our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel.  



        Our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative
personnel. If we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we will not be able to maintain or expand our business. The markets in which we operate are very dynamic, and our
businesses continue to respond with reorganizations, workforce reductions and site closures. We believe our pay levels are very competitive within the regions that we operate. However, there is also
intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas where we continue to recruit, and it may become more difficult to retain our key employees. 



 Our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected.  



        In the normal course of business, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures
and divestitures, and generally expect to complete several transactions per year. As a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from the investment community's expectations in a
given quarter, or over the long term. In
addition, acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team and business infrastructure. We may have difficulty developing, manufacturing
and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines to realize the value from expected synergies. Depending on the
size and complexity of an acquisition, our successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including: 



•the
retention of key employees;
•the
management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas;
•the
retention of key customers;
•the
compatibility of our sales programs and facilities within those of the acquired company; and
•the
compatibility of our existing infrastructure with that of an acquired company. 


        A
successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to: 



•effectively
transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to the purchaser; 

26




 




•identify
and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to keep; and
•reduce
fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business. 


        Future
impairment of the value of purchased assets and goodwill could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. 

        In
addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these
customers also purchase other Agilent products. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. Further, if market
conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such
transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. 



 Environmental contamination from past operations could subject us to unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties involved and
environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future.  



        Some of our properties are undergoing remediation by Hewlett-Packard ("HP") for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of our separation from HP.
HP has agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. The determination
of the existence and cost of any additional contamination caused by us could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. In addition, HP will have access to our
properties to perform remediation. While HP has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require
us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. We cannot be sure that HP will continue to fulfill its indemnification or
remediation obligations. 

        We
have agreed to indemnify HP for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all other properties transferred from HP to us other than those properties
currently undergoing remediation by HP. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with any potential subsurface contamination at any of those properties, subsurface contamination
may exist, and we may be exposed to material liability as a result of the existence of that contamination. 


        Our
semiconductor and other manufacturing processes involve the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. We may
still be subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. Although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites
inside and outside the U.S., even if the sites outside the U.S. are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability. 



 Our customers and we are subject to various governmental regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain
regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties.  



        Our businesses are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to health and safety, packaging,
product content, labor and import/export regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more 

27




 

stringent
over time. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable
government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our
operations. In addition, because many of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products. 

        Our
products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization, as well as regulation by other agencies
such as the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. We also must comply with work safety rules. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed. 

        Some
of our chemical analysis products are used in conjunction with chemicals whose manufacture, processing, distribution and notification requirements are regulated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency under the Toxic Substances Control Act, and by regulatory bodies in other countries with laws similar to the Toxic Substances Control Act. We must conform the
manufacture, processing, distribution of and notification about these chemicals to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all countries as these requirements change. If we fail to comply
with these requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, then we could be made to pay civil penalties, face criminal prosecution and, in some cases, be prohibited from distributing
our products in commerce until the products or component substances are brought into compliance. 



 We are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a
reduction in revenue associated with these customers.  



        We have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to
companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and
conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to comply with these
regulations might result in suspension of these contracts, or administrative penalties. 



 Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products.  



        While we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of intellectual property
rights of others that may cover some of our technology, products or services. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could
divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of
intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also
may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. 

        We
often rely on licenses of intellectual property useful for our businesses. We cannot ensure that these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. In
addition, our position with respect to the negotiation of licenses has changed as a result of our agreement to divest our semiconductor products business. In the past, we benefited from a substantial
intellectual property portfolio, including the intellectual property that is being sold to the buyer of our semiconductor products business, when asserting counterclaims and negotiating cross-licenses
with third parties. Our divestiture agreement gives us only a limited ability to sublicense the semiconductor products 

28




 


intellectual
property portfolio. Accordingly, we may be unable to obtain agreements on terms as favorable as we may have been able to obtain if we could have licensed the intellectual property
portfolio we owned prior to the divestiture agreement. 



 Third parties may infringe our intellectual property, and we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury.  



        Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality
provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which
could harm our operating results. 

        Our
pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. In addition,
our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. 

        We
may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be
harmed before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our intellectual property rights or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may
also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and result in lost revenues. Furthermore, some intellectual property rights
are licensed to other companies, allowing them to compete with us using that intellectual property. 



 If we suffer loss to our factories, facilities or distribution system due to catastrophe, our operations could be seriously harmed.  



        Our factories, facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made
disasters. In particular, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake due to their locations. Our production facilities, headquarters and Agilent
Technologies Laboratories in California, and our production facilities in Washington and Japan, are all located in areas with above average seismic activity. If any of these facilities were to
experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. In addition, since we have
recently consolidated our manufacturing facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in the event of a catastrophe in any one location. Although we carry insurance
for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. 

Item 1B