Item 1A.  In order to remain competitive and to improve its financial condition, the Company must continue to take steps to generate additional revenues and to reduce its costs.  It has become increasingly difficult to identify and implement significant revenue enhancement and cost savings initiatives.  The adequacy and ultimate success of the Company’s initiatives to generate additional revenues and reduce costs cannot be assured. Moreover, whether the Company’s
initiatives will be adequate or successful depends in large measure on factors beyond its control, notably the overall industry environment, including passenger demand, yield and industry capacity growth, and fuel prices. It will be very difficult for the Company to continue to fund its obligations on an ongoing basis and to return to profitability if the overall industry revenue environment does not improve substantially or if fuel prices were to increase and persist for an extended period at high levels.


Competition


Domestic Air Transportation   The domestic airline industry is fiercely competitive.  Currently, any United States (U.S.) air carrier deemed fit by DOT is free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its possessions.  Most
major air carriers have developed hub-and-spoke systems and schedule patterns in an effort to maximize the revenue potential of their service.  American operates in five primary markets: Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW), Chicago O'Hare, Miami, New York City and Los Angeles.



 
The American Eagle® carriers increase the number of markets the Company serves by providing connections at American’s primary markets, and Boston and Raleigh/Durham.  The AmericanConnection® carrier currently provides connecting service to American through St. Louis.  In 2010, this service is expected
to be repositioned to provide connecting service to American through Chicago O’Hare to support American’s previously announced network restructuring.  American's competitors also own or have marketing agreements with regional carriers which provide similar services at their major hubs and other locations.


On most of its domestic non-stop routes, the Company faces competing service from at least one, and sometimes more than one, domestic airline including: AirTran Airways (Air Tran), Alaska Airlines (Alaska), Continental Airlines (Continental), Delta Air Lines (including Northwest Airlines) (Delta), Frontier Airlines, JetBlue Airways (JetBlue),
Hawaiian Airlines, Southwest Airlines (Southwest), Spirit Airlines, United, US Airways, Virgin America Airlines and their affiliated regional carriers.  Competition is even greater between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs.  In addition, the Company faces competition on some of its connecting routes from carriers operating point-to-point service on such routes.  The Company also competes with all-cargo and charter carriers
and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation.  On all of its routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines.


Most of the Company’s largest domestic competitors and several smaller carriers have reorganized under the protection of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Chapter 11) in recent years.  It is possible that one or more of the Company’s competitors may seek to reorganize in or out of Chapter 11.  Successful
reorganizations present the Company with competitors with significantly lower operating costs derived from renegotiated labor, supply and financing contracts.


International Air Transportation   In addition to its extensive domestic service, the Company provides international service to the Caribbean, Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia.  The Company's operating revenues from foreign operations (flights serving
international destinations) were approximately 40 percent of the Company’s total operating revenues in 2009, and 40 percent and 37 percent of the Company’s total operating revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Additional information about the Company's foreign operations is included in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.


In providing international air transportation, the Company competes with foreign investor-owned carriers, foreign state-owned carriers and U.S. airlines that have been granted authority to provide scheduled passenger and cargo service between the U.S. and various overseas locations.  In general, carriers that have the greatest
ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets beyond the nonstop city pair have a competitive advantage.  In some cases, however, foreign governments limit U.S. air carriers' rights to carry passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries.  To improve access to each other's markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers – including American – have established marketing relationships with other airlines and rail companies.  American currently
has marketing relationships with Air Pacific, Air Tahiti Nui, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Brussels Airlines, Cathay Pacific, China Eastern Airlines, Dragonair, Deutsche Bahn German Rail, EL AL, Etihad Airways, EVA Air, Finnair, GOL, Gulf Air, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia, JAL, Jet Airways, LAN (includes LAN Airlines, LAN Argentina, LAN Ecuador and LAN Peru), Malév Hungarian Airlines, Mexicana, Qantas Airways, Royal Jordanian, SNCF French Rail and Vietnam Airlines.


American is also a founding member of the oneworld alliance, which includes British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, LAN Airlines, Iberia, Qantas, JAL, Malév Hungarian, Mexicana, and Royal Jordanian.  The oneworld
alliance links the networks of the member carriers to enhance customer service and smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking the carriers' frequent flyer programs and access to the carriers' airport lounge facilities.  Several of American's major competitors are members of marketing/operational alliances that enjoy ATI.  American and British Airways, the largest members of the oneworld alliance,
are restricted in their relationship because they currently lack ATI for commercial cooperation.  They are, therefore, at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis other alliances that have ATI for such cooperation.





  

  



  



In 2008, American entered into a joint business agreement and related marketing arrangements with British Airways and Iberia, providing for commercial cooperation on flights between North America and most countries in Europe, pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, expanded codesharing, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity,
and cooperation in other areas. In connection with the joint business agreement, American, British Airways and Iberia, along with Finnair and Royal Jordanian, applied to DOT for ATI for their planned cooperation, and in February of 2010, DOT tentatively granted the parties' application for ATI subject to certain conditions including requirements that American and British Airways lease a total of four takeoff and landing slots at London Heathrow (two slot pairs) to other carriers beginning in 2011, that
specified provisions of the joint business agreement be amended, and that the carriers submit reports regarding progress towards the alliance’s stated goals and the realization of public benefits.  DOT also established a procedure that allows any interested party to submit comments on its tentative findings within the next 45 days.  American is reviewing the order granting tentative approval with the other applicant
carriers, and expects to respond to DOT within the required 45 day comment period.  A final decision on the application is expected after DOT’s review of responses received from American and other interested parties during the comment period.


In September of 2009, the European Union (EU) issued a Statement of Objection (SO) related to the proposed joint business agreement.  The SO asserts, among other things, that without remedies, the joint business agreement would infringe certain aspects of EU competition law.  The carriers have responded to the SO and
have sought to demonstrate the consumer benefits of the joint business agreement.  The SO process is an anticipated part of the process of obtaining clearance from EU competition authorities.  The parties have been in discussions and have offered a set of commitments, including offering to lease slots to competitors to serve certain routes, to address the EU's remaining competition concerns.

 
Implementation of the joint business agreement and the related arrangements is subject to conditions, including final approval from DOT and clearance from EU competition authorities as referred to above, various other U.S. and foreign regulatory approvals, successful negotiation of certain detailed financial and commercial arrangements,
and other approvals.  Following satisfaction of those conditions, American expects to begin implementing the joint business agreement in the second half of 2010.  No assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits the Company may derive from such arrangements.


Price Competition   The airline industry is characterized by substantial and intense price competition. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on the Company’s financial results because the Company is generally required to match
competitors' fares, as failing to match would provide even less revenue due to customers’ price sensitivity.  In 2009, significant fare discounting occurred throughout the industry, reducing the Company’s passenger yield.


In recent years, a number of low-cost carriers (LCCs) have entered the domestic market.  Several major airlines, including the Company, have implemented efforts to lower their costs since lower cost structures enable airlines to offer lower fares.  In addition, several air carriers have reorganized in recent years
under Chapter 11, including United, Delta and US Airways.  These cost reduction efforts and bankruptcy reorganizations have allowed carriers to decrease operating costs.  In the past, lower cost structures have generally resulted in fare reductions.  If fare reductions are not offset by increases in passenger traffic, changes in the mix of traffic that improve yields and/or cost reductions, the Company’s operating results will be negatively impacted.


Regulation


General   The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, as amended, eliminated most domestic economic regulation of passenger and freight transportation.  However, DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) still exercise certain regulatory authority over
air carriers.  DOT maintains jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, international route authorities and certain consumer protection and competition matters, such as advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability.


The FAA regulates flying operations generally, including establishing standards for personnel, aircraft and certain security measures.  As part of that oversight, the FAA has implemented a number of requirements that the Company has incorporated and is incorporating into its maintenance programs.  The Company is progressing
toward the completion of over 200 airworthiness directives, a number of which require the Company to perform significant work and to incur additional expenses.  Based on its current implementation schedule, the Company expects to be in compliance with the applicable requirements within the required time periods.



 



 
DOT and DOJ have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters.  The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services.  Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which vests in the National Mediation Board (NMB) certain functions with respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to
union representation and collective bargaining agreements.


International   International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. The Company's operating authority in international markets is subject to aviation agreements between the U.S. and the respective countries or governmental authorities (such
as the European Union), and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments.  Moreover, alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies.  Bilateral agreements between the U.S. and various foreign governments of countries served by the Company are periodically subject to renegotiation.  Changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the
alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of route authorities, or otherwise adversely affect the Company's international operations. In addition, at some foreign airports, an air carrier needs slots (landing and take-off authorizations) before the air carrier can introduce new service or increase existing service.  The availability of such slots is not assured and the inability of the Company to obtain and retain needed slots could therefore inhibit its efforts to compete in
certain international markets.


In April 2007, the U.S. and the EU approved an open skies air services agreement that provides airlines from the U.S. and EU member states open access to each other’s markets, with freedom of pricing and unlimited rights to fly beyond the U.S. and any airport in the EU including London’s Heathrow Airport.  The provisions
of the agreement took effect on March 30, 2008.  Under the agreement, every U.S. and EU airline is authorized to operate between airports in the U.S. and Heathrow.  Notwithstanding the open skies agreement, Heathrow is a slot-controlled airport.  Only three airlines besides American were previously allowed to provide service to Heathrow.  The agreement has resulted in the Company facing increased competition in serving Heathrow, where the Company has lost market share.  In
addition, the Company is facing additional competition in other European markets.  See Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.


In December of 2009, the U.S. and Japan reached a tentative open skies air services agreement that provides airlines from the U.S. and Japan open access to each other’s markets.  This open skies agreement will enable new working relationships, particularly pro-competitive joint business agreements granted ATI by the U.S.
and Japanese governments.  Final approval of the agreement is contingent upon ATI and certain other issues.


Security   In November 2001, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (ATSA) was enacted in the U.S.  The ATSA created a new government agency, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), which is part of the Department of Homeland Security and
is responsible for aviation security.  The ATSA mandates that the TSA provide for the screening of all passengers and property, including U.S. mail, cargo, carry-on and checked baggage, and other articles that will be carried aboard a passenger aircraft. The ATSA also provides for security in flight decks of aircraft and requires federal air marshals to be present on certain flights.


Effective February 1, 2002, the ATSA imposed a $2.50 per enplanement security service fee, which is being collected by the air carriers and submitted to the government to pay for these enhanced security measures. Additionally, air carriers are annually required to submit to the government an amount equal to what the air carriers paid
for screening passengers and property in 2000.  In recent years, the government has sought to increase both of these fees under spending proposals for the Department of Homeland Security. American and other carriers have announced their opposition to these proposals as there is no assurance that any increase in fees could be passed on to customers.


Airline Fares   Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but applies this authority on a limited basis.  In addition, international
fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which the Company serves.  While air carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate tariffs, substantial commissions, fare overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers characterize many international markets.



Airport Access   Historically, the FAA designated John F. Kennedy International (JFK) Airport, La Guardia (LGA) Airport and Washington Reagan airports as high-density traffic airports.  The high-density rule limited the number of Instrument Flight Rule operations - take-offs and landings - permitted per hour and required that
a “take-off/landing slot right” support each operation.  The high density rule was repealed for JFK and LGA; however, both airports remain subject to operating restrictions.


In order to remedy congestion at LGA due to elimination of slot restrictions, in 2007 the FAA placed caps on total operations and required carriers at LGA to hold operating authorizations.  In January 2009, the FAA announced a voluntary program at LGA aimed at reducing hourly scheduled operations at LGA from 75 to 71, which is
expected to help ease congestion and delay without materially affecting carrier operations.


In December 2007, DOT reached an agreement with domestic airlines to ease congestion at JFK by shifting the timing of certain flights.  Such re-timing has not had a significant impact on the Company’s flights to or from JFK. 


In late 2008, the FAA issued new rules for carriers operating at LGA, JFK and Newark that would have fundamentally changed the manner in which operating authorizations are held and distributed at those airports.  Every departure and landing would have required an authorization and existing carriers would have been requested to reduce
service to provide authorizations for auction to other carriers without increasing total airport operations.  The Company, along with numerous other carriers and interested parties, opposed adoption of these rules.  Immediately after the rules were issued, the Air Transport Association (ATA) and others petitioned for judicial review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit challenging the rules and seeking a stay (preliminary injunction) against their implementation. 
The court granted the stay motion, thus blocking the rules from taking effect, pending the court’s ultimate decision on the merits.  In May of 2009, the FAA withdrew its proposal of these rules at these airports.  Any future proposals that could require the Company to alter the routes and services it currently operates at LGA, JFK and Newark could have potentially material adverse effects on the Company.


In 2006, the FAA issued an order requiring that carriers hold arrival authorizations to land during certain hours at Chicago O’Hare.  That order limits the purchase or sale of arrival authorizations. The Company has not experienced any significant adverse impact from this order. 


The high-density rule remains in effect at Washington Reagan.  Legislation has been introduced to abolish the perimeter rule at that airport, which (with exceptions) limits nonstop flights to a distance of 1,250 miles.  Some foreign airports, including London Heathrow and Tokyo Narita, major destinations for American, also
require slot allocations. 


Although the Company is constrained by slots, it currently has sufficient slot authorizations to operate its existing flights.  However, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to retain or obtain slots in the future to expand its operations or change its schedules because, among other factors, slot allocations are
subject to changes in government policies and antitrust negotiations.


In 2006, the Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006 (the Act) became law.  The Act is based on an agreement by the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, DFW International Airport, Southwest, and the Company to modify the Wright Amendment, which authorizes certain flight operations at Dallas Love Field within defined geographic
areas.  Among other things, the Act eventually eliminates domestic geographic restrictions on operations while limiting the maximum number of gates at Love Field.  The Company believes the Act is a pragmatic resolution of the issues related to the Wright Amendment and the use of Love Field.


Environmental Matters   The Company is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other countries.  U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on the Company include
the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or the Superfund Act).  Certain operations of the Company are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
OSHA, and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on the Company's operations.  In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes.  Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements.



The ANCA recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system.  Authorities in several cities have promulgated aircraft noise reduction programs, including
the imposition of nighttime curfews.  The ANCA generally requires FAA approval of local noise restrictions on aircraft.  While the Company has had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread.
 
Many aspects of the Company’s operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations.  Concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional legislation or regulation. For example, the EU recently approved measures that impose emissions limits
on airlines with operations to, from or within the EU as part of an emissions trading system beginning in 2012.  The Company is continuing to assess the potential costs of the EU measures.  Such legislative or regulatory action by the U.S., state or foreign governments currently or in the future may adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results.  See Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information.


The environmental laws to which the Company is subject include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination.  The Company is conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases.  The
Company anticipates that the ongoing costs of such activities will be immaterial.  The Company has also been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at certain Superfund sites.  The Company’s alleged volumetric contributions at such sites are small in comparison to total contributions of all PRPs and the Company expects that any future payments of its share of costs at such sites will be immaterial.


Labor


The airline business is labor intensive.  Wages, salaries and benefits represented approximately 33 percent of the Company’s consolidated operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The average full-time equivalent number of employees of the Company’s subsidiaries for the year ended December
31, 2009 was 78,900.


The majority of these employees are represented by labor unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.  Relations with such labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA).  Under this act, the collective bargaining agreements among the Company’s subsidiaries and these organizations
generally do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date.  If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the RLA and as agreed to by the parties.  Under the RLA, after receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the NMB to appoint a federal mediator.  The RLA prescribes no set timetable for the direct
negotiation and mediation process.  It is not unusual for those processes to last for many months, and even for several years.  If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties.  Either party may decline to submit to arbitration.  If arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences.  During
that period (or after), a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) may be established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution.  The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another “cooling off” period of 30 days.  At the end of a “cooling off” period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own “self-help,”
including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers.


In April 2003, American reached agreements (the Labor Agreements) with its three major unions: the Allied Pilots Association (the APA) which represents American’s pilots, the Transport Workers Union of America (AFL-CIO) (the TWU), which represents seven different employee groups, and the Association of Professional Flight Attendants
(the APFA), which represents American’s flight attendants. The Labor Agreements substantially moderated the labor costs associated with the employees represented by the unions.  In conjunction with the Labor Agreements, American also implemented various changes in the pay plans and benefits for non-unionized personnel, including officers and other management (the Management Reductions). The Labor Agreements became amendable in 2008 (although the parties agreed that they could begin the negotiations
process as early as 2006). 


 



 


In 2006, American and the APA commenced negotiations under the RLA.  In April of 2008, following a request by the APA, a mediator was appointed by the NMB.  The parties have been in mediated negotiations since that time.   The APA has filed a number of grievances, lawsuits and complaints, most of which American
believes are part of a corporate campaign related to the union’s labor agreement negotiations with American. While American is vigorously defending these claims, unfavorable outcomes of one or more of them could require American to incur additional costs, change the way it conducts some parts of its business, or otherwise adversely affect the Company.


Also in 2006, American and the TWU commenced negotiations with respect only to dispatchers, one of the seven groups at American represented by the TWU.  Subsequently, following a request by the parties, a mediator was appointed by the NMB for the dispatcher negotiations.  Thereafter, in November 2007, American and the TWU commenced
negotiations under the RLA with respect to the other employee groups represented by the TWU. Direct negotiations between American and the TWU employees with respect to those other groups continued until December 2008, at which time the parties jointly filed with the NMB for mediation with respect to the fleet service, stores, ground school instructors, and simulator technician groups of employees.  The NMB appointed a mediator soon thereafter.  Then in February 2009, following a request by the TWU,
a mediator was appointed by the NMB with respect to the mechanics and the technical specialists. All parties have been in mediated negotiations since that time.


American and the APFA commenced negotiations in the first half of 2008.  Direct negotiations between the parties continued until December 2008, at which time the parties jointly filed an application to the NMB asking that a mediator be appointed.  The NMB appointed a mediator soon thereafter.


The Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA), which represents American Eagle pilots, reached agreement with American Eagle effective September 1, 1997, to have all of the pilots of the American Eagle® carriers (currently American Eagle Airlines, Inc. and Executive Airlines, Inc.) covered by a single contract.  This agreement lasts
until January 1, 2013.  The agreement provided to the parties the right to seek limited changes in 2000, 2004 and 2008. If the parties were unable to agree on the limited changes, the agreement provided that any issues would be resolved by interest arbitration, without the exercise of self-help (such as a strike).  ALPA and American Eagle negotiated a tentative agreement in 2000, but that agreement failed in ratification. Thereafter, the parties participated in interest arbitration. The interest arbitration
panel determined the limited changes that should be made and these changes were appropriately effected.  In 2004 and in 2008, the parties successfully negotiated limited changes.  The pilot agreement is amendable January 1, 2013; however, the parties have agreed that contract openers may be exchanged 120 days prior to that date.


The Association of Flight Attendants (AFA) represents the flight attendants of the American Eagle carriers. The current agreement between the American Eagle carriers and the AFA became amendable on October 27, 2009.  The parties have exchanged contract openers and have commenced direct negotiations. The
other union employees at the American Eagle carriers are covered by separate agreements with the TWU. The agreements between the American Eagle carriers and the TWU were amendable beginning on October 1, 2007, and the parties commenced negotiations.  In January 2009, an application for mediation was filed with the NMB and a mediator was appointed to assist the parties.  In January 2010, American Eagle and the TWU reached a tentative agreement with respect to aircraft maintenance technicians
and fleet service clerks for 24 months, effective the date of signing.  Finalization and signing of the tentative agreement is expected in early 2010.  However, the agreement is subject to ratification by the membership of TWU, and there are no assurances that the agreement will be approved.
 
Fuel


The Company’s operations and financial results are significantly affected by the availability and price of jet fuel.  The Company's fuel costs and consumption for the years 2007 through 2009 were:




 
 
 
 
Year
 

 
Gallons
Consumed
(in millions)
 
 

 
 
Total Cost
(in millions)
 
 

Average Cost Per Gallon
(in dollars)
 
 

Percent of AMR's Operating Expenses
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2007
 
 
3,130
 
 
$ 
6,670
 
 
$
2.131
 
 
 
30.4
% 

2008
 
 
2,971
 
 
 
9,014
 
 
 
3.034
 
 
 
35.1
 

2009
 
 
2,762
 
 
 
5,553
 
 
 
2.010
 
 
 
26.5
 
 



 
The impact of fuel price changes on the Company and its competitors depends on various factors, including hedging strategies.  The Company has a fuel hedging program in which it enters into jet fuel and heating oil hedging contracts to dampen the impact of the volatility of jet fuel prices. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company’s
fuel hedging program increased (decreased) the Company’s fuel expense by approximately $651 million, ($380) million and ($239) million, respectively. As of January 2010, the Company had cash flow hedges, with option contracts, primarily heating oil collars and call options, covering approximately 24 percent of its estimated 2010 fuel requirements.  The consumption hedged for 2010 by cash flow hedges is capped at an average price of approximately $2.48 per gallon of jet fuel, and the Company’s
collars have an average floor price of approximately $1.80 per gallon of jet fuel (both the capped and floor price exclude taxes and transportation costs).  A deterioration of the Company’s financial position could negatively affect the Company’s ability to hedge fuel in the future. See the Risk Factors under Item 1A for additional information regarding fuel.


Additional information regarding the Company’s fuel program is also included in Item 7(A) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.


Frequent Flyer Program


American established the AAdvantage® frequent flyer program (AAdvantage) to develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued patronage. The Company believes that the AAdvantage program is one of its competitive strengths. AAdvantage benefits from a growing base of approximately 64 million members with
desirable demographics who have demonstrated a strong willingness to collect AAdvantage miles over other loyalty program incentives and are generally disposed to adjusting their purchasing behavior in order to earn additional AAdvantage miles.  AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American, American Eagle, and the AmericanConnection® carrier or by using services of other participants in the AAdvantage program.  Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded
travel on American, American Eagle or other participating airlines, or for other awards.  Once a member accrues sufficient mileage for an award, the member may book award travel.  Most travel awards are subject to capacity controlled seating. A member’s mileage credit does not expire as long as that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 18 months.


American sells mileage credits and related services to other participants in the AAdvantage program. There are over 1,000 program participants, including a leading credit card issuer, hotels, car rental companies and other products and services companies in the AAdvantage program.  The Company believes that program participants
benefit from the sustained purchasing behavior of AAdvantage members, which translates into a recurring stream of revenues for AAdvantage.  Under its agreements with AAdvantage members and program participants, the Company reserves the right to change the AAdvantage program at any time without notice, and may end the program with six months notice.  As of December 31, 2009, AAdvantage had approximately 64 million total members, and 600 billion outstanding award miles.  During 2009,
AAdvantage issued approximately 175 billion miles, of which approximately two-thirds were sold to program participants.  See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” under Item 7 for more information on AAdvantage.


In 2009, American entered into an arrangement under which an affinity partner pre-purchased AAdvantage miles from American as further discussed in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.


Other Matters


Seasonality and Other Factors   The Company’s results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year, since the air transportation business is subject to seasonal fluctuations.  Higher demand for air
travel has traditionally resulted in more favorable operating and financial results for the second and third quarters of the year than for the first and fourth quarters. Fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 2009 is included in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.  In addition, the results of operations
in the air transportation business have also significantly fluctuated in the past in response to general economic conditions.


 



 
 

Insurance   The Company carries insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft.  As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 (the Terrorist Attacks), aviation insurers significantly
reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general.  While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after the Terrorist Attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the
amount of insurance coverage available to the Company, or significantly increase its cost, the Company would be adversely affected.


The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines through August 31, 2010, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. If the U.S. government were to cease providing such insurance in whole or in part, it is likely that the Company could obtain
comparable coverage in the commercial market, but the Company would incur substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms.  There can be no assurance that comparable war-risk coverage will be available in the commercial market.  If the Company is unable to obtain adequate war-risk coverage at commercially reasonable rates, the Company would be adversely affected.



While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the premium increases immediately after the Terrorist Attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to the Company, or significantly increase its cost, the Company would be adversely affected.


Other Government Matters   In time of war or during a national emergency or defense oriented situation, American and other air carriers can be required to provide airlift services to the Air Mobility Command under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program. In the event
the Company has to provide a substantial number of aircraft and crew to the Air Mobility Command, its operations could be adversely impacted.


Available Information   The Company makes its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 available
free of charge under the Investor Relations page on its website, www.aa.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company’s code of ethics (called the Standards of Business Conduct), which applies to all employees of the Company, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Controller, is posted under the Investor Relations page on its website, www.aa.com.
The Company intends to disclose any amendments to the code of ethics, or waivers of the code of ethics on behalf of the CEO, CFO or Controller, under the Investor Relations page on the Company’s website, www.aa.com.  The charters for the AMR Board of Directors’ standing committees (the Audit, Compensation, Diversity and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees), as well as the Board of Directors’ Governance Policies (the Governance Policies), are likewise available on the Company’s
website, www.aa.com.  Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into or otherwise made a part of this Report.


 



 

ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS


Our ability to become profitable and our ability to continue to fund our obligations on an ongoing basis will depend on a number of risk factors, many of which are largely beyond our control.  Some of the factors that may have a negative impact on us are described below:



As a result of significant losses in recent years, our financial condition has been materially weakened.
 

We incurred significant losses in recent years, which has materially weakened our financial condition. We lost $893 million in 2005, $781 million in 2004, $1.2 billion in 2003, $3.5 billion in 2002 and $1.8 billion in 2001. Although we earned a profit of $456 million in 2007 and $189 million in 2006, we
lost $2.1 billion in 2008 (which included a $1.2 billion impairment charge), and, primarily as a result of very weak demand for air travel driven by the severe downturn in the global economy, we lost $1.5 billion in 2009.  Because of our weakened financial condition, we are vulnerable both to the impact of unexpected events (such as terrorist attacks) and to deterioration of the operating environment (such as a deepening of the current global recession, a significant increase in jet fuel
prices or significant increased competition).
 

The severe global economic downturn has resulted in very weak demand for air travel and lower investment asset returns, which has had and could continue to have a significant negative impact on us.
 
We are experiencing very weak demand for air travel driven by the severe downturn in the global economy. Many of the countries we serve are experiencing economic slowdowns or recessions. We began to experience weakening demand late in 2008, and this weakness has continued into 2010. We reduced capacity in 2008, and in the first half of
2009 we announced additional reductions to our capacity plan. In connection with these capacity reductions, the Company incurred special charges related to aircraft, employee reductions and certain other charges.  If the global economic downturn persists or worsens, demand for air travel may continue to weaken. No assurance can be given that capacity reductions or other steps we may take will be adequate to offset the effects of reduced demand.  Such capacity reductions or other steps might
result in additional special charges in the future.  Further, other carriers may not reduce capacity or may increase capacity, which may reduce the expected benefits of our capacity reductions.
 

The economic downturn has resulted in broadly lower investment asset returns and values.  Our pension assets suffered a material decrease in value in 2008 related to broader stock market declines, which resulted in higher pension expense in 2009 and will result in higher pension expense and higher required contributions in future
years. In addition, under these unfavorable economic conditions, we may be required to maintain cash reserves under our credit card processing agreements and the potential obligation to post cash collateral on fuel hedging contracts. These issues individually or collectively may have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. Also, disruptions in the capital markets and other sources of funding may make it impossible for us to obtain necessary additional funding or make the cost of that funding prohibitive.
 

We face numerous challenges as we seek to maintain sufficient liquidity, and we will need to raise substantial additional funds. We may not be able to raise those funds, or to do so on acceptable terms.
 

We have significant debt, lease and other obligations in the next several years, including significant pension funding obligations. In 2010, we will be required to make approximately $1.0 billion of principal payments on long-term debt and approximately $90 million in principal payments on capital leases, and we expect to spend approximately
$2.1 billion on capital expenditures, including aircraft commitments.  In addition, in 2010, we are required to contribute approximately $525 million to our defined benefit pension plans. Moreover, the global economic downturn, rising fuel prices, the potential obligation to post reserves under credit card processing agreements and the potential obligation to post cash collateral on fuel hedging contracts, among other things, have negatively impacted, and may in the future negatively impact, our liquidity.
To meet our commitments and to maintain sufficient liquidity as we continue to implement our revenue enhancement and cost reduction initiatives, we will need continued access to substantial additional funding. Moreover, while we have arranged financings that, subject to certain terms and conditions (including, in the case of financing arrangements covering a significant number of aircraft, a condition that, at the time of borrowing, we have a certain amount of unrestricted cash and short term investments), cover
all of our aircraft delivery commitments through 2011, we will continue to need to raise substantial additional funds to meet our commitments.


 



 



Our ability to obtain future financing is limited by the value of our unencumbered assets. Almost all of our aircraft assets (including aircraft eligible for the benefits of Section 1110) are encumbered as a result of financing activity in recent years. This financing activity has significantly reduced the quantity of our assets
which could be used as collateral in future financing.   Also, the market value of our aircraft assets has declined in recent years, and may continue to decline.  In addition, many of the other financing sources traditionally available to us may be difficult to access, and no assurance can be given as to the amount of financing available to us.
 

Since the Terrorist Attacks, our credit ratings have been lowered to significantly below investment grade. These reductions have increased our borrowing costs and otherwise adversely affected borrowing terms, and limited borrowing options. Additional reductions in our credit ratings might have other effects on us, such as further increasing
borrowing or other costs or further restricting our ability to raise funds.
 

A number of other factors, including our financial results in recent years, our substantial indebtedness, the difficult revenue environment we face, our reduced credit ratings, recent historically high fuel prices, and the financial difficulties experienced in the airline industry, adversely affect the availability and terms of funding
for us. In addition, the global economic downturn and recent severe disruptions in the capital markets and other sources of funding have resulted in greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, and substantially more limited availability of funding.  As a result of these and other factors, although we believe we have or can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and obligations, there can be no assurances to that effect. An inability to obtain necessary additional funding
on acceptable terms would have a material adverse impact on us and on our ability to sustain our operations.
 

We could be required to maintain reserves under our credit card processing agreements, which could materially adversely impact our liquidity.
 

American has agreements with a number of credit card companies and processors to accept credit cards for the sale of air travel and other services. Under certain of these agreements, the related credit card processor may hold back a reserve from American’s credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including
the failure of American to maintain certain levels of liquidity (as specified in each agreement).
 
Under such agreements, the amount of the reserve that may be required generally is based on the credit card processor’s exposure to the Company under the applicable agreement and, in the case of a reserve required because of American’s failure to maintain a certain level of liquidity, the amount of such liquidity.  As
of December 31, 2009, the Company was not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements.  If circumstances were to occur that would allow the credit card processor to require the Company to maintain a reserve, the Company’s liquidity would be negatively impacted.
 

Our initiatives to generate additional revenues and to reduce our costs may not be adequate or successful.
 

As we seek to improve our financial condition, we must continue to take steps to generate additional revenues and to reduce our costs. Although we have a number of initiatives underway to address our cost and revenue challenges, some of these initiatives involve changes to our business which we may be unable to implement. In addition, it
has become increasingly difficult to identify and implement significant revenue enhancement and cost savings initiatives. The adequacy and ultimate success of our initiatives to generate additional revenues and reduce our costs cannot be assured. Moreover, whether our initiatives will be adequate or successful depends in large measure on factors beyond our control, notably the overall industry environment, including passenger demand, yield and industry capacity growth, and fuel prices. It will be very difficult
for us to continue to fund our obligations on an ongoing basis, and to return to profitability, if the overall industry revenue environment does not improve substantially or if fuel prices were to increase and persist for an extended period at high levels.


 



 
 

We may be adversely affected by increases in fuel prices, and we would be adversely affected by disruptions in the supply of fuel.
 

Our results are very significantly affected by the cost, volatile price and the availability of jet fuel, which are in turn affected by a number of factors beyond our control.  Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, we may not be able to pass on increased fuel prices to customers by increasing fares. Although we
had some success in raising fares and imposing fuel surcharges in reaction to high fuel prices, these fare increases and surcharges did not keep pace with the extraordinary increases in the price of fuel that occurred in 2007 and 2008. Although fuel prices have abated considerably from the record high prices recorded in July 2008, they have steadily increased since the first quarter of 2009 and remain high and extremely volatile by historical standards. Furthermore, reduced demand or increased fare competition,
or both, and resulting lower revenues may offset any potential benefit of any reductions in fuel prices.


While we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in fuel availability, dependence on foreign imports of crude oil, limited refining capacity and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet fuel production, transportation and marketing make it impossible to predict the future availability of jet fuel. If there are
additional outbreaks of hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas or elsewhere, or a reduction in refining capacity (due to weather events, for example), or governmental limits on the production or sale of jet fuel (including as a consequence of increased environmental regulation), there could be a reduction in the supply of jet fuel and significant increases in the cost of jet fuel. Major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost would have a material adverse
impact on us.
 

We have a large number of older aircraft in our fleet, and these aircraft are not as fuel efficient as more recent models of aircraft. We believe it is imperative that we continue to execute our fleet renewal plans. However, there will be significant delays in the deliveries of the Boeing 787-9 aircraft we currently have on order.
 

While we seek to manage the risk of fuel price increases by using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that, at any given time, we will have derivatives in place to provide any particular level of protection against increased fuel costs. In addition, a deterioration of our financial position could negatively affect our ability
to enter into derivative contracts in the future. Moreover, declines in fuel prices below the levels established in derivative contracts may require us to post cash collateral to secure the loss positions on such contracts, and if such contracts close when fuel prices are below the applicable levels, we would be required to make payments to close such contracts; these payments would be treated as additional fuel expense.
 

Our indebtedness and other obligations are substantial and could adversely affect our business and liquidity.
 

We have and will continue to have significant amounts of indebtedness, obligations to make future payments on aircraft equipment and property leases, and obligations under aircraft purchase agreements, as well as a high proportion of debt to equity capital. As of December 31, 2009, we were contractually committed to make approximately $1.1 billion
of principal payments on long-term debt and payments on capital leases during 2010. We expect to incur substantial additional debt (including secured debt) and lease obligations in the future. We also have substantial pension funding obligations, and we are required to contribute approximately $525 million to our defined benefit pension plans in 2010. Our substantial indebtedness and other obligations have important consequences. For example, they:





  

• 

limit our ability to obtain additional funding for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes, and adversely affect the terms on which such funding can be obtained;
  
  
  
  

• 

require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and other obligations, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes;
  
  
  
  

• 

make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and catastrophic external events; and
  
  
  
  

• 

limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.


 



 



Our business is affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, and our results of operations tend to be volatile and fluctuate due to seasonality.
 

Our business and our results of operations are affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including, among others:





  

• 

actual or potential changes in international, national, regional and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation, higher interest rates, wars, terrorist attacks or political instability;
  
  
  
  

• 

changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns or demographic trends;
  
  
  
  

• 

changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, changes in airline alliance affiliations and other factors;
  
  
  
  

• 

actual or potential disruptions to the air traffic control systems;
  
  
  
  

• 

increases in costs of safety, security and environmental measures;
  
  
  
  

• 

outbreaks of diseases that affect travel behavior; and
  
  
  
  

• 

weather and natural disasters.



As a result, our results of operations tend to be volatile and subject to rapid and unexpected change. In addition, due to generally greater demand for air travel during the summer, our revenues in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year.
 

The airline industry is fiercely competitive and may undergo further consolidation or changes in industry alliances, and we are subject to increasing competition.
 

Service over almost all of our routes is highly competitive and fares remain at low levels by historical standards. We face vigorous, and, in some cases, increasing, competition from major domestic airlines, national, regional, all-cargo and charter carriers, foreign air carriers, low-cost carriers and, particularly on shorter segments,
ground and rail transportation. We also face increasing and significant competition from marketing/operational alliances formed by our competitors. The percentage of routes on which we compete with carriers having substantially lower operating costs than ours has grown significantly over the past decade, and we now compete with low-cost carriers on a large majority of our domestic non-stop mainline network routes.  Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our ability to maintain a competitive
cost structure.  If we cannot do so, then our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected.
 
Certain airline alliances have been granted immunity from antitrust regulations by governmental authorities for specific areas of cooperation, such as joint pricing decisions. To the extent alliances formed by our competitors can undertake activities that are not available to us, our ability to effectively compete may be hindered.
 

Pricing decisions are significantly affected by competition from other airlines. Fare discounting by competitors historically has had a negative effect on our financial results because we must generally match competitors’ fares, since failing to match would result in even less revenue. We have faced increased competition from carriers
with simplified fare structures, which are generally preferred by travelers. Any fare reduction or fare simplification initiative may not be offset by increases in passenger traffic, reduction in cost or changes in the mix of traffic that would improve yields. Moreover, decisions by our competitors that increase or reduce overall industry capacity, or capacity dedicated to a particular domestic or foreign region, market or route, can have a material impact on related fare levels.
 

There have been numerous mergers and acquisitions within the airline industry and numerous changes in industry alliances. Recently, two of our largest competitors, Delta Air Lines, Inc. and Northwest Airlines Corporation, merged, and the combined entity became the largest scheduled passenger airline in the world in terms of available seat
miles and revenue passenger miles. In addition, another two of our largest competitors, United Air Lines, Inc. and Continental Airlines, Inc., announced in 2008 that they had entered into a framework agreement to cooperate extensively and in 2009, Continental joined the global alliance of which United, Lufthansa and certain other airlines are members.



  



 
In the future, there may be additional mergers and acquisitions, and changes in airline alliances, including those that may be undertaken in response to the merger of Delta and Northwest or other developments in the airline industry. Any airline industry consolidation or changes in airline alliances, including oneworld, could substantially alter the competitive landscape and
result in changes in our corporate or business strategy. We regularly assess and explore the potential for consolidation in our industry and changes in airline alliances, our strategic position and ways to enhance our competitiveness, including the possibilities for our participation in merger activity. Consolidation involving other participants in our industry could result in the formation of one or more airlines with greater financial resources, more extensive networks, and/or lower cost structures than exist
currently, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and adversely affect our business and results of operations. For similar reasons, changes in airline alliances could have a similar impact on us.




In 2008, we entered into a joint business agreement and related marketing arrangements with British Airways and Iberia, providing for commercial cooperation on flights between North America and most countries in Europe, pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, expanded codesharing, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity,
and cooperation in other areas. Along with these carriers, Finnair and Royal Jordanian, we have applied to DOT for ATI for this planned cooperation and in February 2010, we received tentative approval of that application from DOT.  Final approval from DOT is subject to certain conditions, including a requirement that American and British Airways lease a total of four takeoff and landing slots at London Heathrow (two slot pairs) to other carriers. The carriers are also seeking to address issues
raised by a Statement of Objection issued by the EU which asserts that certain aspects of the joint business agreement would infringe EU competition law.  


In February 2010, American and JAL announced the decision to strengthen their relationship.  The carriers, both members of the oneworld alliance, jointly applied to DOT for ATI on certain routes, and jointly notified the MLIT in Tokyo of the proposed cooperation. The Company believes
this application will meet DOT’s pro-consumer and pro-competition criteria for granting ATI.  As a part of the application, American and JAL entered into a joint business agreement which will enhance their scope of cooperation on routes between North America and Asia, through adjustments to their respective networks, flight schedules, and other business activities. This, in turn, will allow both carriers to better complement each other’s operations and to develop and offer competitive products
and quality service to their customers. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information on the JAL joint business application.


Any plans to enter into or expand ATI joint business agreements or similar arrangements, including implementation of the joint business agreements referred to above, are subject to various conditions, including various U.S. and foreign regulatory approvals, successful negotiation of certain detailed financial and commercial arrangements,
and other approvals. Governmental entities from which such approvals must be obtained, including DOT and foreign governmental authorities or entities such as the EU, have imposed or may impose requirements or limitations as a condition of granting any such approvals, such as requiring divestiture of routes, gates, slots or other assets. No assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits we may derive from such arrangements.



We compete with reorganized carriers, which results in competitive disadvantages for us.
 

We must compete with air carriers that have reorganized under the protection of Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in recent years, including United, Delta and U.S. Airways. It is possible that other significant competitors may seek to reorganize in or out of Chapter 11.
 
Successful reorganizations by other carriers present us with competitors with significantly lower operating costs and stronger financial positions derived from renegotiated labor, supply, and financing contracts. These competitive pressures may limit our ability to adequately price our services, may require us to further reduce our operating
costs, and could have a material adverse impact on us.
 

Fares are at low levels and our reduced pricing power adversely affects our ability to achieve adequate pricing, especially with respect to business travel.
 

Our passenger yield remains very low by historical standards. We believe that this is due in large part to a corresponding decline in our pricing power. Our reduced pricing power is the product of several factors including: greater cost sensitivity on the part of travelers (particularly business travelers); pricing transparency resulting
from the use of the internet; greater competition from low-cost carriers and from carriers that have reorganized in recent years under the protection of Chapter 11; other carriers being well hedged against rising fuel costs and able to better absorb high jet fuel prices; fare simplification efforts by certain carriers; and the economy. We believe that our reduced pricing power could persist indefinitely.



 
 Our corporate or business strategy may change.
 

In light of the rapid changes in the airline industry, we evaluate our assets on an ongoing basis with a view to maximizing their value to us and determining which are core to our operations. We also regularly evaluate our corporate and business strategies, and they are influenced by factors beyond our control, including changes in the
competitive landscape we face. Our corporate and business strategies are, therefore, subject to change.
 

In the future, AMR may consider and engage in discussions with third parties regarding the divestiture of AMR Eagle and other separation transactions, and may decide to proceed with one or more such transactions. There can be no assurance that AMR will complete any separation transactions or that any announced plans or transactions will
be consummated, and no prediction can be made as to the impact of any such transactions on stockholder value or on us.


Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which can result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages.  In particular, recently enacted and possible future environmental
regulations may adversely affect our business and financial results.
 
Airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. Many of these requirements result in significant costs. For example, the FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft. Compliance with those requirements drives significant expenditures
and has in the past, and may in the future, cause disruptions to our operations. In addition, the ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the U.S. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time (such as through the adoption of an open skies policy), or because appropriate slots or facilities are not made available. Any
such change could adversely impact the value of our international route authorities and related assets.
 

Moreover, additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been enacted from time to time that have significantly increased the costs of airline operations, reduced the demand for air travel or restricted the way we can conduct our business. For example, the ATSA, which became law in 2001, mandated the federalization
of certain airport security procedures and resulted in the imposition of additional security requirements on airlines.


The results of our operations, demand for air travel, and the manner in which we conduct our business each may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies, including:
 



  

• 

changes in law which affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports;
  
  
  
  

• 

the granting and timing of certain governmental approvals (including foreign government approvals) needed for codesharing alliances and other arrangements with other airlines;
  
  
  
  

• 

restrictions on competitive practices (for example court orders, or agency regulations or orders, that would curtail an airline’s ability to respond to a competitor);
  
  
  
  

• 

the adoption of regulations that impact customer service standards (for example new passenger security standards, passenger bill of rights);
  
  
  
  

• 

restrictions on airport operations, such as restrictions on the use of takeoff and landing slots at airports or the auction of slot rights currently or previously held by us; or
  
  
  
  

• 

the adoption of more restrictive locally imposed noise restrictions.
 

In addition, the U.S. air traffic control (ATC) system, which is operated by the FAA, is not successfully managing the growing demand for U.S. air travel. U.S. airlines carry about 750 million passengers a year and are forecast to accommodate a billion passengers annually by 2021. Air traffic controllers rely on outdated
technologies that routinely overwhelm the system and compel airlines to fly inefficient, indirect routes. We support a common sense approach to ATC modernization that would allocate costs to all ATC system users in proportion to the services they consume. Reauthorization of legislation that funds the FAA, which includes proposals regarding upgrades to the ATC system, has been passed by the U.S. House of Representatives. It is uncertain whether the U.S. Senate will act and whether such legislation will become
law. In the meantime, FAA funding continues under temporary periodic extensions.



Many aspects of our operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations.  Concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional legislation or regulation.  The EU has adopted a directive under which each EU member state is required to extend
the existing EU emissions trading scheme (ETS) to aviation.  This will require us to have emission allowances in order to operate flights to and from EU member states in January 2012 and thereafter, including flights between the U.S. and EU member states.  In December 2009, the ATA, joined by American, Continental and United, filed a legal action in the United Kingdom challenging the implementation of the EU ETS as applied to aviation.  We believe that non-EU governments are also
likely to consider formal challenges to the EU ETS as applied to aviation.  It is not clear whether the EU ETS will withstand such challenges.  However, unless interim relief is granted, we will be required to continue to comply with the EU ETS during the pendency of the legal challenges.  Although the cost of compliance with the EU ETS is difficult to predict given the uncertainty of a number of variables, such as the number and price of emission allowances we may be required to
purchase, such costs could be significant.


Other legislative or regulatory actions addressing climate change and emissions from aviation that may be taken in the future by the U.S., state or foreign governments may adversely affect our business and financial results.  Climate change legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress and by certain state legislatures,
which include certain provisions that may affect the aviation industry.  In addition, the EPA has found that greenhouse gases endanger public health and welfare.  Although this finding was not applied in the context of aviation, it is possible that the EPA could in the future regulate greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft.  It is currently unknown how climate change legislation or regulation, if enacted, would specifically apply to the aviation industry.  However, the
impact on us of any climate change legislation or regulation is likely to be adverse and related costs of compliance could be significant.  Such legislation or regulation could result in, among other things, increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, the imposition of requirements to purchase emission offsets or credits, and restrictions on the growth of airline operations.  We continue to evaluate ongoing climate change developments at the international, federal and state levels and assess
the potential associated impacts on our business and operations.



We could be adversely affected by conflicts overseas or terrorist attacks.
 

Actual or threatened U.S. military involvement in overseas operations has, on occasion, had an adverse impact on our business, financial position (including access to capital markets) and results of operations, and on the airline industry in general. The continuing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, or other conflicts or events in
the Middle East or elsewhere, may result in similar adverse impacts.
 

The Terrorist Attacks had a material adverse impact on us. The occurrence of another terrorist attack (whether domestic or international and whether against us or another entity) could again have a material adverse impact on us.
 

Our international operations are subject to economic and political instability and could be adversely affected by numerous events, circumstances or government actions beyond our control.
 

Our current international activities and prospects could be adversely affected by factors such as reversals or delays in the opening of foreign markets, exchange controls, currency and political risks (including changes in exchange rates and currency devaluations), environmental regulation, increases in taxes and fees and changes in international
government regulation of our operations, including the inability to obtain or retain needed route authorities and/or slots.
 
For example, the open skies air services agreement between the U.S. and the EU which took effect in March 2008 provides airlines from the U.S. and EU member states open access to each other’s markets, with freedom of pricing and unlimited rights to fly beyond the U.S. and any airport in the EU including London’s Heathrow
Airport. The agreement has resulted in American facing increased competition in these markets, including Heathrow, where we have lost market share. In addition, in December 2009, the U.S. and Japan reached a tentative open skies air services agreement that provides airlines from the U.S. and Japan open access to each other’s markets.  If ratified, this agreement could significantly increase competition in the U.S. – Japan market.  Final approval of the agreement is contingent upon
ATI and the resolution of certain other issues.


 



 
We could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior.
 

In the second quarter of 2009, there was an outbreak of the H1N1 virus which had an adverse impact throughout our network but primarily on our operations to and from Mexico. In 2003, there was an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which had an adverse impact primarily on our Asia operations. In addition, in the past there
have been concerns about outbreaks or potential outbreaks of other diseases, such as avian flu. Any outbreak of a disease (including a worsening of the outbreak of the H1N1 virus) that affects travel behavior could have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, outbreaks of disease could result in quarantines of our personnel or an inability to access facilities or our aircraft, which could adversely affect our operations.
 

Our labor costs are higher than those of our competitors.
 

Wages, salaries and benefits constitute a significant percentage of our total operating expenses. In 2009, they constituted approximately 33 percent of our total operating expenses. All of the major hub-and-spoke carriers with whom American competes have achieved significant labor cost savings through or outside of bankruptcy proceedings.
We believe American’s labor costs are higher than those of its primary competitors, and it is unclear how long this labor cost disadvantage may persist.  These higher labor costs may adversely affect our ability to achieve and sustain profitability while competing with other airlines with lower labor costs.  Additionally, we cannot predict the outcome of our ongoing negotiations with our unionized work groups.  Significant increases in pay and benefits resulting from changes
to our collective bargaining agreements could have a material adverse effect on us.
 

We could be adversely affected if we are unable to have satisfactory relations with any unionized or other employee work group.
 

Our business is labor intensive.  To the extent that we are unable to have satisfactory relations with any unionized or other employee work group, our operations and our ability to execute our strategic plans could be adversely affected. In addition, any disruption by an employee work group (e.g., sick-out, slowdown, full or partial
strike, or other job action) may materially adversely affect our operations and impair our financial performance.


American is currently in mediated negotiations under the auspices of the NMB with each of its three major unions to amend their respective labor agreements. These negotiations are governed by the RLA, which prescribes no set timetable for the negotiations and mediation process. The negotiations and mediation process in the airline industry
typically is slow and sometimes contentious. The RLA prohibits the parties from engaging in self-help prior to the exhaustion of the RLA’s bargaining process.  That process is not exhausted until the NMB has declared the parties are at a bargaining impasse, one or both parties has declined the NMB’s proffer of binding arbitration, and a 30-day cooling off period has expired without the appointment of a Presidential Emergency Board.  If we are unable to reach agreement with any
of our unionized work groups, and the RLA’s bargaining process has been fully exhausted, we may be subject to lawful strikes, work stoppages or other job actions.    


In addition, the union that represents American’s pilots has filed a number of grievances, lawsuits and complaints, most of which American believes are part of a corporate campaign related to the union’s labor agreement negotiations with American. While American is vigorously defending these claims, unfavorable outcomes of one
or more of them could require American to incur additional costs, change the way we conduct some parts of our business, or otherwise adversely affect us.
 

Our insurance costs have increased substantially and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have an adverse impact on us.
 

We carry insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to our aircraft. As a result of the Terrorist Attacks, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for
claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general. While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after the Terrorist Attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to us, or significantly increase its cost, we would be adversely affected.



 



 
 

The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines through August 31, 2010, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. If the U.S. government were to cease providing such insurance in whole or in part, it is likely that we could obtain comparable
coverage in the commercial market, but we could incur substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if such coverage is available at all.  If we are unable to obtain adequate war-risk coverage at commercially reasonable rates, we would be adversely affected.
 
We may be unable to retain key management personnel.
 

We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our key management employees, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain them. Any inability to retain our key management employees, or attract and retain additional qualified management employees, could have a negative impact on us.
 
We are increasingly dependent on technology and could be adversely affected by a failure or disruption of our computer, communications or other technology systems.
 

We are heavily and increasingly dependent on technology to operate our business, reduce our costs and enhance customer service.  The computer and communications systems on which we rely could be disrupted due to various events, some of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks,
equipment failures, system implementation failures, software failures and computer viruses and hackers. We have taken certain steps to help reduce the risk of some (but not all) of these potential disruptions. There can be no assurance, however, that the measures we have taken are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions or failures of these systems. Any substantial or repeated failure of these systems could impact our operations and customer service, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenues, and
increased costs, and generally harm our business. Moreover, a failure of certain of our vital systems could limit our ability to operate our flights for an extended period of time, which would have a material adverse impact on our operations and our business.  In addition, we will need to continue to make significant investments in technology to pursue initiatives to reduce costs and enhance customer service.  If we are unable to make these investments, our business could be negatively impacted.
 

We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity which might result from an accident involving any of our aircraft.
 

If one of our aircraft were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. The insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. In the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. In addition, any accident
involving an aircraft operated by us could adversely affect the public’s perception of us.


Interruptions or disruptions in service at one or more of our primary market airports could have an adverse impact on us.


Our business is heavily dependent on our operations at our primary market airports in Dallas/Ft. Worth, Chicago, Miami, New York City and Los Angeles.  Each of these operations includes flights that gather and distribute traffic from markets in the geographic region around the primary market to other major cities.  A
significant interruption or disruption in service at one or more of our primary markets could adversely impact our operations.


The airline industry is heavily taxed.


The airline industry is subject to extensive government fees and taxation that negatively impact our revenue.  The U.S. airline industry is one of the most heavily taxed of all industries.  These fees and taxes have grown significantly in the past decade for domestic flights and various U.S. fees and taxes also are
assessed on international flights.  In addition, the governments of foreign countries in which we operate impose on U.S. airlines, including us, various fees and taxes, and these assessments have been increasing in number and amount in recent years.  Certain of these fees and taxes must be included in the fares we advertise or quote to our customers.  Due to the competitive revenue environment, many increases in these fees and taxes have been absorbed by the airline industry rather
than being passed on to the passenger.  Further increases in fees and taxes may reduce demand for air travel, and thus our revenues.


 



 
ITEM 1B