Item 1A. Risk Factors.
      
      Risks
Relating to Our Business
      
      We
may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy, including
increasing comparable store sales, enhancing our margins and increasing our
return on invested capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.
      
      We have
implemented numerous initiatives to increase comparable store sales, enhance our
margins and increase our return on invested capital in order to increase our
earnings and cash flow. If these initiatives are unsuccessful, or if we are
unable to implement the initiatives efficiently and effectively, our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely
affected.
      
      Successful
implementation of our business strategy also depends on factors specific to the
retail automotive parts industry and numerous other factors that may be beyond
our control. Adverse changes in the following factors could undermine our
business strategy:
       
      
        
          
            
              
                
                    
                      
                        ·
                      
                      
                        
                          
                            general
      economic conditions and conditions in our local markets, which could
      reduce our sales;
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      ·
                      
                        
                          
                            the
      competitive environment in the automotive aftermarket parts and
      accessories retail sector that may force us to reduce prices beyond our
      normal control or increase promotional
    spending;
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      ·
                      
                        
                          
                            changes
      in the automotive aftermarket parts manufacturing industry, such as
      consolidation, which may disrupt or sever one or more of our vendor
      relationships;
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      ·
                      
                        
                          
                            our
      ability to anticipate and meet changes in consumer preferences and/or
      needs for automotive products (particularly parts availability),
      accessories and services in a timely
manner;
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      ·
                      
                        
                          
                            our
      ability to stimulate DIY customer traffic;
  and
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      ·
                      
                        
                          
                            our
      continued ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, which depends in
      part on the types of recruiting, training, compensation and benefit
      programs we adopt or
maintain.
                          
                        
                      
                    
                
              
            
          
           
        
      
      We
will not be able to expand our business if our growth strategy is not
successful, which could negatively impact our financial results.
      
      We have
increased our store count significantly from 814 stores at the end of 1997 to
3,261 stores at December 29, 2007. We intend to continue to expand our base of
stores as part of our growth strategy, primarily by opening new stores. We may
not assure you that the implementation of this strategy will be successful. The
actual number of new stores to be opened and their success will depend on a
number of factors, including, among other things:
       
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  
                      
                        
                          ·
                        
                        
                          
                            our
      ability to manage the expansion and hire, train and retain qualified sales
      associates;
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        ·
                        
                          
                            the
      availability of potential store locations in highly visible,
      well-trafficked areas; and
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        ·
                        
                          
                            the
      negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new
      locations.
                          
                        
                      
                  
                
              
            
             
          
        
      
      We may
not assure you that we will be able to open and operate new stores on a timely
or sufficiently profitable basis or that opening new stores in markets we
already serve will not harm existing store profitability or comparable store
sales. The newly opened and existing stores' profitability will depend on our
ability to properly merchandise, market and price the products required in their
respective markets.
      
      Furthermore,
we may acquire stores or businesses from, make investments in, or enter into
strategic alliances with, companies that have stores or distribution networks in
our current markets or in areas into which we intend to expand our presence. Any
future acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances or related efforts will be
accompanied by risks, including:
       
      
        

          
             
            
              
                
                  
                      
                        
                          ·
                        
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                the
      difficulty of identifying appropriate strategic partners or acquisition
      candidates;
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        ·
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                the
      difficulty of assimilating and integrating the operations of the
      respective
entities;
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                  
                
              
            
            
              
                
                  
                    
                      
                        
                          
                              
                                
                                  ·
                                
                                
                                  
                                    
                                      
                                        the
      potential disruption to our ongoing business and diversion of our
      management's attention;
                                      
                                    
                                  
                                
                              
                              
                                ·
                                
                                  
                                    
                                      
                                        the
      inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and
      policies; and
                                      
                                    
                                  
                                
                              
                              
                                ·
                                
                                  
                                    
                                      
                                        the
      impairment of relationships with team members and customers as a result of
      changes in
management.
                                      
                                    
                                  
                                
                              
                          
                        
                      
                    
                     
                  
                
              
            
          
        
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          9
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
       
      We may
not assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other
problems encountered with these acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances
or related efforts. If we fail to successfully open and operate new stores or
make strategic acquisitions or alliances, then our financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted.
       
      
      If
overall demand for products sold by our stores slows, our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows will suffer.
      
      Overall
demand for products sold by our stores depends on many factors and may slow for
any number of reasons, including:
      
         
        
          
            
              
                  
                    
                      ·
                    
                    
                      
                        
                          
                            the
      weather, as vehicle maintenance may be deferred during periods of
      unfavorable weather;
                          
                        
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    ·
                    
                      
                        
                          
                            the
      economy, as during periods of good economic conditions, more of our DIY
      customers may pay others to repair and maintain their cars instead of
      working on their own cars. In periods of declining economic conditions,
      including higher fuel prices, higher credit costs, possible recession and
      other factors, both DIY and DIFM customers may defer vehicle maintenance
      or repair;
                          
                        
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    ·
                    
                      
                        
                          
                            the
      decline of the average age of vehicles, miles driven or number of cars on
      the road may result in a reduction in the demand for our product
      offerings; and
                          
                        
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    ·
                    
                      the
      refusal of vehicle manufacturers to make available to the automotive
      aftermarket industry diagnostic, repair and maintenance information that
      our DIY and DIFM customers require to diagnose, repair and maintain their
      vehicles may force consumers to have all diagnostic work, repairs and
      maintenance performed by the vehicle manufacturers’ dealer
      network.
                    
                  
              
            
          
        
         
      
      If any of
these factors cause overall demand for the products we sell to decline, our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will
suffer.
      
      We depend on the services of many
qualified team members and may not be able to attract and retain such qualified
team members.
      
      Our
success depends to a significant extent on the continued services and experience
of our many team members. At February 25, 2008, we employed 44,065 team members.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current qualified team
members as well as attract and retain additional qualified team members that may
be needed in the future. Our ability to maintain an adequate number of qualified
team members is highly dependent on an attractive and competitive compensation
and benefits package. If we fail to maintain such a package, our customer
service and execution levels could suffer by reason of a declining quality of
our workforce, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.
      
      If
we are unable to compete successfully against other companies in the automotive
aftermarket industry, we could lose customers and our revenues may
decline.
      
      The sale
of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive in
many ways, including location, price, name recognition and customer service. We
compete in both the DIY and DIFM categories of the automotive aftermarket
industry, and primarily with (i) national and regional retail automotive parts
chains, (ii) discount stores and mass merchandisers that carry automotive
products, (iii) wholesalers or jobber stores, (iv) independent operators and (v)
automobile dealers that supply parts. These competitors and the level of
competition vary by market. Some of our competitors may possess advantages over
us in certain markets we share, including a greater amount of marketing
activities, a larger number of stores, longer operating histories, greater name
recognition or larger and more established customer bases. Our response to these
competitive disadvantages may require us to reduce our prices beyond our normal
control or increase our promotional spending, which would lower revenue and
profitability. Competitive disadvantages may also prevent us from introducing
new product lines or require us to discontinue current product offerings or
change some of our current operating strategies. If we do not have the resources
or expertise or otherwise fail to develop successful strategies to address these
competitive disadvantages, we could lose customers and our revenues may
decline.
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          10
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
       
      Disruptions
in our relationships with vendors or in our vendors' operations could increase
our cost of goods sold.
      
      Our
business depends on developing and maintaining close relationships with our
vendors and upon the vendors' ability or willingness to sell quality products to
us at favorable prices and terms. Many factors outside of our control may harm
these relationships and the ability or willingness of these vendors to sell us
products on favorable terms. For example, financial or operational difficulties
that some of our vendors may face may increase the cost of the products we
purchase from them or the ability for us to source product from them. In
addition, the trend towards consolidation among automotive parts suppliers may
disrupt or end our relationship with some vendors, and could lead to less
competition and, consequently, higher prices.
      
      Because
we are involved in litigation from time to time, and are subject to numerous
laws and governmental regulations, we could incur substantial judgments, fines,
legal fees and other costs.
      
      We are
sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees or
other third parties for various actions. From time to time, we are involved in
litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract,
tortious conduct, employment discrimination, payment of wages, asbestos
exposure, real estate matters and product defects. The damages sought against us
in some of these litigation proceedings are substantial. Although we maintain
liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims
greatly exceeds our coverage limits or our insurance policies do not cover a
claim, it could have a material adverse affect on our business and operating
results.
      
      Additionally,
we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and governmental
regulations relating to employment matters, environmental protection, product
quality standards and building and zoning requirements. If we fail to comply
with existing or future laws or regulations, we may be subject to governmental
or judicial fines or sanctions. In addition, our capital expenses could increase
due to remediation measures that may be required if we are found to be
noncompliant with any existing or future laws or regulations.
      
      War
or acts of terrorism or the threat of either may negatively impact availability
of merchandise and adversely impact our sales.
      
      War or
acts of terrorism, or the threat of either, may have a negative impact on our
ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores. Some of our
merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult
or impossible to bring into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such
merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins
may be negatively affected.
      
      In the
event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our
business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping
merchandise to our distribution centers and stores.
      
      Risks
Relating to Our Financial Condition
      
      The
covenants governing our revolving and term loan facilities impose restrictions
on us.
      
      The terms
of our revolving and term loan facilities impose operating and financial
restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and require us to meet certain financial
tests. These restrictions may also have a negative impact on our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by significantly
limiting or prohibiting us from engaging in certain transactions,
including:
      
        
           
          
            
              
                
                    
                      
                        ·
                      
                      
                        
                          
                            
                              incurring
      or guaranteeing additional
  indebtedness;
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      ·
                      
                        
                          
                            
                              making
      capital expenditures and other
    investments;
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                
              
            
          
          
            
              
                
                  
                    
                        
                          ·
                          
                            
                              
                                
                                  incurring
      liens on our assets and engaging in sale-leaseback
      transactions;
                                
                              
                            
                          
                        
                        
                          ·
                          
                            
                              
                                
                                  issuing
      or selling capital stock of our
      subsidiaries;
                                
                              
                            
                          
                        
                        
                          ·
                          
                            
                              
                                
                                  transferring
      or selling assets currently held by us;
    and
                                
                              
                            
                          
                        
                        
                          ·
                          
                            
                              
                                
                                  engaging
      in mergers or
acquisitions.
                                
                              
                            
                          
                        
                    
                  
                
              
               
            
          
          
            
              
              
            
            
              11
              
                
              
            
            
              Table of Contents
            
          
           
        
      
      The
failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under our
credit facilities. Furthermore, our credit facilities contain certain financial
covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum coverage ratio,
which, if not maintained by us, will cause us to be in default under our credit
facilities. Any of these defaults, if not waived, could result in the
acceleration of all of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately
due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow
sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were available, it may
be on terms that are less favorable or otherwise not acceptable to
us.
      
      
         
        
          
            
                
                  
                    Item 1B