Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a variety of risks, both known and unknown. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted by the following risk factors. These risks are not the only risks that may impact our business. If overall demand for products sold by our stores slows or declines, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will suffer. Decreased demand could also negatively impact our stock price.  Overall demand for products sold by our stores depends on many factors and may slow or decrease due to any number of reasons, including: •the number and average age of vehicles being driven, because the majority of vehicles that are seven years old and older are generally no longer covered under the manufacturers' warranties and tend to need maintenance and repair.  If the number and average age of vehicles being driven were to decrease it would negatively impact demand for our products.•the economy, because during periods of declining economic conditions, both DIY and Commercial customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair; conversely, during periods of favorable economic conditions, more of our DIY customers may pay others to repair and maintain their cars or they may purchase new cars;•the weather, because milder weather conditions may lower the failure rates of automobile parts while extended periods 8Table of Contentsof rain and winter precipitation may cause our customers to defer elective maintenance and repair of their vehicles; •the average duration of manufacturer warranties and the decrease in the number of annual miles driven, because newer cars typically require fewer repairs and will be repaired by the manufacturer's dealer network using dealer parts; and lower vehicle mileage, which may be affected by gas prices and other factors, decreases the need for maintenance and repair (while higher miles driven increases the need); •technological advances and the increase in quality of vehicles manufactured, because vehicles that need less frequent maintenance and have low part failure rates will require less frequent repairs using aftermarket parts; •our vendors, because if any of our key vendors do not supply us with products on terms that are favorable to us or fail to develop new products we may not be able to meet the demands of our customers and our results of operations could be negatively affected; •our reputation and our brands, because our reputation is critical to our continued success.  If we fail to maintain high standards for, or receive negative publicity whether through social media or normal media channels relating to, product safety, quality or integrity, it could reduce demand for our products.  The product we sell is branded both in brands of our vendors and in our own private label brands.  If the perceived quality or value of the brands we sell declines in the eyes of our customers, our results of operations could be negatively affected; and•the refusal of vehicle manufacturers to make available diagnostic, repair and maintenance information to the automotive aftermarket industry that our DIY and Commercial customers require to diagnose, repair and maintain their vehicles, because this may force consumers to have a majority of diagnostic work, repairs and maintenance performed by the vehicle manufacturers' dealer network.If any of these factors cause overall demand for the products we sell to decline, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted.  If we are unable to compete successfully against other companies in the automotive aftermarket industry we may lose customers, our revenues may decline, and we may be less profitable or potentially unprofitable.  The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive in many ways, including name recognition, location, price, quality, product availability and customer service. We compete in both the DIY and Commercial categories of the automotive aftermarket industry, primarily with: (i) national and regional retail automotive parts chains, (ii) discount stores and mass merchandisers that carry automotive products, (iii) wholesalers or jobber stores, (iv) independent operators, (v) automobile dealers that supply parts and (vi) internet-based parts providers. These competitors and the level of competition vary by market. Some of our competitors may possess advantages over us in certain markets we share, including a greater amount of marketing activities, a larger number of stores, store locations, store layouts, longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger and more established customer bases, more favorable vendor relationships, lower prices, and better product warranties. Our response to these competitive disadvantages may require us to reduce our prices below our normal selling prices or increase our promotional spending, which would lower our revenue and profitability. Competitive disadvantages may also prevent us from introducing new product lines, require us to discontinue current product offerings, or change some of our current operating strategies. If we do not have the resources, expertise, consistent execution or otherwise fail to develop successful strategies to address these competitive disadvantages, we may lose customers, our revenues and profit margins may decline and we may be less profitable or potentially unprofitable.  We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy, including increasing comparable store sales, enhancing our margins and increasing our return on invested capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have implemented numerous initiatives as part of our business strategy to increase comparable store sales, enhance our margins and increase our return on invested capital in order to increase our earnings and cash flow. If we are unable to implement these initiatives efficiently and effectively, or if these initiatives are unsuccessful, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 9Table of ContentsSuccessful implementation of our business strategy also depends on factors specific to the retail automotive parts industry and numerous other factors that may be beyond our control. In addition to the aforementioned risk factors, adverse changes in the following factors could undermine our business strategy and have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow: •the competitive environment in the automotive aftermarket parts and accessories retail sector that may force us to reduce prices below our desired pricing level or increase promotional spending; •our ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and to meet customers' needs for automotive products (particularly parts availability) in a timely manner; •our ability to maintain and eventually grow DIY market share; and•our ability to continue our Commercial sales growth.For that portion of our inventory manufactured and/or sourced outside the United States, geopolitical changes, changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations, shipping related issues, natural disasters, pandemics and other factors beyond our control may increase the cost of items we purchase or create shortages which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We will not be able to expand our business if our growth strategy is not successful, including the availability of suitable locations for new store openings, the successful integration of any acquired businesses or the continued increase in supply chain capacity and efficiency, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. New Store Openings We have increased our store count significantly in the last ten years from 2,484 stores at the end of Fiscal 2001 to 3,662 stores at December 31, 2011. We intend to continue to increase the number of our stores and expand the markets we serve as part of our growth strategy, primarily by opening new stores. We may also grow our business through strategic acquisitions. We do not know whether the implementation of our growth strategy will be successful. As we open more stores it becomes more critical that we have consistent execution across our entire store chain. The actual number of new stores to be opened and their success will depend on a number of factors, including, among other things:•the availability of desirable store locations; •the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations;•the availability of financial resources, including access to capital at cost-effective interest rates; and•our ability to manage the expansion and hire, train and retain qualified sales associates.We are unsure whether we will be able to open and operate new stores on a timely or sufficiently profitable basis, or that opening new stores in markets we already serve will not harm existing store profitability or comparable store sales. The newly opened and existing stores' profitability will depend on the competition we face as well as our ability to properly merchandise, market and price the products desired by customers in these markets. Supply ChainOur store inventories are primarily replenished by shipments from our network of distribution centers, PDQ® warehouses and HUB stores.  As we service our growing store base, we will need to increase the capacity of our supply chain network in order to provide the added parts availability under our Superior Availability strategy while maintaining productivity and profitability expectations. We cannot be assured of the availability of potential locations on lease or purchase terms that would be acceptable to us, of our ability to integrate those new locations into our existing supply chain network or of our ability to increase the productivity and efficiency of our overall supply chain network to desired levels. We depend on the services of many qualified Team Members, whom we may not be able to attract and retain. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services and experience of our Team Members. At February 25, 2012, we employed approximately 53,000 Team Members. We may not be able to retain our current qualified Team Members or attract and retain additional qualified Team Members that may be needed in the future. Our ability to maintain an adequate number of qualified Team Members is highly dependent on an attractive and competitive compensation and benefits package. If we fail or are unable to maintain such a package, our customer service and execution levels could suffer by reason of a declining quality of our workforce, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10Table of ContentsDeterioration in global credit markets and changes in our credit ratings and deterioration in general macro-economic conditions, including unemployment, inflation or deflation, consumer debt levels, high fuel and energy costs or other recessionary type conditions could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Deterioration in general macro-economic conditions impacts us through (i) potential adverse effects from deteriorating and uncertain credit markets (ii) the negative impact on our suppliers and customers and (iii) an increase in operating costs from higher energy prices.Impact of Credit Market Uncertainty and Changes in Credit RatingsSignificant deterioration in the financial condition of large financial institutions in 2008 and 2009 resulted in a severe loss of liquidity and available credit in global credit markets and in more stringent borrowing terms. We can provide no assurance that the credit market events during 2008 and 2009 will not occur again in the foreseeable future. Conditions and events in the global credit market could have a material adverse effect on our access to short and long-term borrowings to finance our operations and the terms and cost of that debt. It is possible that one or more of the banks that provide us with financing under our revolving credit facility may fail to honor the terms of our existing credit facility or be financially unable to provide the unused credit. Our overall credit rating may be negatively impacted by deteriorating and uncertain credit markets or other factors which may or may not be within our control. The interest rates on our publicly issued debt and revolving credit facility are linked directly to our credit ratings. Accordingly, any negative impact on our credit rating would likely result in higher interest rates and interest expense on any borrowings under our revolving credit facility or from future issuances of public debt and less favorable terms on other operating and financing arrangements. An inability to obtain sufficient financing at cost-effective rates could have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Impact on our SuppliersOur business depends on developing and maintaining close relationships with our suppliers and on our suppliers' ability and/or willingness to sell quality products to us at favorable prices and terms. Many factors outside our control may harm these relationships and the ability or willingness of these suppliers to sell us products on favorable terms. One such factor is a general decline in the economy and economic conditions and prolonged recessionary conditions. These events could negatively affect our suppliers' operations and make it difficult for them to obtain the credit lines or loans necessary to finance their operations in the short-term or long-term and meet our product requirements.  Financial or operational difficulties that some of our suppliers may face could also increase the cost of the products we purchase from them or our ability to source product from them. We might not be able to pass our increased costs onto our customers. In addition, the trend towards consolidation among automotive parts suppliers as well as the off-shoring of manufacturing capacity to foreign countries may disrupt or end our relationship with some suppliers, and could lead to less competition and result in higher prices. We could also be negatively impacted by suppliers who might experience bankruptcies, work stoppages, labor strikes or other interruptions to or difficulties in the manufacture or supply of the products we purchase from them. Impact on our CustomersDeterioration in macro-economic conditions may have a negative impact on our customers' net worth, financial resources and disposable income. Although the macro-economic conditions have improved since 2008 and 2009, unemployment rates have remained at historically high levels coupled with low consumer confidence. This impact could reduce our customers' willingness or ability to pay for accessories, maintenance or repair of their vehicles, which results in lower sales in our stores. Higher fuel costs may also reduce the overall number of miles driven by our customers resulting in less parts failures and elective maintenance required to be completed. Impact on Operating ExpensesRising energy prices could directly impact our operating and product costs, including our merchandise distribution, commercial delivery, utility and product acquisition costs.11Table of ContentsBecause we are involved in litigation from time to time, and are subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees and other costs. We are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees or other third parties for various actions. From time to time, we are involved in litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract, tortious conduct, employment law matters, payment of wages, asbestos exposure, real estate, and product defects. The damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings are substantial. Although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to, among other things, environmental protection, product quality standards, building and zoning requirements, and employment law matters. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions, while incurring substantial legal fees and costs. In addition, our capital and operating expenses could increase due to remediation measures that may be required if we are found to be noncompliant with any existing or future laws or regulations. We work hard to maintain the privacy and security of our customer and business information and the functioning of our computer systems and website. In the event of a security breach or other cyber security incident, we could experience certain operational problems or interruptions, incur substantial additional costs, or become subject to legal or regulatory proceedings, any of which could lead to damage to our reputation in the marketplace. The nature of our business requires us to receive, retain and transmit certain personally identifying information that our customers provide to purchase products or services, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us.  While we have taken and continue to undertake significant steps to protect our customer and confidential information and the functioning of our computer systems and website, a compromise of our data security systems or those of businesses we interact with could result in information related to our customers or business being obtained by unauthorized persons or other operational problems or interruptions. We develop and update processes and maintain systems in an effort to try to prevent this from occurring, but the development and maintenance of these processes and systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Consequently, despite our efforts, the possibility of intrusion, interruption of our business, cyber security incidents and theft cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with each of these remain. While we also seek to obtain assurances that third parties we interact with will protect confidential information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held or accessed by third parties may be compromised. If a compromise of our data security or function of our computer systems or website were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and, possibly, subject us to additional legal, regulatory and operating costs and damage our reputation in the marketplace. Business interruptions may negatively impact our store hours, operability of our computer systems and the availability and cost of merchandise which may adversely impact our sales and profitability.War or acts of terrorism, hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes or other natural disasters, or the threat of any of these calamities or others, may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores, result in certain of our stores being closed for an extended period of time, negatively affect the lives of our customers or Team Members, or otherwise negatively impact our operations. Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to import into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be negatively affected.In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty receiving merchandise from our suppliers and shipping it to our stores.Terrorist attacks, war in the Middle East, or war within or between any oil producing country would likely result in an abrupt increase in the price of crude oil, gasoline, diesel fuel and energy costs. Such price increases would increase the cost of doing business for us and our suppliers, and also would negatively impact our customers' disposable income and have an adverse impact on our business, sales, profit margins and results of operations.  We rely extensively on our computer systems and the systems of our business partners to manage inventory, process transactions and report results. Any such systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events. If our computer systems or those of our business partners 12Table of Contentsfail we may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to process transactions and manage inventory.  Any such loss, if widespread or extended, could adversely affect the operation of our business and our results of operations.We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory, or market responses to such change. The growing political and scientific sentiment is that global weather patterns are being influenced by increased levels of greenhouse gases in the earth's atmosphere. This growing sentiment and the concern over climate change have led to legislative and regulatory initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. For example, proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on greenhouse gas emissions continue to be considered by policy makers in the United States. Laws enacted that directly or indirectly affect our suppliers (through an increase in the cost of production or their ability to produce satisfactory products) or our business (through an impact on our inventory availability, cost of sales, operations or demand for the products we sell) could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Significant increases in fuel economy requirements or new federal or state restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide that may be imposed on vehicles and automobile fuels could adversely affect demand for vehicles, annual miles driven or the products we sell or lead to changes in automotive technology. Compliance with any new or more stringent laws or regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws, could require additional expenditures by us or our suppliers. Our inability to respond to changes in automotive technology could adversely impact the demand for our products and our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Item 1B