Item 1A. Risk Factors.
    
    Our
business is subject to a variety of risks, both known and unknown. Our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively
impacted by the following risk factors. These risks are not the only risks that
may impact our business.
    
    Deterioration
in general macro-economic conditions, including unemployment, inflation or
deflation, consumer debt levels, high fuel and energy costs, uncertain credit
markets or other recessionary type conditions could have a negative impact on
our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows.
    
    Deterioration
in general macro-economic conditions impacts us through (i) higher operating
costs from higher energy prices, (ii) potential adverse effects from
deteriorating and uncertain credit markets and (iii) the negative impact on our
suppliers and customers.
    
    Impact
of Credit Market Uncertainty
     
    Our
overall credit rating may be negatively impacted by deteriorating and uncertain
credit markets. The interest rates on our credit facilities are linked directly
to our credit ratings. Accordingly, any negative impact on our credit rating
would likely result in higher interest rates and interest expense we pay on
borrowed funds. Additionally, we may be limited in our ability to borrow
additional funds to finance our operations. It is possible that one or more of
the banks that provides us with financing under our credit facilities may fail
to honor the terms of our existing credit facilities or be financially unable to
provide the unused credit. An inability to obtain sufficient financing at
cost-effective rates could have a materially adverse affect on our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
     
    Impact
on our Suppliers
    
    Our
business depends on developing and maintaining close relationships with our
suppliers and on our suppliers' ability or willingness to sell quality products
to us at favorable prices and terms. Many factors outside of our control may
harm these relationships and the ability or willingness of these suppliers to
sell us products on favorable terms.  One such factor is a general
decline in the economy and economic conditions and prolonged recessionary
conditions.  These events could negatively affect our suppliers’
operations and make it difficult for them to obtain the credit lines or loans
necessary to finance their operations in the short-term or long-term and meet
our product requirements.  Financial or operational difficulties that
some of our suppliers may face could also increase the cost of the products we
purchase from them or our ability to source product from them. We might not be
able to pass our increased costs onto our customers. In addition, the trend
towards consolidation among automotive parts suppliers as well as the
off-shoring of manufacturing capacity to foreign countries may disrupt or end
our relationship with some suppliers, and could lead to less competition and
result in higher prices.  We could also be negatively impacted by
suppliers who might experience bankruptcies, work stoppages, labor strikes or
other interruptions to or difficulties in the manufacture or supply of the
products we purchase from them.
    
    Impact
on our Customers
    
    Deterioration
in macro-economic conditions may have a negative impact on our customers’ net
worth, financial resources and disposable income. This impact could reduce their
willingness or ability to pay for accessories, maintenance or repair of their
vehicles, which results in lower sales in our stores. Higher fuel costs may also
reduce the overall number of miles driven by our customers resulting in less
parts failures and elective maintenance required to be completed.
    
    If
overall demand for products sold by our stores slows or declines, our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will
suffer.   Decreased demand could also negatively impact our stock
price.
    
    Overall
demand for products sold by our stores depends on many factors and may slow or
decrease due to any number of reasons, including:
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        10
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the economy, because
      during periods of declining economic conditions, as mentioned above, both
      DIY and Commercial customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair;
      conversely, during periods of favorable economic conditions, more of our
      DIY customers may pay others to repair and maintain their cars or they may
      purchase new cars;
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              changing weather patterns
      along with increased frequency or duration of extreme weather
      conditions, as elective vehicle maintenance may be deferred during
      periods of unfavorable weather;
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the average duration of
      manufacturer warranties and the decrease in the number of annual miles
      driven, because newer cars typically require fewer repairs and will
      be repaired by the manufacturer’s dealer network using dealer parts; and
      lower vehicle mileage decreases the need for maintenance and repair (while
      higher miles driven increases the
need);
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the quality of vehicles
      manufactured, because vehicles that have low part failure rates
      will require less frequent repairs using aftermarket parts;
      and
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the refusal of vehicle
      manufacturers to make available diagnostic, repair and maintenance
      information to the automotive aftermarket
      industry that our DIY and Commercial customers require to diagnose, repair
      and maintain their vehicles, because this may force consumers to
      have all diagnostic work, repairs and maintenance performed by the vehicle
      manufacturers’ dealer network.
            
          
    
    
    If any of
these factors cause overall demand for the products we sell to decline, our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will
suffer.
    
    If
we are unable to compete successfully against other companies in the automotive
aftermarket industry we may lose customers, our revenues may decline, and we may
be less profitable or potentially unprofitable.
    
    The sale
of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive in
many ways, including name recognition, location, price, quality, product
availability and customer service. We compete in both the DIY and Commercial
categories of the automotive aftermarket industry, primarily with: (i) national
and regional retail automotive parts chains, (ii) discount stores and mass
merchandisers that carry automotive products, (iii) wholesalers or jobber
stores, (iv) independent operators and (v) automobile dealers that supply parts.
These competitors and the level of competition vary by market. Some of our
competitors may possess advantages over us in certain markets we share,
including a greater amount of marketing activities, a larger number of stores,
store locations, store layouts, longer operating histories, greater name
recognition, larger and more established customer bases, lower prices, and
better product warranties. Our response to these competitive disadvantages may
require us to reduce our prices below our normal selling prices or increase our
promotional spending, which would lower our revenue and profitability.
Competitive disadvantages may also prevent us from introducing new product
lines, require us to discontinue current product offerings, or change some of
our current operating strategies. If we do not have the resources or expertise,
or otherwise fail to develop successful strategies to address these competitive
disadvantages, we may lose customers, our revenues and profit margins may
decline and we may be less profitable or potentially unprofitable.
     
    We depend on the services of many
qualified Team Members, whom we may not be able to attract and
retain.
    
    Our
success depends to a significant extent on the continued services and experience
of our Team Members. At February 26, 2010, we employed approximately 49,000 Team
Members. We may not be able to retain our current qualified Team Members or
attract and retain additional qualified Team Members that may be needed in the
future. Our ability to maintain an adequate number of qualified Team Members is
highly dependent on an attractive and competitive compensation and benefits
package. If we fail or are unable to maintain such a package, our customer
service and execution levels could suffer by reason of a declining quality of
our workforce, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.
    
    We
may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy, including
increasing comparable store sales, enhancing our margins and increasing our
return on invested capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        11
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    We have
implemented numerous initiatives as part of our business strategy, including
four key strategies introduced in 2008, to increase comparable store sales,
enhance our margins and increase our return on invested capital in order to
increase our earnings and cash flow. If we are unable to implement these
initiatives efficiently and effectively, or if these initiatives are
unsuccessful, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows could be adversely affected.
    
    Successful
implementation of our business strategy also depends on factors specific to the
retail automotive parts industry and numerous other factors that may be beyond
our control. In addition to the aforementioned risk factors, adverse changes in
the following factors could undermine our business strategy and have a material
adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and
cash flow:
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      competitive environment in the automotive aftermarket parts and
      accessories retail sector that may force us to reduce prices below our
      desired pricing level or increase promotional
  spending;
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              our
      ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and to meet
      customers’ needs for automotive products (particularly parts availability)
      in a timely manner;
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              our
      ability to maintain and eventually grow DIY market share;
    and
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              our
      ability to continue our Commercial sales growth at a more rapid pace than
      DIY and attain a 50/50 DIY and Commercial sales
  mix.
            
          
    
    
    We
will not be able to expand our business if our growth strategy is not
successful, including the availability of suitable locations for new store
openings or the successful integration of any acquired businesses, which could
adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows.
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              New Store
      Openings
            
          
    
     
    We have
increased our store count significantly from 814 stores at the end of Fiscal
1997 to 3,420 stores at January 2, 2010. We intend to continue to increase the
number of our stores and expand the markets we serve as part of our growth
strategy, primarily by opening new stores. We may also grow our business through
strategic acquisitions. We do not know whether the implementation of our growth
strategy will be successful. The actual number of new stores to be opened and
their success will depend on a number of factors, including, among other
things:
    
    · the
availability of potential store locations;
    · the
negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new
locations;
    · the
availability of financial resources, including access to capital at
cost-effective interest rates; and
    · our
ability to manage the expansion and hire, train and retain qualified sales
associates.
    
    We are
unsure whether we will be able to open and operate new stores on a timely or
sufficiently profitable basis, or that opening new stores in markets we already
serve will not harm existing store profitability or comparable store sales. The
newly opened and existing stores' profitability will depend on the competition
we face as well as our ability to properly merchandise, market and price the
products desired by customers in these markets.
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              Acquisitions,
      Investments or Strategic Alliances
            
          
    
    
    We may
acquire stores or businesses from, make investments in, or enter into strategic
alliances with companies that have stores or distribution networks in our
current markets or in areas into which we intend to expand our presence. Any
future acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances or related efforts will be
accompanied by risks, including but not limited to:
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      difficulty of identifying appropriate strategic partners or acquisition
      candidates;
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              securing
      adequate financing on cost-effective terms for acquisition or
      post-acquisition expenditures;
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      potential disruption to our ongoing business and diversion of our
      management's attention;
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      inability or failure to discover liabilities prior to completion of an
      acquisition, including the assumption of legal
  liabilities;
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      difficulty of assimilating and integrating the operations of the
      respective entities to realize anticipated economic, operational or other
      favorable benefits;
            
          
    
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        12
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and
      policies;
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      inability or failure to retain key personnel from the acquired business;
      and
            
          
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      impairment of relationships with Team Members and customers as a result of
      changes in management.
            
          
    
    
    We are
unsure whether we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other
problems encountered with any acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances or
related efforts. If we fail to successfully open and operate new stores or make
strategic acquisitions or alliances, then our business, financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted.
    
    Because
we are involved in litigation from time to time, and are subject to numerous
laws and governmental regulations, we could incur substantial judgments, fines,
legal fees and other costs.
    
    We are
sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees or
other third parties for various actions. From time to time, we are involved in
litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract,
tortious conduct, employment discrimination, payment of wages, asbestos
exposure, real estate, and product defects. The damages sought against us in
some of these litigation proceedings are substantial. Although we maintain
liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims
were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance
policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse affect on our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows.
    
    Additionally,
we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and governmental
regulations relating to environmental protection, product quality standards,
building and zoning requirements, as well as employment law matters. If we fail
to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, we may be subject to
governmental or judicial fines or sanctions, while incurring substantial legal
fees and costs. In addition, our capital expenses could increase due to
remediation measures that may be required if we are found to be noncompliant
with any existing or future laws or regulations.
    
    We
may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory, or market
responses to such change.
     
    The
growing political and scientific sentiment is that global weather patterns are
being influenced by increased levels of greenhouse gases in the earth’s
atmosphere. This growing sentiment and the concern over climate change have led
to legislative and regulatory initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gas
emissions. For example, proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on
greenhouse gas emissions continue to be considered by policy makers in the
United States. Laws enacted that directly or indirectly affect our suppliers
(through an increase in the cost of production or their ability to produce
satisfactory products) or our business (through an impact on our inventory
availability, cost of sales, operations or demand for the products we sell)
could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows.  Significant increases in fuel economy requirements or
new federal or state restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide that may be
imposed on vehicles and automobile fuels could adversely affect demand for
vehicles, annual miles driven or the products we sell or lead to changes in
automotive technology.  Compliance with any new or more stringent laws
or regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws, could require
additional expenditures by us or our suppliers. Our inability to respond to
changes in automotive technology could adversely impact the demand for our
products and our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.
     
    War
or acts of terrorism, or the threat of either, may negatively impact the
availability and cost of merchandise and our customers and adversely impact our
sales and profitability.
    
    War or
acts of terrorism, or the threat of either, may have a negative impact on our
ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores. Some of our
merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult
or impossible to import into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such
merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins
may be negatively affected.
    
    In the
event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our
business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping
merchandise to our distribution centers and stores.
    
    Furthermore,
terrorist attacks, war in the Middle East, or war within or between any oil
producing country 
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        13
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    would likely result in an
abrupt increase in the price of crude oil, gasoline, diesel fuel and energy
costs. Such price increases would increase the cost of doing business for us and
our suppliers, and also would negatively impact our customers' disposable income
and have an adverse impact on our business, sales, profit margins and results of
operations.
     
    Item 1B