Item 1A.
                      
                       
                      
                        Risk
      Factors.
                      
                    
                
              
               
            
          
        
      
      Risks
Relating to Our Business
      
      If
overall demand for products sold by our stores slows or declines, our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will
suffer.   Decreased demand could also negatively impact our stock
price.
      
      Overall
demand for products sold by our stores depends on many factors and may slow or
decrease due to any number of reasons, including:
       
      
        
        
        
          
            
              
                
                  
                      
                        
                          
                            ●
                          
                        
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                the economy, because
      during periods of declining economic conditions (including higher
      unemployment, lower wages, higher credit costs or unavailability of
      credit, and higher fuel or energy prices), both DIY and Commercial
      customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair; conversely, during
      periods of favorable economic conditions, more of our DIY customers may
      pay others to repair and maintain their cars or they may purchase new
      cars;
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          ●
                        
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                the weather, as vehicle
      maintenance may be deferred during periods of unfavorable
      weather;
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          ●
                        
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                the average duration of
      manufacturer warranties and the decrease in the number of annual miles
      driven, because newer cars typically require fewer repairs and will
      be repaired by the manufacturer’s dealer network using dealer parts; and
      lower vehicle mileage decreases the need for maintenance and repair (while
      higher miles driven increases the
  need);
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          ●
                        
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                the quality of vehicles
      manufactured, because vehicles that have high part failure rates
      will require more frequent repairs using aftermarket parts;
      and
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          ●
                        
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                the refusal of vehicle
      manufacturers to make available diagnostic, repair and maintenance
      information to the automotive aftermarket industry that our DIY and
      Commercial customers require to diagnose, repair and maintain their
      vehicles may force consumers to have all diagnostic work, repairs and
      maintenance performed by the vehicle manufacturers’ dealer
      network.
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                  
                
              
            
             
          
        
      
      If any of
these factors cause overall demand for the products we sell to decline, our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will
suffer.
      
      Deterioration
in general economic conditions, including unemployment, inflation or deflation,
consumer debt levels or unavailability of credit and high energy costs will
likely have a negative impact on our customers’ ability to purchase our products
and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will
suffer.
      
      The deterioration in general
macro-economic conditions that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2008 led
many U.S. companies to announce plant closings and employee layoffs, which
resulted in higher unemployment that may continue for a prolonged period of
time.  Unemployment of our customers or any decrease in the market
value of their homes would have a negative impact on our customers’ net worth
and financial resources, and could reduce their willingness or ability to pay
for accessories, maintenance or repair of their vehicles.  Although
the price of gasoline decreased substantially in November and December of 2008,
the price of fuel or other energy resources may increase substantially in the
future.  Higher fuel and energy costs may reduce the amount of
customers’ disposable income available to purchase our products, as well as
reduce the number of miles driven. Rising energy prices may impact demand for
the products we sell, overall transaction count and our
profitability.  In addition, higher energy prices impact our
merchandise distribution, commercial delivery, utility and product costs, and
inflation or deflation could also result in a potentially material negative
impact on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash
flows.
      
      If
we are unable to compete successfully against other companies in the automotive
aftermarket industry we may lose customers, our revenues may decline, and we may
be less profitable or potentially unprofitable.
      
      The sale
of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive in
many ways, including name recognition, location, price, quality, product
availability and customer service. We compete in both the DIY and
Commercial categories of the automotive aftermarket industry, primarily with:
(i) national and regional retail 
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          9
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      automotive
parts chains, (ii) discount stores and mass merchandisers that carry automotive
products, (iii) wholesalers or jobber stores, (iv) independent operators and (v)
automobile dealers that supply parts. These competitors and the level of
competition vary by market. Some of our competitors may possess advantages over
us in certain markets we share, including a greater amount of marketing
activities, a larger number of stores, store locations, store layouts, longer
operating histories, greater name recognition, larger and more established
customer bases, lower prices, and better product warranties. Our response to
these competitive disadvantages may require us to reduce our prices below our
normal selling prices or increase our promotional spending, which would lower
revenue and profitability. Competitive disadvantages may also prevent us from
introducing new product lines, require us to discontinue current product
offerings, or change some of our current operating strategies. If we do not have
the resources or expertise, or otherwise fail to develop successful strategies
to address these competitive disadvantages, we may lose customers, our revenues
and profit margins may decline and we may be less profitable or potentially
unprofitable.
      
      Disruptions
in our relationships with vendors, or disruptions in or changes in our vendors'
operations, could increase our cost of goods sold and/or affect the supply of
automotive parts and supplies we sell.
      
      Our
business depends on developing and maintaining close relationships with our
vendors and on our vendors' ability or willingness to sell quality products to
us at favorable prices and terms. Many factors outside of our control may harm
these relationships and the ability or willingness of these vendors to sell us
products on favorable terms. For example, financial or operational difficulties
that some of our vendors may face could increase the cost of the products we
purchase from them or our ability to source product from them. In addition, the
trend towards consolidation among automotive parts suppliers as well as the
off-shoring of manufacturing capacity to foreign countries may disrupt or end
our relationship with some vendors, and could lead to less competition and
result in higher prices.  We could also be negatively impacted by
suppliers who might experience work stoppages, labor strikes or other
interruptions to or difficulties in the manufacture or supply of the products we
purchase from them.
       
      Deteriorating
and uncertain credit markets could negatively impact our vendors, as well as our
liquidity and ability to secure additional capital at favorable cost-effective
terms in the future.
      
      Impact
on the Company’s Suppliers
      
      During
the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company, our suppliers (also referred to as
vendors) and our customers were exposed to deteriorating and uncertain credit
markets.  The general decline in the economy and economic conditions
could negatively affect our suppliers by making it difficult for them to obtain
the credit lines or loans necessary to finance their operations in the
short-term, or long-term.
      
      Additionally,
if any of the major U. S. automobile manufacturers files a petition in
bankruptcy, or if other factors result in a substantial reduction in the number
of new cars manufactured, or in a company-wide shut-down, it would likely have a
material negative short-term (as well as potentially long-term) impact on the
operations and cash flows of some of our suppliers.  Any such negative
impacts to our suppliers will likely result in the loss of certain suppliers
and/or in higher product costs.
      
      Impact
on the Company
      
      Supplier
bankruptcies would likely decrease the production output and supply of domestic
(and possibly foreign) automobile parts and accessories, thereby decreasing the
availability and increasing the cost of our parts and accessories.  We
might not be able to pass our increased costs onto our customers. Any increased
per unit costs of our suppliers, would likely result in the Company paying a
higher per unit price for parts and accessories, potentially resulting in higher
cost of goods sold, lower gross profit margins and reduced operating profits if
such increased costs could not be passed onto our customers.
       
      Our
overall credit rating may be negatively impacted by the deteriorating and
uncertain credit markets.  (See Item 7., Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Credit
Ratings.)  The interest rates on our credit facilities are linked
directly to our credit ratings. Accordingly, any negative impact on our credit
rating would likely result in higher interest rates and interest expense we pay
on borrowed funds. Additionally, we may be limited in our ability to borrow
additional funds to finance our operations. In light of 
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          10
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      the
uncertainty in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more of the banks
that provides us with financing under our credit facilities may fail to honor
the terms of our existing credit facilities or be financially unable to provide
the unused credit. An inability to obtain sufficient financing at cost-effective
rates could have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.
       
      We depend on the services of many
qualified Team Members, whom we may not be able to attract and
retain.
      
      Our
success depends to a significant extent on the continued services and experience
of our Team Members. At March 2, 2009, we employed 47,582 Team Members. We may
not be able to retain our current qualified Team Members, or attract and retain
additional qualified Team Members that may be needed in the future. Our ability
to maintain an adequate number of qualified Team Members is highly dependent on
an attractive and competitive compensation and benefits package. If we fail or
are unable to maintain such a package, our customer service and execution levels
could suffer by reason of a declining quality of our workforce, which could
adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows.
      
      We
may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy, including
increasing comparable store sales, enhancing our margins and increasing our
return on invested capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.
      
      We have
implemented numerous initiatives as part of our business strategy, including
four key turnaround strategies introduced in 2008, to increase comparable store
sales, enhance our margins and increase our return on invested capital in order
to increase our earnings and cash flow. If we are unable to implement these
initiatives efficiently and effectively, or if these initiatives are
unsuccessful, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows could be adversely affected.
      
      Successful
implementation of our business strategy also depends on factors specific to the
retail automotive parts industry and numerous other factors that may be beyond
our control. Adverse changes in the following factors could undermine our
business strategy and have a material adverse affect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flow:
       
      
        
          
            
              
                  
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        
                          
                            
                              general
      economic conditions, including the current U.S. recession which could
      continue into the future, and unfavorable conditions in our local markets,
      which could reduce our sales;
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      ●
                    
                    
                      
                        
                          
                            
                              the
      competitive environment in the automotive aftermarket parts and
      accessories retail sector that may force us to reduce prices below our
      desired pricing level or increase promotional
      spending;
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                  
              
            
          
        
        
          
            
              
                
                  
                      
                        
                          ●
                        
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                
                                  changes
      in the automotive aftermarket parts manufacturing industry, such as
      manufacturer consolidation or closures, which may disrupt or sever one or
      more of our supplier relationships and increase the cost of the parts and
      accessories we sell;
                                
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          ●
                        
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                
                                  our
      ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and to meet
      customers’ needs for automotive products (particularly parts availability)
      in a timely manner;
                                
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          ●
                        
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                
                                  our
      ability to stimulate DIY customer traffic as well as grow our Commercial
      business; and
                                
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          ●
                        
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                
                                  our
      continued ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, which depends in
      part on the types of recruiting, training, compensation and benefit
      programs we adopt or
  maintain.
                                
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                  
                
              
            
             
          
        
      
      We
will not be able to expand our business if our growth strategy is not
successful, including the availability of suitable locations for new store
openings or the successful integration of any acquired businesses, which could
adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows.
      
      New Store
Openings
       
      We have
increased our store count significantly from 814 stores at the end of fiscal
1997 to 3,368 stores at January 3, 2009. We intend to continue to increase the
number of our stores and expand the markets we serve as part of our growth
strategy, primarily by opening new stores. We may also grow our business through
strategic acquisitions. We do not know whether the implementation of our growth
strategy will be successful. The actual number of new stores to be opened and
their success will depend on a number of factors, including, among other

       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          11
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      things:
       
      
        
          
            
              
                  
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        
                          
                            
                              the
      availability of potential store
      locations;
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      ●
                    
                    
                      
                        
                          
                            
                              the
      negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new
      locations;
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                  
              
            
          
        
        
          
            
              
                
                  
                    
                      
                          
                            
                              ●
                            
                            
                              
                                
                                  
                                    
                                      the
      availability of financial resources, including access to capital at
      cost-effective interest rates;
  and
                                    
                                  
                                
                              
                            
                          
                          
                            
                              ●
                            
                            
                              
                                
                                  
                                    
                                      our
      ability to manage the expansion and hire, train and retain qualified sales
      associates.
                                    
                                  
                                
                              
                            
                          
                      
                    
                  
                
              
            
             
          
        
      
      We are
unsure whether we will be able to open and operate new stores on a timely or
sufficiently profitable basis, or that opening new stores in markets we already
serve will not harm existing store profitability or comparable store sales. The
newly opened and existing stores' profitability will depend on the competition
we face as well as our ability to properly merchandise, market and price the
products desired by customers in these markets.
      
      Acquisitions,
Investments or Strategic Alliances
      
      We may
acquire stores or businesses from, make investments in, or enter into strategic
alliances with companies that have stores or distribution networks in our
current markets or in areas into which we intend to expand our presence. Any
future acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances or related efforts will be
accompanied by risks, including but not limited to:
       
      
        
          
            
              
                
                    
                      
                        
                          ●
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                
                                  the
      difficulty of identifying appropriate strategic partners or acquisition
      candidates;
                                
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                      
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                
                                  securing
      adequate financing on cost-effective terms for acquisition or
      post-acquisition
    expenditures;
                                
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                      
                        the
      potential disruption to our ongoing business and diversion of our
      management's attention;
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                      
                        inability
      or failure to discover liabilities prior to completion of an acquisition,
      including the assumption of legal liabilities;
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                      
                        the
      difficulty of assimilating and integrating the operations of the
      respective entities to realize anticipated economic, operational or other
      favorable benefits;
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                      
                        the
      inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and
      policies;
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                      
                        inability
      or failure to retain key personnel from the acquired business;
      and
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                      
                        the
      impairment of relationships with team members and customers as a result of
      changes in management.
                      
                    
                
              
               
            
          
        
      
      We are
unsure whether we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other
problems encountered with any acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances or
related efforts. If we fail to successfully open and operate new stores or make
strategic acquisitions or alliances, then our business, financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted.
      
      Because
we are involved in litigation from time to time, and are subject to numerous
laws and governmental regulations, we could incur substantial judgments, fines,
legal fees and other costs.
      
      We are
sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees or
other third parties for various actions. From time to time, we are involved in
litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract,
tortious conduct, employment discrimination, payment of wages, asbestos
exposure, real estate, and product defects. The damages sought against us in
some of these litigation proceedings are substantial. Although we maintain
liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims
were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance
policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse affect on our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows.
      
      Additionally,
we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and governmental
regulations relating to environmental protection, product quality standards,
building and zoning requirements, as well as employment law matters. If we fail
to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, we may be subject to
governmental or judicial fines or sanctions, while incurring substantial legal
fees and costs. In addition, our capital expenses could increase due to
remediation measures that may be required if we are found to be noncompliant
with any existing or future laws or regulations.
      
       
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          12
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      War
or acts of terrorism, or the threat of either, may negatively impact the
availability and cost of merchandise and our customers and adversely impact our
sales and profitability.
       
      War or
acts of terrorism, or the threat of either, may have a negative impact on our
ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores. Some of our
merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult
or impossible to import into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such
merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins
may be negatively affected.
      
      In the
event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our
business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping
merchandise to our distribution centers and stores.
      
      Furthermore,
terrorist attacks, war in the Middle East, or war within or between any oil
producing country would likely result in an abrupt increase in the price of
crude oil, gasoline, diesel fuel and energy costs. Such price increases would
increase the cost of doing business for us and our suppliers, and also would
negatively impact our customers' disposable income and have an adverse impact on
our business, sales, profit margins and results of operations.
      
      Risks
Relating to Our Financial Condition
      
      The
covenants governing our revolving and term loan facilities impose restrictions
on us.
      
      The terms
of our revolving and term loan facilities include covenants that impose
operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and require us
to meet certain financial ratios and conditions. These restrictions may also
have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows by significantly limiting or prohibiting us from
engaging in certain transactions, including:
       
      
        
          
            
              
                
                    
                      
                        
                          ●
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                
                                  
                                    incurring
      or guaranteeing additional
      indebtedness;
                                  
                                
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                      
                        
                          
                            
                              
                                
                                  
                                    making
      capital expenditures and other
      investments;
                                  
                                
                              
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                      
                        
                          incurring
      liens on our assets and engaging in sale-leaseback
      transactions;
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                      
                        
                          issuing
      or selling capital stock of our subsidiaries;
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                      
                        
                          transferring
      or selling assets currently held by us; and
                        
                      
                    
                    
                      
                        ●
                      
                      
                        
                          engaging
      in mergers or acquisitions.
                        
                      
                    
                
              
               
            
          
        
      
      The
failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under our
credit facilities. Furthermore, our credit facilities contain certain financial
covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum coverage ratio,
which, if not maintained by us, will cause us to be in default under our credit
facilities. Any of these defaults, if not waived, could result in the
acceleration of all of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately
due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow
sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were available, it may
be on terms that are less favorable or otherwise not acceptable to
us.
       
      
        
          
            
              
                  
                    
                      Item 1B