Item 1A. Risk Factors        

Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company's financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be
considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 


The matters relating to the Company's past stock option practices and the restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements may result in additional litigation and
government enforcement actions.  

The findings from the Company's investigation into its past stock option granting practices and the resulting restatement of prior financial statements in its 2006
Form 10-K have exposed the Company to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. As 

13




 

described
in Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," several derivative complaints and a class action complaint have been filed in state and federal courts against the Company and certain
current and former directors and executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to past stock option grants. The Company has provided the results of its investigation to the SEC and the United
States Attorney's Office for the Northern District of California, and the Company has responded to their requests for documents and additional information. The Company intends to continue to provide
its full cooperation. 

On
April 24, 2007, the SEC filed an enforcement action against two former officers of the Company. In announcing the lawsuit, the SEC stated that it would not bring an enforcement action
against the Company based in part on the Company's "swift, extensive, and extraordinary cooperation in the Commission's investigation." According to the SEC's statement, the Company's "cooperation
consisted of, among other things, prompt self-reporting, an independent internal investigation, the sharing of the results of that investigation with the government, and the implementation
of new controls designed to prevent the recurrence of fraudulent conduct." 

No
assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings, or government enforcement actions relating to the Company's past stock option practices. These and related
matters have required, and will continue to require, the Company to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax, and other professional services, and may divert management's attention from
the Company's business. If the Company is subject to adverse findings, it could be required to pay damages and penalties and might face additional remedies that could harm its financial condition and
operating results. 

Global markets for personal computers, digital music devices, mobile communication devices, and related peripherals and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid
technological change. If the Company is unable to compete effectively in these markets, its financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.  

The Company competes in global markets that are highly competitive and characterized by aggressive price cutting, with its resulting downward pressure on gross margins,
frequent introduction of new products and products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price/performance characteristics, rapid adoption of
technological and product advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers. 

The
Company's ability to compete successfully depends heavily on its ability to ensure a continuing and timely introduction of new innovative products and technologies to the marketplace. The Company
believes it is unique in that it designs and develops virtually the entire solution for its personal computers, consumer electronics, and mobile communication devices, including the hardware,
operating system, several software applications, and related services. As a result, the Company must make significant investments in research and development. By contrast, many of the Company's
competitors seek to compete aggressively on price and maintain very low cost structures. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins, its
financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. 

In
the market for personal computers and peripherals, the Company faces a significant number of competitors, many of which have broader product lines and larger installed customer bases. There has
also been a trend toward consolidation that has resulted in larger and potentially stronger competitors. Price competition has been particularly intense as competitors selling Windows-based personal
computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. The Company also faces increased competition in certain of its key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and
consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. An increasing number of Internet devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers
compete for market share with the Company's existing products. 

14




 


The
Company is currently the only maker of hardware using the Mac OS. The Mac OS has a minority market share in the personal computer market, which is dominated by makers of computers using competing
operating systems, most notably Windows. The Company's financial condition and operating results substantially depend on its ability to continually develop improvements to the Mac platform to maintain
perceived design and functional advantages. Use of unauthorized copies of the Mac OS on other companies' hardware products may result in decreased demand for the Company's hardware products, and
materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. 

The
Company is currently focused on opportunities related to digital content distribution, consumer electronic devices, including iPod and Apple TV, and mobile communication devices, including iPhone.
The Company faces substantial competition from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources, as well as established hardware, software, and digital content
supplier relationships, and also competes with illegitimate ways to obtain digital content. The Company expects competition to intensify as competitors attempt to imitate the Company's approach to
providing these components seamlessly within their individual offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions. Some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and
experience, and they may be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to provide products and
services that effectively compete. 

To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions.  

Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries, the Company must continually introduce new
products and technologies, enhance existing products, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors,
including timely and successful completion of development efforts, market acceptance, the Company's ability to manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp issues, the
availability of application software for new products, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in
appropriate quantities and costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality or
other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect new product introductions and transitions will have on financial condition
and operating results. 

The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk.  

The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value and
accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees for orders of products and components that have been cancelled. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever
events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the Company determines that impairment exists, it records a write-down equal to the
amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds its fair market value. Although the Company believes its inventory, asset, and related provisions are currently adequate, given the rapid and
unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the global personal computer, consumer electronics, and mobile communication industries, no assurance can be given that the Company will not incur
additional inventory or asset related charges. Such charges have had, and may have, a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 

The
Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. Because the Company's markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid
technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient inventories of components or products. Consistent with industry
practice, components are normally acquired through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand. Such purchase commitments typically cover forecasted
component and 

15




 


manufacturing
requirements for 30 to 150 days. The Company's financial condition and operating results have been in the past and may in the future be materially adversely affected by the
Company's ability to manage its inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns. 

Future operating results depend upon the Company's ability to obtain key components, including microprocessors and NAND flash memory, at favorable prices and in sufficient
quantities.  

Because the Company currently obtains certain key components, including microprocessors, enclosures, certain LCDs, certain optical drives, and application-specific integrated
circuits ("ASICs"), from single or limited sources, the Company is subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources,
including NAND flash memory, DRAM memory, and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company has entered into
certain agreements for the supply of critical components at favorable pricing, but there is no guarantee that the Company will be
able to extend or renew these agreements on favorable terms upon expiration or otherwise obtain favorable pricing in the future. Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply
shortages and/or price increases that can have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. The Company expects to experience decreases in its gross margin percentage in
fiscal year 2008, as compared to levels achieved during fiscal year 2007, due in part to current and expected future price increases for certain components. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Gross Margin." 

The
Company's new products often use custom components from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. Where a
component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers' yields have matured. The Company and other producers in the personal computer, consumer
electronics and mobile communication industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom
components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, consumer electronics or mobile communication industries. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices may be
affected if producers decide to concentrate on the production of components other than those customized to meet the Company's requirements. If the supply of a key component for a new or existing
product were delayed or constrained, or if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely
affected. 

The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistics services provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the U.S.  


Most of the Company's components and products are manufactured in whole or in part by third-party manufacturers, most of which are located outside of the U.S. A significant
concentration of this outsourced manufacturing is currently performed by only a few third-party manufacturers, often in single locations. The Company has also outsourced much of its transportation and
logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company's direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect such diminished
control will have on the quality or quantity of products or services, or the Company's flexibility to respond to changing conditions. In addition, the Company relies on third-party manufacturers to
adhere to the Company's supplier code of conduct. Although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible to the
consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation, financial condition and operating results. 

Final
assembly of the Company's products is currently performed in the Company's manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland, and by external vendors in California, Korea, China and the Czech Republic.
Currently, 

16




 


the
supply and manufacture of many critical components is performed by sole-sourced third-party vendors in the U.S., China, Japan, Korea, and Singapore. Sole-sourced third-
party vendors in China perform final assembly of substantially all of the Company's portable products, including MacBook Pros, MacBooks, iPods and iPhones. If manufacturing or logistics in these
locations is disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political
issues, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

The Company relies on third-party digital content, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  

The Company contracts with third parties to offer their digital content through the Company's iTunes Store. The Company pays substantial fees to obtain the rights to this
content. The Company's licensing arrangements with these third parties are short-term and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all.
Some third-party content providers currently or may in the future offer competing products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license their
content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Company's access to, or increase the total cost of, such content. If the Company is unable to continue to
offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand its geographic reach, the Company's financial condition and operating results may be materially
adversely affected. 

Many
third-party content providers require that the Company provide certain digital rights management ("DRM") and other security solutions. If these requirements change, the Company may have to
develop or license new technology to provide these solutions. There is no assurance the Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. In
addition, certain countries have passed or may propose legislation that would force the Company to license its DRM, which could lessen the protection of content and subject it to piracy and could also
affect arrangements with the Company's content providers. 


The Company relies on access to third-party patents and intellectual property, and the Company's future results could be materially adversely affected if it is alleged
or found to have infringed intellectual property rights.  

Many of the Company's products are designed to include third-party intellectual property, and it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various
aspects of its products and business methods. Although the Company believes that, based on past experience and industry practice,
such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms or at all. 


Because
of technological changes in the global personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid issuance of new patents, it
is possible that certain components of the Company's products and business methods may unknowingly infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, the
Company has been notified that it may be infringing such rights. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can consume significant time and expense, and several pending claims are in
various stages of evaluation. In certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained
on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. If there is a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain products or a successful claim of
infringement against the Company requires it to pay royalties to a third party, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Information regarding
certain claims and litigation related to alleged patent infringement and other matters is set forth in Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." In management's opinion, the Company does not have a
potential liability for damages or royalties from any known current legal proceedings or claims related to the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights that would individually or
in the 

17




 


aggregate
have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. However, the results of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail to
prevail in any of the matters related to infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others described in Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," or should several of these
matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

With
the June 2007 introduction of iPhone, the Company has begun to compete with mobile communication device companies that hold significant patent portfolios. Regardless of the scope or validity of
such patents or the merits of any potential patent claims by competitors, the Company may have to engage in protracted litigation, enter into expensive agreements or settlements and/or modify its
products. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 

The Company's products experience quality problems from time to time that can result in decreased sales and operating margin.  

The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that can contain defects in design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications,
such as those sold by the Company, often contain "bugs" that can unexpectedly interfere with the software's operation. Defects may also occur in components and products the Company purchases from
third parties. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware and software it sells. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, harm to
reputation, and significant warranty and
other expenses, and could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 

The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate for a variety of reasons.  

The Company's profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company's software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher
gross margins than certain of the Company's other products, including third-party content from the iTunes Store. Gross margins on the Company's hardware products vary across product lines and can
change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company's direct sales generally have higher
associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. In addition, the Company's gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be
materially adversely impacted as a result of a shift in product, geographic or channel mix, or new product announcements. The Company generally sells more products during the third month of each
quarter than it does during either of the first two months. This sales pattern can produce pressure on the Company's internal infrastructure during the third month of a quarter and may adversely
affect the Company's ability to predict its financial results accurately. Furthermore, the Company has typically experienced greater net sales in the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared to other
quarters in the fiscal year due to seasonal demand related to the holiday season and the beginning of the school year. Developments late in a quarter, such as
lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company's products, an internal systems failure, or failure of one of the Company's key logistics, components supply, or manufacturing
partners, could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 

The Company currently relies on a single cellular network carrier for iPhone in each of the U.S., U.K., Germany and France.  

AT&T, O2, T-Mobile and Orange are the Company's cellular network carriers for iPhone in the U.S., U.K., Germany and France, respectively. If these carriers cannot
successfully compete with other carriers in their markets for any reason, including but not limited to the quality and coverage of wireless voice and data services, performance and timely
build-out of advanced wireless networks, and pricing and terms of 

18




 

end-user
contracts, iPhone sales may be adversely affected. Because the Company's agreements require each carrier to make revenue-generating payments to the Company, a carrier's
non-performance under or termination of an agreement, or its inability to attract and retain iPhone customers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future financial
condition and operating results. If, contrary to the Company's license agreements or product specifications, an iPhone is "unlocked" from an authorized carrier's network, the Company would not receive
payments related to that iPhone from such carrier, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future financial condition and operating results. The Company may choose to enter into
arrangements with carriers in other countries or regions, and the same risks described above would also apply to those arrangements. 

The Company is subject to risks associated with laws, regulations and industry-imposed standards related to mobile communications devices.  

Laws and regulations related to mobile communications devices in the many jurisdictions in which the Company operates are extensive and subject to change. Such changes, which
could include but are not limited to restrictions on production, manufacture, distribution, and use of the device, locking the device to a carrier's network, or mandating the use of the device on more
than one carrier's network, may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 

Mobile
communication devices, such as iPhone, are subject to certification and regulation by governmental and standardization bodies, as well as by cellular network carriers for use on their networks.
These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result in additional testing requirements, product modifications or delays in product shipment dates, which may have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 

Failure of information technology systems and breaches in data security could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and operating results.  

Information technology system failures and breaches of data security could disrupt the Company's operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding the
manufacture or shipment of products, or resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or Company information. Management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated
network security and internal control measures. There can be no assurance, however, that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition and operating results. 

The Company's stock price may be volatile.  

The Company's stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and as a result of
announcements by the Company and its competitors. The stock market as a whole has also experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology
companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance. Furthermore, the Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations.
If the Company fails to meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline. 

Economic conditions, political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances could materially adversely affect the Company.  

The Company's operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other
business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus may have a strong negative effect on the Company, its suppliers,
logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. The Company's business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and other
hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company's products, make it difficult or 

19




 

impossible
for the Company to make and deliver products to its customers or to receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in the Company's supply chain. Should major
public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental
actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of the Company's manufacturing vendors and component suppliers.
The majority of the Company's research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component
suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses and significant recovery time could
be required to resume operations, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. 

The Company's success depends largely on its ability to attract and retain key personnel.  

Much of the Company's future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including its CEO, its executive team and key employees in
technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel in the technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley, where the
majority of the Company's key employees are located. The Company has relied on equity awards as one means for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Recent accounting regulations
requiring the expensing of stock options have resulted in increased stock-based compensation expense, which has caused the Company to reduce the number of stock-based awards issued to employees. There
can be no assurance that the Company will continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel. 

Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company.  

The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed in Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." The Company is also subject to other legal
proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and have not been fully adjudicated. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its
merit, litigation may be both
time-consuming and disruptive to the Company's operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. Should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters, or
should several of these matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

The Company's business is subject to the risks of international operations.  

The Company derives a large portion of its revenue from its international operations. As a result, its financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected
by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), and changes in the value of
the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. Margins on sales of the Company's products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can be
materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. 

The
Company's primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts of Asia
and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses in foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely affect demand for
the Company's products and the U.S. dollar value of the Company's foreign currency-denominated sales. Conversely, a strengthening in these and other foreign currencies can cause the Company to modify
international pricing and affect the value of the Company's foreign denominated sales and may also increase the cost of product components. 

20




 


The
Company has used derivative instruments, such as foreign exchange forward and option positions, to hedge exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging
activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial effect resulting from unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates. 


Further
information related to the Company's global market risks may be found in Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," under the subheading "Foreign
Currency Risk," and in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," at Note 1, "Summary of Significant Accounting Polices" and Note 2, "Financial Instruments"
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Company's retail initiative has required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and is subject to numerous risks and
uncertainties.  

Through September 29, 2007, the Company had opened 197 retail stores. The Company's retail initiative has required substantial fixed investment in equipment and
leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with terms ranging from 5 to
20 years, the majority of which are for 10 years. Certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and serve as vehicles
for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company's more typical retail
stores. A substantial decline in sales, the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores, or the termination of the retail initiative could result in significant lease termination
costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs that could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


Many
factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the Company's control, pose risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on the Retail segment's future results,
cause its actual results to differ from anticipated results and have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. These risks and uncertainties include, among
other things, macro-economic factors that have a negative effect on general retail activity, inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation, inability to sell third-party
products at adequate margins, failure to manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack of experience in managing retail operations outside the U.S., costs associated with
unanticipated fluctuations in the value of retail inventory, and inability to obtain and renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost. 


The Company's future performance depends on support from third-party software developers. If third-party software applications cease to be developed and maintained for the
Company's hardware products, customers may choose not to buy the Company's products.  

The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase the Company's hardware products are often based on the availability of third-party application software, such as
Microsoft Office. There is no assurance that third-party developers will continue to develop and maintain applications for the Company's hardware products on a timely basis or at all, and
discontinuance or delay of these applications could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. The Company believes the availability of third-party
applications depends in part on the developers' perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company's products versus Windows-based
products. This analysis may be based on factors such as the perceived strength of the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, continued acceptance by customers of Mac
OS X, and the costs of developing such applications. If the Company's minority share of the global personal computer market causes developers to question the Company's prospects, developers could be
less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Company's products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. The Company's
development of its own software applications may also negatively affect 

21




 

the
decisions of third-party developers, such as Microsoft and Adobe, to develop, maintain, and upgrade similar or competitive software for the Company's products. Mac OS X Leopard, which became
available in October 2007, includes a new feature that enables Intel-based Mac systems to run Windows XP and Windows Vista. This feature may deter developers from creating software applications
for Mac OS X if such applications are already available for the Windows platform. 

During
calendar year 2006, the Company transitioned its Mac line of computers from PowerPC to Intel microprocessors. The Company depends on third-party developers to timely develop current and future
Universal applications. A Universal version of Microsoft Office and certain other important applications are currently not available. The lack of Universal applications that run on Intel-based Mac
systems could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 

Investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company's ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated.  


The Company has invested, and may in the future invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including
distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy, inadequate return of capital, and unidentified issues
not discovered in the Company's due diligence. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be successful and will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 

The Company's future operating performance depends on the performance of distributors and other resellers.  


The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, value-added resellers, and cataloguers, many of whom distribute products
from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells many of its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to end-users, certain education customers,
and certain resellers through its online and retail stores. iPhone is distributed through the Company and its exclusive cellular network carriers' distribution channels. 

Many
resellers operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected in the past by weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion of the Company's direct sales as
conflicting with their business interests as distributors and resellers of the Company's products. Such a perception could discourage resellers from investing resources in the distribution and sale of
the Company's products or lead them to limit or cease distribution of those products. The Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if the financial
condition of these resellers weakens, if resellers stopped distributing the Company's products, or if uncertainty regarding demand for the Company's products caused resellers to reduce their ordering
and marketing of the Company's products. The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers' stores with Company
employees and contractors and improving product placement displays. These programs could require a substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. 


The Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements. This risk is heightened during periods when
economic conditions worsen.  

A substantial majority of the Company's outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade
receivables resulting from the sale by the Company of components to vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the Company has entered
into long-term supply agreements to secure supply of NAND flash-memory and has prepaid a total of $1.25 billion under these agreements, of which $208 million had been used as
of September 29, 2007. While the Company has procedures to monitor and 

22




 

limit
exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its
credit risk and avoid losses. 

The Company is subject to risks associated with laws and regulations related to health, safety and environmental protection.  

The Company's products and services, and the production and distribution of those goods and services, are subject to a variety of laws and regulations. These may require the
Company to offer customers the ability to return a product at the end of its useful life and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling with the Company. Such laws and
regulations have recently been passed in several jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including various countries within Europe and Asia, certain Canadian provinces and certain states within
the U.S. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of its operations and the thrust of such laws, there is no assurance such existing laws or future
laws will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


Changes in the Company's tax rates could affect its future results.  

The Company's future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of
deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. The Company is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service
and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no
assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 

The Company is subject to risks associated with the availability and coverage of insurance.  

For certain risks, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. Because the Company retains some portion of its insurable risks, and in
some cases self-insures completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating
results. 

<A
NAME="dg19701_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
 
Item 1B