Item 1A of this Form 10-K. The Company assumes no obligation to
revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as
required by law.

Explanatory Note

In this Form 10-K, Apple Computer, Inc.
(“Apple” or “the Company”) is restating its consolidated balance sheet as of September 24,
2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’
equity, and cash flows for each of the fiscal years ended September 24,
2005 and September 25, 2004, and each of the quarters in fiscal year 2005.

This Form 10-K also reflects the
restatement of “Selected Consolidated Financial Data” in Item 6 for the fiscal
years ended September 2005, 2004, 2003, and 2002, and “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in
Item 7 for the fiscal years ended September 24, 2005 and September 25,
2004.

Previously filed annual reports on Form 10-K
and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q affected by the restatements have
not been amended and should not be relied on.

On June 29, 2006, the Company announced that an
internal review had discovered irregularities related to the issuance of
certain stock option grants made between 1997 and 2001, including a grant to
its Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) Steve Jobs. The Company also announced that
a Special Committee of outside directors (“Special Committee”) had been formed
and had hired independent counsel to conduct a full investigation of the
Company’s past stock option granting practices. On October 4, 2006, the
Company announced the key results of the Special Committee’s investigation,
which are set forth in the Company’s Form 8-K filed on that date.

As a result of the internal review and the independent
investigation, management has concluded, and the Audit and Finance Committee of
the Board of Directors agrees, that incorrect measurement dates were used for
financial accounting purposes for certain stock option grants made in prior
periods. Therefore, the Company has recorded additional non-cash stock-based
compensation expense and related tax effects with regard to past stock option
grants, and the Company is restating previously filed financial statements in
this Form 10-K. These adjustments, after tax, amounted to $4
million, $7 million, and $10 million in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. The adjustment to 2006 was recorded in the fourth quarter of
fiscal year 2006 due to its insignificance.

The independent counsel and its forensic accountants (“Investigative
Team”) reviewed the facts and circumstances surrounding stock option grants
made on 259 dates. The Investigative Team spent over 26,500 person-hours
searching more than one million physical and electronic documents and
interviewing more than 40 current and former directors, officers, employees,
and advisors. Based on a review of the totality of evidence and the applicable
law, the Special Committee found no misconduct by current management. The
Special Committee’s investigation identified a number of grants for which grant
dates were intentionally selected in order to obtain favorable exercise prices.
The terms of these and certain other grants, as discussed below, were finalized
after the originally assigned grant dates. The Special Committee concluded that
the procedures for granting, accounting for, and reporting stock option grants 


 2 





did not include sufficient safeguards to prevent
manipulation. Although the investigation found that CEO Steve Jobs was aware or
recommended the selection of some favorable grant dates, he did not receive or
financially benefit from these grants or appreciate the accounting
implications. The Special Committee also found that the investigation had
raised serious concerns regarding the actions of two former officers in
connection with the accounting, recording and reporting of stock option grants.

Based on the evidence and findings from the Company’s
internal review and the Special Committee’s independent investigation, an
analysis was performed of the measurement dates for the 42,077 stock option
grants made on 259 dates between October 1996 and January 2003 (the “relevant
period”). The Company believes that the analysis was properly limited to the
relevant period. In addition to analyzing all grants made during the relevant
period, the Company sampled certain grants between 1994 and 1997 and found none
that required accounting adjustments. The first grants for which stock-based
compensation expense is required are dated December 29, 1997. The Company
also examined grants made after the relevant period and found none that
required accounting adjustments. Moreover, in the years after 2002, Apple made
significant changes in its stock option granting practices in response to
evolving legal, regulatory and accounting requirements.

Consistent with the accounting literature and recent
guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the grants during
the relevant period were organized into categories based on grant type and
process by which the grant was finalized. The Company analyzed the evidence
related to each category of grants including, but not limited to, electronic
and physical documents, document metadata, and witness interviews. Based on the
relevant facts and circumstances, the Company applied the controlling
accounting standards to determine, for every grant within each category, the
proper measurement date. If the measurement date is not the originally assigned
grant date, accounting adjustments were made as required, resulting in
stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects.

The 42,077 grants were classified as follows: (1) 17
grants to persons elected or appointed to the Board of Directors (“director
grants”); (2) 3,892 grants to employees under the Monday/Tuesday Plan
described below (“Monday/Tuesday grants”); (3) 27,096 grants made in
broad-based awards to large numbers of employees, usually on an annual basis (“focal
grants”); (4) 9,988 other grants ratified at meetings of the Board or
Compensation Committee (“meeting grants”); (5) 1,082 other grants ratified
by unanimous written consent (“UWC”) of the Board or Compensation Committee (“other
UWC grants”); and (6) two grants to the CEO (“CEO grants”). All references
to the number of option shares, option exercise prices, and share prices in
this Explanatory Note have not been adjusted for any subsequent stock splits.

With the exception of director grants, all stock
option grants were subject to ratification by the Board or Compensation
Committee at a meeting or by UWC. Following approval of the grants at a meeting
or by UWC, the Company’s legal staff would prepare a Secretary’s Certificate
certifying the ratification of the grants. Based on the facts and circumstances
described below, the Company has concluded that the recipients and terms of
certain grants were fixed for accounting purposes before ratification pursuant
to parameters previously approved by the Board or Compensation Committee
through the Monday/Tuesday Plan and the focal process. As further discussed
below, within these parameters, management had the authority to determine the
recipients and terms for each grant. Thus, the Company has concluded that the
measurement dates for these grants occurred when management’s process for
allocating these grants was completed and the grants were ready for
ratification, which was considered perfunctory. With regard to all other
grants, the Company has concluded that the grants were finalized and the
measurement dates occurred when the grants were ratified. For many grants,
however, the dates of ratification cannot be established because the dates the
UWCs were executed by the Board or Compensation Committee members or received
by the Company are not available. For such grants, the Company has concluded
that the date of the preparation of the Secretary’s Certificate is the best
alternative for determining the actual date of ratification.


 3 





As discussed below, the Company’s analysis determined
that the originally assigned grant dates for 6,428 grants on 42 dates are not
the proper measurement dates. Accordingly, after accounting for forfeitures,
the Company has recognized stock-based compensation expense of $105 million on
a pre-tax basis over the respective awards’ vesting terms. No adjustments were
required for the remaining 35,649 grants. The adjustments were determined by
category as follows:

Director Grants—Seventeen director grants were made
during the relevant period. Two director grants were made pursuant to a 1997
plan that dated the grants on the enactment of the plan. The remaining fifteen
grants were automatically made under the Director Stock Option Plan for
non-employee directors, which was approved by shareholders in 1998, on the date
of a director’s election or appointment to the Board and on subsequent
anniversaries, beginning on the fourth anniversary. Accordingly, the analysis
determined that the originally assigned grant date for each director grant is
the measurement date, and no accounting adjustments are required.

Monday/Tuesday Grants—Beginning in December 1998,
3,892 new hire grants and grants for promotion and retention purposes (“promotion/retention
grants”) were made during the relevant period under the “Monday/Tuesday Plan.”
Under the Monday/Tuesday Plan, new hire grants made within pre-established
guidelines approved by the Board or Compensation Committee were dated on the
Monday that the recipient started work (or the following Monday, if the
recipient started on another day). The Company’s analysis showed this process
to be reliable with very low error rates. Promotion/retention grants, also
based on pre-established guidelines, were made generally on the first Tuesday
of each month. The Company has concluded that the new hire and
promotion/retention grants made pursuant to the Monday/Tuesday Plan within
pre-established guidelines do not require adjustment, with the exception of six
grants that were erroneously dated before the employees’ start dates. For 120
new hire and promotion/retention grants made outside the guidelines, however,
the Company has concluded that the measurement dates are the dates of
ratification by the Board or Compensation Committee rather than the dates used
for grants within guidelines. Accordingly, based on the methodology described
above, the Company has recognized stock-based compensation expense of $6
million from 126 grants. If other dates in the period between the preparation
of the UWC and the preparation of the Secretary’s Certificate had been used as
measurement dates for grants whose actual ratification dates are unknown, the
total stock-based compensation expense would have ranged from approximately $3
million to $7 million.

Focal Grants—During the relevant period, 27,096 focal
grants were made to employees typically on an annual basis as part of an
extensive process that required several months to complete. Pursuant to limits,
guidelines and practices previously approved by the Board or Compensation
Committee, managers throughout the Company would make recommendations for
grants to employees in their areas of responsibility. After senior management
had determined that the grants were made in accordance with these established
limits, guidelines and practices, management treated the grants as final when
they were submitted to the Board or Compensation Committee for ratification. The
Company has concluded that for 5,595 grants on five dates, the originally
assigned grant dates are not the proper measurement dates. For these grants,
management’s process for finalizing the grants was completed after the originally
assigned grant dates. As a result, the Company has recognized $29 million of
stock-based compensation expense. For two of the five grant dates comprising
3,744 grants, the evidence shows that the grants were finalized and the
measurement date occurred one day after the originally assigned grant dates. The
grants on these two dates represent more than $16 million of the total $29
million of stock-based compensation expense resulting from focal grants.

Other Meeting Grants—During the relevant period,
meetings of the Board or Compensation Committee were held to ratify 9,988
grants that are not Monday/Tuesday, focal or CEO grants. The grant dates and
measurement dates for these grants are the meeting dates when the grants were
ratified, with the exception of 46 grants. Forty-two of these 46 grants are
dated concurrent with a meeting that considered and approved certain grants,
but the evidence indicates that all of the grants may not have been finalized
until a 


 4 





later date. One of the 46 grants was approved and
dated at another meeting, but the recipient, who was becoming employed by the
Company as part of a corporate acquisition, did not start until a later date.
Two other grants were approved before the employees’ start dates. Another grant
was mistakenly cancelled and subsequently reinstated, requiring an accounting
adjustment. Thus, for these 46 grants the Company has concluded that the originally
assigned grant dates are not the proper measurement dates. As a result, the
Company has recognized $2 million of stock-based compensation expense.

Other UWC Grants—During the relevant period, 1,082
grants were approved by UWCs for a variety of purposes, including executive
recruitment, retention, promotion and new hires outside the Monday/Tuesday
process. These grants were not made pursuant to pre-established guidelines
adopted by the Board or Compensation Committee. Therefore, the Company has
concluded that these grants were not finalized for accounting purposes until
ratification by the Board or Compensation Committee. Accordingly, for 660
grants, the Company has concluded that the originally assigned grant dates are
not the proper measurement dates. As a result, the Company has recognized $48
million of stock-based compensation expense. If other dates in the period from
the preparation of the UWC to the preparation of the Secretary’s Certificate
had been used as measurement dates for grants whose actual ratification dates
are unknown, the total stock-based compensation would have ranged from
approximately $35 million to $56 million.

CEO Grants—During the relevant period, the Company
made two grants to CEO Steve Jobs. The first grant, dated January 12,
2000, was for 10 million option shares. The second grant, dated October 19,
2001, was for 7.5 million option shares. Both grants were cancelled in March 2003
prior to being exercised, when Mr. Jobs received 5 million shares of
restricted stock.

With respect to the grant dated January 12, 2000,
the Board on December 2, 1999, authorized a special “CEO Compensation
Committee” to grant Mr. Jobs up to 15 million shares. The evidence
indicates that the CEO Compensation Committee finalized the terms of the grant
on January 12, 2000, although the Committee’s action was memorialized in a
UWC transmitted on January 18, 2000. Because the measurement date is the originally
assigned grant date, the Company has not recognized any stock-based
compensation expense from this grant. If the Company had determined that the
measurement date was the date when the UWC was executed or received, then
additional stock-based compensation would have been recognized.

The grant dated October 19, 2001 was originally
approved at a Board meeting on August 29, 2001, with an exercise price of
$17.83. The terms of the grant, however, were not finalized until December 18,
2001. The grant was dated October 19, 2001, with an exercise price of
$18.30. The approval for the grant was improperly recorded as occurring at a
special Board meeting on October 19, 2001. Such a special Board meeting
did not occur. There was no evidence, however, that any current member of
management was aware of this irregularity. The Company has recognized $20
million in stock-based compensation expense for this grant, reflecting the
difference between the exercise price of $18.30 and the share price on December 18,
2001 of $21.01.


 5 





The
incremental impact from recognizing stock-based compensation expense resulting
from the investigation of past stock option grants is as follows (dollars in
millions):




 
  
  Fiscal Year
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Pre-Tax
  Expense
  (Income)
  
  
   
  
  
  After Tax
  Expense
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  1998
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  (1
  
  
  )
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  1999
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  8
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  6
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2000
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  13
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  9
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2001
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  19
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  13
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2002
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  29
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  23
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  16
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  12
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total 1998 – 2003
  impact
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  84
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  63
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  13
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  10
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  7
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  7
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  1
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  4
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  105
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  84
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 




 

Additionally, the Company has restated the pro forma
expense under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123
in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K
to reflect the impact of these adjustments for the years ended September 24,
2005 and September 25, 2004.


 6










PART I

Item 1. Business

Company Background

Apple Computer, Inc.
(“Apple” or the “Company”) was incorporated under the laws of the State of
California on January 3, 1977. The Company designs, manufactures, and
markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals, and
networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops, and markets a line of
portable digital music players along with related accessories and services,
including the online sale of third-party audio and video products. The Company’s
products and services include the Macintosh® line of desktop and portable
computers, the Mac OS® X operating system, the iPod® line of portable digital
music players, the iTunes Store®, a portfolio of peripherals that support and
enhance the Macintosh and iPod product lines, a portfolio of consumer and
professional software applications, a variety of other service and support
offerings, and the Xserve® and Xserve RAID server and storage products. The
Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail
stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and
value-added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party
Macintosh and iPod compatible products including application software, printers,
storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and
supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company sells to education,
consumer, creative professional, business, and government customers. The
Company’s fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of September. Unless otherwise
stated, all information presented in this Form 10-K is based on the
Company’s fiscal calendar.

Business Strategy

The Company is committed
to bringing the best personal computing and portable digital music experience
to students, educators, creative professionals, businesses, government
agencies, and consumers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals,
services, and Internet offerings. The Company’s business strategy leverages its
unique ability to design and develop its own operating system, hardware,
application software, and services to provide its customers new products and
solutions with superior ease-of-use, seamless integration, and innovative
industrial design. The Company believes continual investment in research and
development is critical to facilitate innovation of new and improved products
and technologies. Besides updates to its existing line of personal computers
and related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions, the
Company continues to capitalize on the convergence of digital consumer
electronics and the personal computer by creating and refining innovations like
the iPod and iTunes Store. The Company’s strategy also includes expanding its
distribution network to effectively reach more of its targeted customers and
provide them with a high-quality sales and after-sales support experience.

Digital Lifestyle

The Company believes that
for both professionals and consumers the personal computer has become the center
of an evolving digital lifestyle by integrating and enhancing the utility of
advanced digital devices such as the Company’s iPods, digital video and still
cameras, televisions, CD and DVD players, cellular phones, personal digital
assistants, and other consumer electronic devices. The attributes of the
personal computer that enable this functionality include a high-quality user
interface, easy access to relatively inexpensive data storage, the ability to
run complex applications, and the ability to connect easily to a wide variety
of other digital devices and to the Internet. The Company is the only
participant in the personal computer industry that controls the design and
development of the entire personal computer—from the hardware and operating
system to sophisticated applications. This, along with its products’ original
industrial designs, intuitive ease-of-use, built-in graphics, multimedia and
networking capabilities, uniquely positions the Company to offer innovative
integrated digital lifestyle solutions.


 7 





Expanded
Distribution

The Company believes a high-quality buying experience
with knowledgeable salespersons that can convey the value of the Company’s
products and services greatly enhances its ability to attract and retain
customers. The Company sells many of its products and resells certain
third-party products in most of its major markets directly to consumers,
education customers, and businesses through its retail and online stores. The
Company has also invested in programs to enhance reseller sales, including the
Apple Sales Consultant Program, which places Apple employees and contractors at
selected third-party reseller locations. The Company believes providing direct
contact with its targeted customers is an efficient way to demonstrate the advantages
of its Macintosh computer and other products over those of its competitors. The
Company has significantly increased the points of distribution for the iPod
product family in order to make its products available at locations where its
customers shop.

By the end of fiscal 2006, the Company had opened a
total of 165 retail stores, including 147 stores in the U.S. and a total of 18
stores in Canada, Japan, and the U.K. The Company opened 5 additional stores in
October and November 2006. The Company has typically located its
stores at high-traffic locations in quality shopping malls and urban shopping
districts.

One of the goals of the retail initiative is to bring new customers to
the Company and expand its installed base through sales to computer users who
currently do not own a Macintosh computer and first time personal computer
buyers. By operating its own stores and building them in desirable high-traffic
locations, the Company is able to better control the customer retail experience
and attract new customers. The stores are designed to simplify and enhance the
presentation and marketing of personal computers and related products. To that
end, retail store configurations have evolved into various sizes in order to
accommodate market demands. The stores employ experienced and knowledgeable
personnel who provide product advice and certain hardware support services. The
stores offer a wide selection of third-party hardware, software, and various
other computing products and supplies selected to complement the Company’s own
products. Additionally, the stores provide a forum in which the Company is able
to offer specialized service and personalized training.

Education

Throughout its history,
the Company has focused on the use of technology in education and has been
committed to delivering tools to help educators teach and students learn. The
Company believes effective integration of technology into classroom instruction
can result in higher levels of student achievement, especially when used to
support collaboration, information access, and the expression and
representation of student thought and ideas. The Company creates solutions that
enable new modes of curriculum delivery, better ways of conducting research,
and opportunities for professional development of faculty, students, and staff.
The Company has designed a range of products and services to meet the needs of
education customers. These products and services include the iMac™ and the
MacBook®, video creation and editing solutions, wireless networking,
professional development solutions, and one-to-one (1:1) learning solutions. A
1:1 learning solution typically consist of a
portable computer for every student and teacher along with the installation of
a wireless network.

Creative
Professionals

Creative professionals constitute one of the Company’s
most important markets for both hardware and software products. This market is
also important to many third-party developers who provide Macintosh-compatible
hardware and software solutions. Creative customers utilize the Company’s
products for a variety of activities including digital video and film
production and editing; digital video and film special effects, compositing and
titling; digital still photography and workflow management; graphic design,
publishing, and print production; music creation and production; audio
production and sound design; and web design, development, and administration.


 8 





The Company designs its
high-end hardware solutions, including servers, desktops, and portable
Macintosh systems, to incorporate the power, expandability, and features
desired by creative professionals. The Company’s operating system, Mac OS X,
incorporates powerful graphics and audio technologies and features developer
tools to optimize system and application performance when running creative
solutions provided by the Company or third-party developers.

Business
Organization

The Company manages its
business primarily on a geographic basis. The Company’s reportable operating
segments are comprised of the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The
Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments do not include activities
related to the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and
South America. The Europe segment includes European countries as well as the
Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment currently operates Apple-owned
retail stores in the U.S., Canada, Japan, and the U.K. Other operating segments
include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and
the Company’s subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. Each reportable geographic
operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar
services. Further information regarding the Company’s operating segments may be
found in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Segment
Operating Performance,” and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K
in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements at Note 11, “Segment
Information and Geographic Data.”

Hardware Products

The Company offers a range
of personal computing products including desktop and notebook computers, server
and storage products, related devices and peripherals, and various third-party
hardware products. The Company’s Macintosh® systems, excluding servers and
storage systems, features the Company’s Mac OS® X Version 10.4 Tiger™ and
iLife® suite of software for digital photography, music, movies, and music and
website creation.

Macintosh®
Computers

In June 2005, the
Company announced its plan to begin using Intel microprocessors in its
computers. During 2006, the Company introduced new Intel-based models of the
MacBook™ Pro, MacBook, Mac® Pro, iMac®, and Mac mini computers. All Intel-based
Macintosh systems feature a fully native version of Mac OS X Version 10.4
Tiger, including the Rosetta™ translation technology, which allows most
PowerPC-based Macintosh applications to run on Intel-based Macintosh computers.
The Company’s transition to Intel microprocessors for Macintosh systems was
completed in August 2006, and its transition for Xserve® was completed in November 2006.
There are potential risks and uncertainties associated with the transition to
Intel microprocessors, which are further discussed in Item 1A of this 10-K
under the heading “Risk Factors.”

MacBook™ Pro

The MacBook Pro family of
notebook computers is designed for professionals and advanced consumer users. Introduced
in January 2006, the MacBook Pro includes either a 15-inch or 17-inch
widescreen display, a built-in iSight video camera, Front Row with the Apple
Remote, and the MagSafe™ power adapter. Current MacBook Pro models include
Intel Core 2 Duo processors at 2.16GHz or 2.33GHz, ATI Mobility Radeon X1600
graphics, 667MHz DDR2 main memory, a Serial ATA hard drive, and a slot-loading
double-layer SuperDrive™. Every MacBook Pro features a 1-inch thin
aluminum enclosure and includes AirPort Extreme wireless networking, Bluetooth
2.0+EDR, Gigabit Ethernet, two or three USB 2.0 ports, FireWire 400 and 800
ports, combination analog and optical digital audio input and output ports, a
full-sized DVI video-out port, an ExpressCard/34 slot, scrolling trackpad, and
backlit keyboard.


 9 





MacBook™

The MacBook is designed
for consumer and education users. Introduced in May 2006, the MacBook
includes a 13-inch widescreen display, a built-in iSight video camera,
Front Row with the Apple Remote, and the MagSafe magnetic power adapter. Current
MacBook models include Intel Core 2 Duo processors at 1.83GHz and 2.0GHz, Intel
integrated GMA 950 graphics, 667MHz DDR2 main memory, a Serial ATA hard drive,
and a slot-loading Combo optical drive or double-layer SuperDrive. Available in
either black or white, every MacBook includes built-in AirPort Extreme wireless
networking, Bluetooth 2.0+EDR, Gigabit Ethernet, two USB 2.0 ports, one
FireWire 400 port, combination analog and optical digital audio input and
output ports, a mini-DVI video output port, and scrolling trackpad.

Mac® Pro

The Mac Pro desktop
computer is targeted at business and professional users and is designed to meet
the performance, expansion, and networking needs of the most demanding
Macintosh user. Introduced in August 2006, the Mac Pro features two Intel
Xeon dual-core processors running up to 3.0GHz, each with 4MB of shared Level 2
cache and independent 1.33GHz front-side buses, 667MHz fully buffered memory,
and a 256-bit wide memory architecture. The Mac Pro also features a
direct attach storage solution for snap-in installation of up to four 750GB
Serial ATA hard drives for a total of 3TB of internal storage and support for
two optical drives to simultaneously read and/or write to CDs and DVDs. Every
Mac Pro includes three full-length PCI Express expansion slots and one
double-wide PCI Express graphics slot to support double-wide graphics cards. The
Mac Pro also includes dual Gigabit Ethernet ports, optical digital input and
output ports, analog audio input and output ports, and multiple FireWire 400,
FireWire 800 and USB 2.0 ports.

iMac®

The iMac desktop computer
is targeted at consumer and education markets. Introduced in January 2006
and updated in September 2006, the Intel-based iMac is currently available
with an integrated 17-inch widescreen LCD display, 512MB or 1GB of 667MHz
DDR2 memory expandable to 2GB or 3GB, a 1.83GHz or 2.0GHz Intel Core 2 Duo
processor, Intel integrated GMA 950 or ATI Radeon X1600 graphics, and a 160GB
Serial ATA hard drive. The iMac is also available with a 20-inch or 24-inch
widescreen LCD display, 1GB of 667MHz memory expandable to 3GB, a 2.16GHz
processor, ATI Radeon X1600 or NVIDIA GeForce 7300 GT graphics, and 250GB
Serial ATA hard drive. All models include a built-in iSight video camera,
mini-DVI video-out port, multiple USB 2.0 and FireWire ports, built-in Gigabit
Ethernet, and AirPort Extreme 802.11g wireless networking. Most models also
include built-in Bluetooth 2.0+EDR, the Apple Remote, and a slot-loading
double-layer SuperDrive.

Mac® mini

In February 2006, the
Company introduced the Intel-based Mac mini that includes Front Row with the
Apple Remote. The new Mac mini offers 512MB of 667MHz memory expandable to 2GB
and either a 1.66GHz or 1.83GHz Intel Core Duo processor. Every Mac mini now
includes built-in Gigabit Ethernet, AirPort Extreme 802.11g wireless
networking, Bluetooth 2.0+EDR, and a total of four USB 2.0 ports. Mac mini
includes a full-size DVI interface and a VGA-out adapter to connect to a
variety of displays, including televisions, and features both analog and
digital audio outputs.

Xserve® and Xserve
RAID Storage System

Xserve is a rack-mount
server product designed for simple setup and remote management of intensive
input/output (I/O) applications such as digital video, high-resolution digital
imagery, and large databases. In November 2006, the Company began shipping
Xserve, a 64-bit server featuring Mac OS® X Server 10.4 on two Intel Xeon
dual-core processors running at 2.0GHz, 2.66GHz, or 3.0GHz, with support for up
to 32GB of memory. Xserve includes PCI Express and independent 1.33GHz front
side buses with 4MB of shared Level 2 memory cache. Two eight-lane PCI Express
expansion slots provide up to 2GB of 


 10 





throughput each to support
fibre channel, networking, and graphics cards. Xserve supports up to 2.25TB of
hot-plug storage. The Company’s Xserve RAID storage system delivers up to 7TB
of storage capacity and also expanded support for heterogeneous environments. The
dual independent RAID controllers with 512MB cache per controller offer
sustained throughput of over 385 Mbps.

Music Products and Services

The Company offers its
iPod® line of portable digital music players and related accessories to
Macintosh and Windows users. The Company also provides an online service to
distribute third-party music, audio books, music videos, short films,
television shows, movies, and iPod games through its iTunes Store. In addition
to the Company’s own iPod accessories, thousands of third-party iPod compatible
products are available, including portable and desktop speaker systems,
headphones, car radio solutions, voice recorders, cables and docks, power
supplies and chargers, and carrying cases and armbands.

iPod®

The iPod is the Company’s
hard-drive based portable digital music player and was updated in September 2006.
The iPod is available in a 30GB model capable of holding up to 7,500 songs,
25,000 photos, or 75 hours of video, and an 80GB model capable of holding up to
20,000 songs, 25,000 photos, or 100 hours of video. The iPod features up to 20
hours of battery life and includes a 2.5-inch color screen that can
display album artwork, photos, and video content including music videos, video
and audio podcasts, short films, television shows, movies, and games. Other key
features of the iPod include a calendar, contact
utility, and data storage capability. The iPod features the Company’s
patent-pending Click Wheel, a touch-sensitive wheel with five push buttons for
one-handed navigation. The iPod also includes the Company’s patent-pending
Auto-Sync technology that automatically synchronizes and updates the iPod’s
digital music and other content whenever it is connected to a Macintosh or
Windows computer via USB. All iPods work with the Company’s iTunes digital
music management software (“iTunes software”) available
for both Macintosh and Windows-based computers.

iPod® nano

In September 2006,
the Company introduced the second-generation version of its flash-memory-based
iPod nano featuring an aluminum body and up to 24 hours of battery life. The
second-generation iPod nano includes the Click Wheel, a smaller and lighter
design, a brighter color screen than its predecessor, and new Search and Quick
Scroll features that make it easier to find content. The iPod nano is available
in 2GB, 4GB and 8GB configurations and in a variety of colors.

iPod® shuffle

In September 2006,
the Company introduced a new version of its flash-memory-based iPod shuffle.
The new iPod shuffle weighs half an ounce and features an all-new aluminum
design and a built-in clip. The new iPod shuffle contains one gigabyte of flash
memory capable of holding up to 240 songs and provides up to 12 hours of
battery life. The iPod shuffle is based on the Company’s shuffle feature that
allows users to listen to their music in random order. iPod shuffle works with
iTunes and its patent-pending AutoFill option that automatically selects songs
to fill the iPod shuffle from a user’s iTunes library.

iTunes® Store

The Company’s iTunes Store, available for both
Macintosh and Windows-based computers, is a service that allows customers to
find, purchase, and download third-party digital music, audio books, music
videos, short films, television shows and movies, and iPod games. The iTunes
Store also features the Podcast Directory that allows customers to search for
and download audio programs to their computers and automatically receive new
episodes over the Internet. Customers can search the contents of the store
catalog to locate works by title, artist, or album, or browse the entire
contents of the store by genre and 


 11 





artist. Originally introduced in the U.S. in April 2003,
the iTunes Store now serves customers in 22 countries.

The iTunes Store is fully
integrated with iTunes software allowing customers to preview, purchase,
download, organize, share, and transfer digital content to an iPod using a
single software application. Further discussion of the iTunes software may be
found below under the heading “Software Products and Computer Technologies.”
The iTunes Store offers customers a broad range of personal rights to the
third-party content they have purchased. Content purchased through the store
may also be used in certain applications such as iPhoto®, iMovie®, and iDVD®.
Additional features of the iTunes Store include gift certificates that can be
sent via e-mail; prepaid music cards; an “allowance” feature that enables users
to automatically deposit funds into an iTunes Store account every month; online
gift options that let customers give specific content to anyone with an email
address; parental controls; and album reviews.

Peripheral Products

The Company sells a
variety of Apple-branded and third-party computer hardware peripheral products
directly to end-users through its retail and online stores, including printers,
storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, and various
other computing products and supplies.

Displays

The Company manufactures a
family of widescreen flat panel displays including the 30-inch Apple
Cinema HD Display™, a widescreen active-matrix LCD with 2560-by-1600
pixel resolution, the 23-inch Apple Cinema HD Display with 1920-by-1200
pixel resolution and the 20-inch Apple Cinema Display® with 1680-by-1050
pixel resolution. These displays feature built-in dual FireWire and dual USB
2.0 ports and use the industry standard DVI interface for a pure digital
connection with the Company’s latest Mac Pro, MacBook Pro, and MacBook systems.
The Cinema Displays feature an aluminum design with a thin bezel, suspended by
an aluminum stand that allows viewing angle adjustment.

Software Products
and Computer Technologies

The Company offers a range
of software products for education, creative, consumer, and business customers,
including Mac OS X, the Company’s proprietary operating system software for the
Macintosh; server software and related solutions; professional application
software; and consumer, education, and business oriented application software.

Operating System
Software

Mac OS X is built on an
open-source UNIX-based foundation. The most recent version, Mac OS X Tiger, is
the fifth major release of Mac OS X. Tiger incorporates innovations including
Spotlight™, a desktop search technology that lets users find items stored on
their Macintosh computers, including documents, emails, contacts, and images;
and Dashboard, a way to instantly access information such as weather forecasts
and stock quotes, using a new class of mini-applications called widgets. Mac OS
X Server version 10.4 is the server version of the Mac OS operating system.

Server Software and
Server Solutions

In April 2006, the Company introduced Apple
Remote Desktop 3, the Company’s third generation desktop management application.
Apple Remote Desktop 3 is a Universal application, meaning that it runs
natively on both Intel and PowerPC-based Macintosh computers (Universal) for
asset management and remote assistance that enables Spotlight searches across
multiple Tiger systems and includes over 30 Automator actions for automating
repetitive system administration tasks, a Dashboard Widget that provides
observation of remote systems, and AutoInstall for installing software
automatically on mobile systems when they return online.


 12 





Xsan®, the Company’s
enterprise-class Storage Area Network (“SAN”) file system, is a 64-bit
cluster file system for Mac OS X that enables organizations to consolidate
storage resources and provide multiple computers with concurrent file-level
read/write access to shared volumes over Fibre Channel. Advanced features such
as metadata controller failover and Fibre Channel multipathing ensure high
availability; file-level locking allows multiple systems to read and write
concurrently to the same volume which is ideal for complex workflows; bandwidth
reservation provides for effective ingestion of bandwidth-intensive data
streams, such as high resolution video; and flexible volume management results
in more efficient use of storage resources. Xsan can be used in heterogeneous
environments that include Windows, UNIX, and Linux server operating system
platforms.

Professional
Application Software

In March 2006, the Company introduced Final Cut
Studio® 5.1, the Company’s High Definition (“HD”)
video production suite. Final Cut Studio features Final Cut Pro® 5, Soundtrack®
Pro, Motion 2, and DVD Studio Pro® 4. All of these applications are Universal.

Final Cut Pro® 5.1, the latest version of the Company’s
video editing software, includes editing tools that work natively with most
formats, from Digital Video (“DV”) and High Definition Video (“HDV”) to fully
uncompressed HD. With a real-time multi-stream effects architecture, multicam
editing tools, and advanced color correction, Final Cut Pro 5.1 enables users
to view and cut from multiple sources in real time, group up to 128 sources
together into multi-clips, then add or subtract cameras at any time.

DVD Studio Pro® 4 is the latest version of the Company’s
professional DVD authoring application. With DVD Studio Pro 4 users can author
Standard Definition (“SD”) or HD DVDs in a graphic interactive environment. DVD
Studio Pro 4 includes Compressor 2, a full-featured video and audio compression
application. Compressor gives users control over encoding, including the
ability to encode several clips in one batch operation to a wide variety of
formats including H.264.

Motion 2 is a real-time motion graphics software
application that enables Final Cut Pro editors to add motion graphics to their
projects. Motion 2 features interactive animation of text and graphics for DVD
motion menus, video or film in real time, and quick output rendering by
built-in GPU acceleration at 8-bit, 16-bit, or 32-bit float
film quality. With Motion 2’s design tool, Replicator, users can automatically
generate and animate multiple copies of a graphic, shape, or movie.

Soundtrack® Pro is an audio editing and sound design
application that gives audio and video professionals a way to edit, mix, and
repair audio. Soundtrack Pro features a waveform editor with flexible Action
Layers that allow users to re-order, bypass, or change any edit, effect, or
process. Find-and-Fix features identify and repair common audio problems such
as background noise, pops, clicks, and hum. An integrated multitrack mixer
allows editors to apply common effects to multiple tracks and group common
tracks. Soundtrack Pro also features over 50 professional plug-ins for
enhancing sounds, and over 5,000 music and sound effect loops.

In February 2006, the
Company introduced Logic® Pro 7.2, a Universal version of the Company’s music
creation and audio production software. Logic Pro 7.2 is used by musicians
around the world and by professionals in music production and film scoring. It
combines digital music composition, notation, and audio production facilities
in one comprehensive product and includes software instruments such as
Sculpture®, a component-modeling based synthesizer; UltraBeat®, a drum
synthesizer with built-in step sequencer; and digital signal processing (DSP)
plug-ins including Guitar Amp Pro, a full-featured guitar amplifier simulator.
Along with workflow enhancements, mastering plug-ins, and support for Apple
Loops, Logic Pro 7 adds distributed audio processing, a technology that allows
professionals to utilize multiple Macintosh systems to expand available DSP
power via an Ethernet network.


 13 





Consumer,
Education, and Business Oriented Application Software

iLife® ‘06

In January 2006, the Company introduced iLife ‘06,
an upgrade to its consumer-oriented digital lifestyle application suite, which
features iWeb™, iPhoto® 6, iMovie® HD 6, iDVD® 6, GarageBand™ 3, and iTunes®. All
of these applications are Universal.

iWeb™ is a new application in the iLife ‘06 suite.
iWeb allows users to create online photo albums, blogs, and podcasts and
customize websites using editing tools.

iPhoto® is the Company’s consumer-oriented digital
photo software application. iPhoto 6 adds new photo management and editing
features, supports up to 250,000 photos, and introduces Photocasting™.
Photocasting allows .Mac users to share and automatically update photo albums
over the Internet with anyone who uses a Macintosh or Windows-based computer.

iMovie® HD is the Company’s consumer-oriented digital
video editing software application. iMovie HD 6 includes new real-time effects
that take advantage of Core Video technology, which uses the computer’s video
card’s graphics processing unit to deliver hardware acceleration to quickly
preview video effects. iMovie HD 6 also provides a solution to make video
podcasts, which can be published with iWeb, and includes audio enhancement
tools and sound effects.

iDVD® is the Company’s consumer-oriented software
application that enables users to turn iMovie files, QuickTime® files, and
digital pictures into DVDs that can be played on most consumer DVD players. iDVD®
6 allows users to take content shot with HDV and widescreen DV cameras and
author custom DVDs with widescreen menus, movies, and high resolution
slideshows. iDVD 6 features 10 new Apple-designed menu themes in both
widescreen (16:9) and standard (4:3) formats.

GarageBand™ is the Company’s consumer-oriented music
creation software application that allows users to play, record and create
music using a simple interface. With GarageBand, recorded performances, digital
audio and looping tracks can be arranged and edited to create songs. GarageBand
3 allows users to record, produce, and publish through iWeb their own podcasts,
including artwork, sound effects, and music jingles.

iLife ‘06 also includes
iTunes, the Company’s digital music jukebox software application that allows users
to purchase a variety of digital content available through the Company’s iTunes
Store. iTunes organizes content using searching, browsing, and playlists, and
also includes features such as iMix playlist sharing and provides integration
with the complete family of iPods. In September 2006, the Company
introduced iTunes 7, the latest version of its iTunes software. iTunes 7
delivers new features such as album and Cover Flow views of music, television
shows, and movies, enabling users to quickly find titles in their library as
well as casually browse through titles they already own.

iWork™ ‘06

In January 2006, the Company introduced iWork ‘06,
a new Universal version of the Company’s suite of productivity software
designed to help users create, present, and publish documents and
presentations. iWork ‘06 includes Pages® 2 and Keynote® 3.

Pages® gives users the tools to create letters,
newsletters, reports, brochures and resumes with advanced typography, multiple
columns, footnotes, tables of content and styles. Pages 2 features mail
merge with Mac OS X Address Book, which allows users to personalize documents
by dragging and dropping individual contacts into documents using templates
with predefined fields. Pages 2 also features new templates for
newsletters, flyers, posters, school reports, scrapbooks, brochures, business
proposals, and invoices. Pages 2 allows users to insert tables that have
basic calculation functionality within any document and users can export their Pages 2
document to other formats.


 14 





Keynote® is the Company’s presentation software that
gives users the ability to create presentations, portfolios, interactive
slideshows, and storyboards. Keynote 3 offers additional ways to create
presentations and interactive slideshows. It features new cinematic transitions
including vertical and horizontal blinds, revolving door, and swoosh. A new
view mode, Light Table, allows users to view an entire presentation and
reorganize slides using drag and drop.

Final Cut® Express HD enables users to capture, edit,
and output DV and HDV over a single FireWire cable, and supports Digital Cinema
Desktop with multiple displays. In May 2006, the Company introduced a
Universal version of Final Cut Express HD 3.5. Features introduced in this
version include Dynamic RT for real-time playback of multi-stream effects,
Soundtrack 1.5 with a suite of audio production tools, and LiveType 2.1 with
animated text and titles.

In March 2006, the Company introduced Logic®
Express 7.2, a Universal version of the Company’s streamlined version of Logic
Pro 7.2 that provides a basic set of professional tools to compose and produce
music for students, educators, and advanced hobbyists. Its high-resolution
audio of up to 24-bit/96kHz, the adaptive self-configuring track mixer,
and 32-bit floating-point math provides professional sound quality. Logic
Express 7 comes with support for projects from GarageBand, offering users a
smooth migration path to high-end audio production.

FileMaker, Inc., a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes
desktop-based database management application software for both Macintosh and
Windows-based computers. The FileMaker® Pro database
software and related products offer relational databases and desktop-to-web
publishing capabilities. In July 2006, the Company introduced FileMaker
Pro 8.5, a Universal version of its database management application. New
features of FileMaker Pro 8.5 include FileMaker Web Viewer, which allows for a
live web browser to be put into a database.

Internet Software
and Services

The Company is focused on
delivering seamless integration with and access to the Internet throughout the
Company’s products and services. The Company’s Internet solutions adhere to
many industry standards to provide an optimized user experience through
interoperability.

Safari™

Safari, the Company’s Mac
OS X compatible web browser, uses the advanced interface technologies
underlying Mac OS X and includes built-in Google search; SnapBack™ to instantly
return to search results; a way to name, organize and present bookmarks; tabbed
browsing; and automatic “pop-up” ad blocking.

QuickTime®

QuickTime, the Company’s multimedia software for
Macintosh or Windows-based computers, features streaming of live and stored
video and audio over the Internet and playback of high-quality audio and video
on computers. QuickTime 7 features H.264 encoding and can automatically
determine a user’s connection speed to ensure they are getting the
highest-quality content stream possible. QuickTime 7 also delivers
multi-channel audio and supports audio formats, including AIFF, WAV, MOV, MP4
(AAC only), CAF, and AAC/ADTS.

The Company offers several
other QuickTime products. QuickTime 7 Pro, a suite of software tools, allows
creation and editing of Internet-ready audio and video files. QuickTime 7 Pro
allows users to create H.264 video, capture audio and video, create
multi-channel audio, and export multiple files while playing back or editing
video.

.Mac™

The Company’s .Mac
offering is a suite of Internet services that for an annual fee provides
Macintosh users with a powerful set of Internet tools. .Mac services include:
HomePage, for personal web sites; iDisk, a 


 15 





virtual hard drive
accessible anywhere with Internet access; .Mac Sync, which keeps Safari
bookmarks, iCal® calendars, Address Book information, Keychain® (passwords),
and Mac OS X Mail preferences up-to-date across multiple Macintosh computers
and available via web browser when users are away from their Mac; .Mac Mail, an
ad-free email service; and Learning Center, featuring tutorials for certain
software applications. The current version of .Mac includes .Mac Groups, a
service that helps members communicate, coordinate schedules, and stay in sync
with private groups of friends or colleagues; an updated version of .Mac Backup
software that allows members to archive the content of their iLife Home folder;
and combined iDisk and email storage of up to 1GB for individuals and 2GB for
families.

Wireless
Connectivity and Networking

AirPort Extreme®

AirPort Extreme is the
Company’s Wi-Fi wireless networking technology. AirPort Extreme is based on the
802.11g standard, which supports speeds up to 54 Mbps, and is fully compatible
with most Wi-Fi devices that use the 802.11b standard. AirPort Extreme Base
Stations can serve up to 50 Macintosh and Windows users simultaneously, provide
wireless bridging to extend the range beyond just one base station, and support
USB printer sharing to allow multiple users to wirelessly share USB printers
connected directly to the base station. AirPort Extreme client technology is
built into most Macintosh models, and is an available option for all.

AirPort® Express™

AirPort Express is the
first 802.11g mobile base station that can be plugged directly into the wall
for wireless Internet connections and USB printing. Airport Express also
features analog and digital audio outputs that can be connected to a stereo and
AirTunes™ music networking software that works with iTunes, giving users a way
to wirelessly stream iTunes music from their Macintosh or Windows-based
computer to any room in the house. AirPort Express features a single piece
design weighing 6.7 ounces.

Other Connectivity
and Networking Solutions

Mac OS X includes capabilities for Bluetooth
technology. Bluetooth is an industry standard for wirelessly connecting
computers and peripherals that supports transmission of data at up to 3 Mbps
within a range of approximately 30 feet. Bluetooth technology for Mac OS X lets
customers wirelessly share files between Macintosh systems, synchronize and
share contact information with Palm-OS based PDAs, and access the Internet
through Bluetooth-enabled cell phones. Bluetooth is built into most Macintosh
models.

Bonjour®, the Company’s zero configuration networking
technology, is based on open Internet Engineering Task Force (“IETF”) Standard
Protocols such as IP, ARP, and DNS and is built into Mac OS X. This
technology uses industry standard networking protocols and zero configuration
technology including Ethernet or 802.11-based wireless networks like the
Company’s AirPort products. The source code for this technology also includes
software to support UNIX, Linux, and Windows-based systems and devices.

The Company developed
FireWire, a high-speed serial I/O technology for connecting digital devices
such as digital camcorders and cameras to desktop and portable computers.
FireWire has high data-transfer speed and “hot plug-and-play” capability and is
currently integrated in all Macintosh systems.

Product Support and
Services

AppleCare® offers a range of support options for the Company’s
customers. These options include assistance that is built into software
products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including
comprehensive product information as well as technical assistance, and the
AppleCare Protection Plan. The AppleCare Protection Plan is a fee-based service
that typically includes three years of phone support and hardware repairs,
dedicated web-based support resources, and user diagnostic tools.


 16 





Markets and
Distribution

The Company’s customers
are primarily in the education, creative, consumer, and business markets. The
Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and
regional retailers and cataloguers. No individual customer accounted for more
than 10% of net sales in 2006, 2005, or 2004. The Company also sells many of
its products and resells certain third-party products in most of its major
markets directly to consumers, education customers, and businesses through its
own sales force and retail and online stores. Ten percent of the Company’s net
sales in 2006 were through its U.S. education channel, including sales to elementary
and secondary schools, higher education institutions, and individual customers.

Competition

The Company is confronted by aggressive competition in
all areas of its business. The markets for consumer electronics, personal
computers and related software and peripheral products are highly competitive.
These markets are characterized by rapid technological advances in both
hardware and software that have substantially increased the capabilities and
use of personal computers and other digital electronic devices and have
resulted in the frequent introduction of new products with competitive price,
feature, and performance characteristics. Over the past several years, price
competition in these markets have been particularly intense. The Company’s
competitors who sell personal computers based on other operating systems have
aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins to gain or maintain
market share. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition can
be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide downward pressures on
gross margins. The principal competitive factors include price, relative
price/performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation,
availability of software, product features, marketing and distribution
capability, service and support, availability of hardware peripherals, and
corporate reputation. Further, as the personal computer industry and its
customers place more reliance on the Internet, an increasing number of Internet
devices that are smaller, simpler, and less expensive than traditional personal
computers may compete for market share with the Company’s existing products.

The Company’s music products and services have faced
significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music
and content products and services, including those offering free peer-to-peer
music and video services. The Company believes it currently retains a
competitive advantage from innovation and by more effectively integrating the
entire solution including the hardware (personal computer and iPod), software
(iTunes), and distribution of content (iTunes Store). However, the Company
expects competition in this space to intensify as competitors attempt to
imitate the Company’s approach to tightly integrate these components within
their individual offerings or, alternatively, collaborate with each other to
offer solutions that are more integrated than those they currently offer. Some
of these current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may
be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at
a loss to compete with the Company’s offerings.

The Company’s future
operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent on the
Company’s ability to continue to develop improvements to the Macintosh platform
and to the Company’s hardware, software and services related to digital content
to maintain perceived functional and design advantages over competing
platforms.

Raw Materials

Although most components essential to the Company’s
business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components
including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits (“ASICs”)
are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources. Some key
components, while currently available to the Company from multiple sources, are
at times subject to industry-wide availability constraints and pricing
pressures. In addition, the Company uses some components uncommon to the rest
of the personal computer and consumer electronics industries, and new products
introduced by 


 17 





the Company often initially utilize custom components
obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there is
a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. If the supply of
a key or single-sourced component to the Company were to be delayed or
curtailed or in the event a key manufacturing vendor delays shipments of
completed products to the Company, the Company’s ability to ship related
products in desired quantities and in a timely manner could be adversely
affected. The Company’s business and financial performance could also be
adversely affected depending on the time required to obtain sufficient
quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient
quantities from an alternative source. Continued availability of these
components may be affected if producers were to decide to concentrate on the
production of common components instead of components customized to meet the
Company’s requirements. The Company attempts to mitigate these potential risks
by working closely with these and other key suppliers on product introduction
plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and internal
and external manufacturing schedules and levels. Consistent with industry
practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of formal
purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand
information. The Company’s purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 150
days.

The Company believes there
are several component suppliers and manufacturing vendors whose loss to the
Company could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business and
financial position. At this time, such vendors include Agere Systems, Inc.,
Ambit Microsystems Corporation, Amperex Technology Limited, ASUSTeK
Corporation, ATI Technologies, Inc., Atheros Communications Inc., AU
Optronics Corporation, Broadcom Corporation, Chi Mei Optoelectronics
Corporation, Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, Hitachi Global Storage
Technologies, Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., Intel Corporation, Inventec
Appliances Corporation, LG. Phillips Co., Ltd., Matsushita, NVIDIA Corp.,
PortalPlayer, Inc., Quanta Computer, Inc., Renesas Semiconductor Co.
Ltd., Samsung Electronics, Sony Corporation, Synaptics, Inc., Texas
Instruments, and Toshiba Corporation.

Research and
Development

Because the personal
computer and consumer electronics industries are characterized by rapid
technological advances, the Company’s ability to compete successfully is
heavily dependent upon its ability to ensure a continuing and timely flow of
competitive products, services, and technologies to the marketplace. The
Company continues to develop new products and technologies and to enhance
existing products in the areas of hardware and peripherals, consumer electronic
products, system software, applications software, networking and communications
software and solutions, and the Internet. The Company may expand the range of
its product offerings and intellectual property through licensing and/or
acquisition of third-party business and technology. The Company’s research and
development expenditures totaled $712 million, $535 million (as
restated(1)),
and $491 million (as restated(1))
in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Patents,
Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses

The Company currently holds rights to patents and
copyrights relating to certain aspects of its computer systems, iPods,
peripherals, software, and services. In addition, the Company has registered,
and/or has applied to register, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and a
number of foreign countries for “Apple,” the Apple logo, “Macintosh,” “iPod,” “iTunes,”
“iTunes Store,” and numerous other trademarks and service marks. Although the
Company believes the ownership of such patents, copyrights, trademarks and
service marks is an important factor in its business and that its success does
depend in part on the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily on the
innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities of its
personnel.



(1)          See the “Explanatory
Note” immediately preceding Part I, Item 1 and Note 2, “Restatement of
Consolidated Financial Statements” in Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of this Form 10-K.


 18 





Many of the Company’s
products are designed to include intellectual property obtained from
third-parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew
licenses relating to various aspects of its products and business methods, the
Company believes, based upon past experience and industry practice, such
licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms; however,
there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained at all. Because of
technological changes in the computer industry, current extensive patent
coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible certain
components of the Company’s products and business methods may unknowingly infringe
existing patents of others. From time to time, the Company has been notified
that it may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights
of third-parties.

Foreign and
Domestic Operations and Geographic Data

The U.S. represents the Company’s largest geographic
marketplace. Approximately 60% of the Company’s net sales in 2006 came from
sales to customers inside the U.S. Final assembly of products sold by the
Company is currently performed in the Company’s manufacturing facility in Cork,
Ireland, and by external vendors in Fremont, California; Fullerton, California;
Taiwan; the Republic of Korea; the People’s Republic of China; and the Czech
Republic. Currently, manufacturing of many of the components used in the
Company’s products is performed by third-party vendors in Taiwan, China, Japan,
Korea, and Singapore. Final assembly of substantially all of the Company’s
portable products, including MacBook Pros, MacBooks, and iPods, is performed by
third-party vendors in China. Margins on sales of the Company’s products in
foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained
from foreign suppliers, can be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange
rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and
antidumping penalties.

Information regarding
financial data by geographic segment is set forth in Part II, Item 8 of
this Form 10-K and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
at Note 11, “Segment Information and Geographic Data.”

Seasonal Business

The Company has
historically experienced increased net sales in its first and fourth fiscal
quarters compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due to seasonal demand
related to the holiday season and the beginning of the school year. This
historical pattern should not be considered a reliable indicator of the
Company’s future net sales or financial performance.

Warranty

The Company offers a basic
limited parts and labor warranty on its hardware products. The basic warranty
period for hardware products is typically one year from the date of purchase by
the end-user. The Company also offers a 90-day basic warranty for its
service parts used to repair the Company’s hardware products. In addition,
consumers may purchase extended service coverage on most of the Company’s
hardware products in all of its major markets.

Backlog

In the Company’s experience, the actual amount of
product backlog at any particular time is not a meaningful indication of its
future business prospects. In particular, backlog often increases in
anticipation of or immediately following new product introductions as dealers
anticipate shortages. Backlog is often reduced once dealers and customers
believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because of the foregoing, backlog should
not be considered a reliable indicator of the Company’s ability to achieve any
particular level of revenue or financial performance.


 19










Environmental Laws

Compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign
laws enacted for the protection of the environment has to date had no material
effect on the Company’s capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position.
In the future, these laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

Production and marketing
of products in certain states and countries may subject the Company to
environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the
requirement to provide customers the ability to return product at the end of
its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or
recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed
in several jurisdictions in which the Company operates including various
European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the U.S. Although
the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects in the future
based on the nature of its operations and the thrust of such laws, there is no
assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity, or results of
operations.

Employees

As of September 30,
2006, the Company had 17,787 full-time equivalent employees and an additional
2,399 temporary equivalent employees and contractors.

Available
Information

The Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed
pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended, are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC). Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are
available on the Company’s website at http://www.apple.com/investor when such
reports are available on the SEC website. The public may read and copy any
materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the
SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site
that contains reports, proxy, and information statements and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The
contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the
Company’s references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive
textual references only.

Item 1A. Risk
Factors

Because of the following
factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company’s operating results and
financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be
a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use
historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.

The matters relating to the investigation by the
Special Committee of the Board of Directors and the restatement of the Company’s
consolidated financial statements may result in additional litigation and governmental
enforcement actions.

On June 29, 2006, the Company announced that an
internal review had discovered irregularities related to the issuance of
certain stock option grants made between 1997 and 2001, including a grant to
its Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Steve Jobs. The Company also announced a
Special Committee of outside directors (“Special Committee”) had been formed
and had hired independent counsel to conduct a full investigation of the
Company’s past stock option granting practices. As described in the
Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, and in Note 2 “Restatement
of Consolidated Financial Statements” in Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in this Form 10-K, as a result of the internal review and
independent investigation, management has concluded, and the Audit and Finance
Committee agrees, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial
accounting purposes for stock option grants made in 


 20 





certain prior periods. As a result, the Company has
recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax
effects, with regard to certain past stock option grants, and the Company has restated
certain previously filed financial statements included in this Form 10-K.

The internal review, the independent investigation,
and related activities have required the Company to incur substantial expenses
for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, have diverted
management’s attention from the Company’s business, and could in the future harm
its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

While the Company believes it has made appropriate
judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for its stock option
grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which the Company has accounted
for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact. Accordingly, there is
a risk the Company may have to further restate its prior financial statements,
amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently
contemplated.

The Company’s past stock option granting practices and
the restatement of prior financial statements have exposed the Company to
greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government
enforcement actions. As described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”,
several derivative complaints and a class action complaint have been filed in
state and federal courts against the Company’s directors and certain of its
executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants.
The Company has provided the results of its internal review and independent
investigation to the SEC and the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Northern District of California, and in that regard the Company has responded
to informal requests for documents and additional information. The Company
intends to continue full cooperation. No assurance can be given regarding the
outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement
actions relating to the Company’s past stock option practices. The resolution
of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and will distract
management from the conduct of the Company’s business. Furthermore, if the
Company is subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or
government enforcement actions, the Company could be required to pay damages or
penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm its business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

In August 2006, the
Company received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter stating that, as a result
of the delayed filing of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended July 1, 2006 (the “Third Quarter Form 10-Q”), the Company
was not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set
forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) and was therefore subject to
delisting from the NASDAQ Stock Market. On October 24, 2006, the
NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel granted the Company’s request for continued
listing, subject to the Company filing the Third Quarter Form 10-Q,
and any required restatements, with the SEC by December 29, 2006. On December 29,
2006, the Company filed the Third Quarter Form 10-Q with the SEC. With
the filing of this Form 10-K, the Company believes that it has
remedied its non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), subject to
NASDAQ’s affirmative completion of its compliance protocols and its
notification of the Company accordingly. However, if the SEC disagrees with the
manner in which the Company has accounted for and reported, or not reported,
the financial impact of past stock option grants, there could be further delays
in filing subsequent SEC reports that might result in delisting of the Company’s
common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market.

Unfavorable results
of legal proceedings could adversely affect the Company’s results of
operations.

The Company is subject to
various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed in Part I, Item 3
of this Form 10-K. The Company is also subject to certain other
legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of
business and which have not been fully adjudicated. Results of legal
proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, litigation may be
disruptive to the Company’s normal 


 21 





business operations. Should
the Company fail to prevail in certain legal matters, the Company’s financial
condition, liquidity, or results of operations could be adversely affected.

Economic conditions and political events could
adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products and the financial health
of its suppliers, distributors, and resellers.

The Company’s operating
performance depends significantly on economic conditions in the U.S. and
abroad. At times in the past, demand for the Company’s products has been
negatively impacted by difficult global economic conditions. Uncertainty about
future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast future demand for the
Company’s products and related operating results. Should global and/or regional
economic conditions deteriorate, demand for the Company’s products could be
adversely affected, as could the financial health of its suppliers,
distributors, and resellers.

War, terrorism, public health issues, and other
circumstances could disrupt supply, delivery, or demand of products, which
could negatively affect the Company’s operations and performance.

War, terrorism, public health issues, and other
business interruptions, whether in the U.S. or abroad, have caused and could
cause damage or disruption to international commerce
and global economy, and thus may have a strong negative impact on the global
economy, the Company, and the Company’s suppliers or customers. The
Company’s major business operations are subject to interruption by earthquake,
other natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other
hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its
control. The majority of the Company’s research and development activities, its
corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical
business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing
vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not
carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses, the Company’s
operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely
affected in the event of a major earthquake or other natural or man-made
disaster.

Although it is impossible
to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, such events
could result in a decrease in demand for the Company’s products, make it
difficult or impossible for the Company to deliver products to its customers or
to receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies
in the Company’s supply chain. In addition, should major public health issues
including pandemics arise, the Company could be negatively affected by more
stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in the
availability of freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of
products between various regions, delays in production ramps of new products,
and disruptions in the operations of the Company’s manufacturing vendors and
component suppliers. The Company’s operating results and financial condition
have been, and in the future may be, adversely affected by such events.

The market for personal computers and related
peripherals and services, as well as digital music devices and related
services, is highly competitive. If the Company is unable to effectively
compete in these markets, its results of operations could be adversely affected.

The personal computer industry is highly competitive
and is characterized by aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure on
gross margins, frequent introduction of new products, short product life
cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product
price/performance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological and product
advancements by competitors, price sensitivity on the part of consumers, and a
large number of competitors. Price competition in the market for personal computers
and related peripherals has been particularly intense as competitors who sell
Windows and Linux based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and
lowered their product margins for personal computing products. The Company’s
results of operations and financial condition have been, and in the future may
continue to be, adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing
pressures and downward pressures on gross margins.


 22 





The personal computer industry has also been
characterized by rapid technological advances in software functionality,
hardware performance, and features based on existing or emerging industry
standards. Further, as the personal computer industry and its customers place
more reliance on the Internet, an increasing number of Internet devices that
are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for
market share with the Company’s existing products. Several competitors of the
Company have targeted certain of the Company’s key market segments, including
consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and
design and publishing. Several of the Company’s competitors have introduced
digital music products and/or online stores offering digital music distribution
that mimic many of the unique design, technical features, and solutions of the
Company’s products. The Company has a significant number of competitors, many
of whom have broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than
those of the Company. Additionally, there has been a trend towards
consolidation in the personal computer industry that has resulted in larger and
potentially stronger competitors in the Company’s markets.

The Company is currently the only maker of hardware
using the Mac OS. The Mac OS has a minority market share in the personal
computer market, which is dominated by makers of computers utilizing competing
operating systems, including Windows and Linux. The Company’s future operating
results and financial condition are substantially dependent on its ability to
continue to develop improvements to the Macintosh platform to maintain
perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms. Additionally,
if unauthorized copies of the Mac OS are used on other companies’ hardware
products and result in decreased demand for the Company’s hardware products,
the Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected.

The Company is currently focused on market
opportunities related to digital music distribution and related consumer
electronic devices, including iPods. The Company faces significant competition
from other companies promoting their own digital music products including MP3
players, music enabled cell phones, free peer-to-peer music and video services,
and free streaming of digital content via the Internet. These competitors
include both new entrants with different market approaches, such as
subscription services models, and also larger companies that may have
significant technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources, as well as
established hardware, software, and digital content supplier relationships.
Failure to effectively compete could negatively affect the Company’s operating
results and financial position. The Company expects competition in this space
to intensify as competitors attempt to imitate the Company’s approach to
tightly integrating these components within their individual offerings or work
more collaboratively with each other to offer solutions that are more
integrated than those they offer currently. Some of these current and potential
competitors have substantial resources and may be able to provide such products
and services at little or no profit or even at a loss to compete with the
Company’s offerings. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to
continue to provide products and services that effectively compete in these
markets. The Company may also have to respond to price competition by lowering
prices and/or increasing features which could adversely affect the Company’s
music product gross margins as well as overall Company gross margins.

The Company also faces
significant competition in the U.S. education market. U.S. elementary and
secondary schools, as well as college and university customers, remain a core
market for the Company. In an effort to gain market share and remain
competitive, the Company will continue to pursue one-to-one (1:1) learning
solutions in education. 1:1 learning
solutions typically consist of a
portable computer for every student and teacher along with the installation of
a wireless network. These 1:1
learning solutions and other strategic sales are generally priced more
aggressively and could result in significantly less profitability or financial
losses, particularly for larger deals. Although the Company believes it has
taken certain steps to strengthen its position in the education market, there
can be no assurance that the Company will be able to increase or maintain its
share of the education market or execute profitably on large strategic 


 23 





arrangements. Failure to
do so may have an adverse impact on the Company’s operating results and
financial condition.

Future operating results are dependent upon the
Company’s ability to obtain a sufficient supply of components, including
microprocessors, some of which are in short supply or available only from
limited sources.

Although most components
essential to the Company’s business are generally available from multiple
sources, certain key components including microprocessors and ASICs are
currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources. Some key
components (including without limitation DRAM, NAND flash-memory, and TFT-LCD
flat-panel displays), while currently available to the Company from multiple
sources, are at times subject to industry-wide availability and pricing pressures.
In addition, new products introduced by the Company often initially utilize
custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated
whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers.
In situations where a component or product utilizes new technologies, initial
capacity constraints may exist until such time as the suppliers’ yields have
matured. The Company and other producers in the personal computer and consumer
electronics industries also compete for various components with other
industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The
Company uses some components that are not common to the rest of the personal
computer or consumer electronics industries. Continued availability of these
components may be affected if producers decided to concentrate on the
production of components other than those customized to meet the Company’s
requirements. If the supply of a key component were delayed or constrained on a
new or existing product, the Company’s results of operations and financial
condition could be adversely affected.

The Company must successfully manage frequent product
introductions and transitions to remain competitive and effectively stimulate
customer demand.

Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of
the personal computer and consumer electronics industries, which are
characterized by dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological
advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies,
enhance existing products to remain competitive, and effectively stimulate
customer demand for new products and upgraded versions of the Company’s
existing products. The success of new product introductions is dependent on a
number of factors, including market acceptance; the Company’s ability to manage
the risks associated with product transitions, including the transition to
Intel-based Macintosh computers, and production ramp issues; the availability
of application software for new products; the effective management of purchase
commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; the
availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet
anticipated demand; and the risk that new products may have quality or other
defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot
determine in advance the ultimate effect new products will have on its sales or
results of operations.

In June 2005, the
Company announced its plan to begin using Intel microprocessors in its
computers. During 2006, the Company introduced new Intel-based models of the
MacBook Pro, MacBook, Mac Pro, iMac, and Mac mini computers. The Company’s
transition to Intel microprocessors for Macintosh systems was completed in August 2006,
and its transition for Xserve was completed in November 2006. This
transition has been and will continue to be subject to numerous risks and
uncertainties including the timely innovation and delivery of related hardware
and software products to support Intel microprocessors, market acceptance of
Intel-based Macintosh computers, and the development and availability on
acceptable terms of components and services essential to enable the Company to
timely deliver Intel-based Macintosh computers. In addition, the Company is
dependent on third-party software developers such as Microsoft and Adobe to
timely develop current and future applications that run on Intel-based
Macintosh computers. Universal versions of Microsoft Office and Adobe’s
Creative Suite applications are not currently available. Additionally,
there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its 


 24 





historical gross margin
percentages on its products, including Intel-based Macintosh computers, which
may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations.

The Company’s products from time to time experience
quality problems that can result in decreased net sales and operating profits.

The Company sells highly
complex hardware and software products that can contain defects in design and
manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as
those sold by the Company, often contain “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere
with the operation of the software. Defects may also occur in components and
products the Company purchases from third-parties. There can be no assurance
that the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware and
software it sells. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, loss of
reputation, and significant warranty and other expense to remedy.

Because orders for components, and in some cases
commitments to purchase components, must be placed in advance of customer
orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk.

The Company records a write-down for inventories of
components and products that have become obsolete or are in excess of
anticipated demand or net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for
cancellation fees for orders of products and components that have been
cancelled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions
are currently adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product
obsolescence in the computer and consumer electronics industries and the
transition to Intel-based Macintosh computers, no assurance can be given that
the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. In
addition, such charges have had, and may have, a material effect on the Company’s
financial position and results of operations.

The Company must order
components for its products and build inventory in advance of product
shipments. Because the Company’s markets are volatile and subject to rapid
technology and price changes, and because of the transition to Intel-based
Macintosh computers, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and
produce or order from third parties excess or insufficient inventories of
particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally
acquired through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open
orders based on projected demand information. Such purchase commitments
typically cover the Company’s forecasted component and manufacturing
requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. The Company’s operating
results and financial condition have been in the past and may in the future be
materially adversely affected by the Company’s ability to manage its inventory
levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns.

The Company is dependent on manufacturing and
logistics services provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside
of the U.S.

Most of the Company’s products are manufactured in
whole or in part by third-party manufacturers. In addition, the Company has
outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing
arrangements may lower the cost of operations, they also reduce the Company’s
direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect
such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of the products
manufactured or services rendered, or the flexibility of the Company to respond
to changing market conditions. In addition, the Company is reliant on
third-party manufacturers to adhere to the Company’s supplier code of conduct. Moreover,
although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for
warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain at least initially
responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product
defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether
pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could
adversely affect the Company’s future operating results and financial
condition.


 25 





Final assembly of products
sold by the Company is currently performed in the Company’s manufacturing
facility in Cork, Ireland, and by external vendors in Fremont, California;
Fullerton, California; Taiwan; the Republic of Korea; the People’s Republic of
China; and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacturing of many of the
components used in the Company’s products is performed by third-party vendors
in Taiwan, China, Japan, Korea, and Singapore. Final assembly of substantially
all of the Company’s portable products, including MacBook Pros, MacBooks, and
iPods, is performed by third-party vendors in China. If for any reason
manufacturing or logistics in any of these locations is disrupted by regional
economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues,
or due to information technology system failures or military actions, the Company’s
results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

The Company’s future operating performance is
dependent on the performance of distributors and other resellers of the Company’s
products.

The Company distributes its products through
wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, and cataloguers, many
of whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. In addition, the
Company sells many of its products and resells certain third-party products in
most of its major markets directly to end-users, certain education customers,
and certain resellers through its online stores around the world and its retail
stores. Many of the Company’s resellers operate on narrow product margins and
have been negatively impacted in the past by weak economic conditions.
Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit
insurance are outstanding with the Company’s distribution and retail channel
partners. The Company’s business and financial results could be adversely
affected if the financial condition of these resellers weakens, if resellers
within consumer channels were to cease distribution of the Company’s products,
or if uncertainty regarding demand for the Company’s products caused resellers
to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Company’s products. The Company
has invested and will continue to invest in various programs to enhance
reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers’ stores with Company
employees and contractors. These programs could require a substantial
investment from the Company, while providing no assurance of return or
incremental revenue to offset this investment.

Over the past several
years, an increasing proportion of the Company’s net sales have been made by
the Company directly to end-users through its online stores around the world
and through its retail stores in the U.S., Canada, Japan, and the U.K. Some of
the Company’s resellers have perceived this expansion of the Company’s direct
sales as conflicting with their own businesses and economic interests as
distributors and resellers of the Company’s products. Perception of such a
conflict could discourage the Company’s resellers from investing additional
resources in the distribution and sale of the Company’s products or lead them
to limit or cease distribution of the Company’s products. The Company’s
business and financial results could be adversely affected if expansion of its
direct sales to end-users causes some or all of its resellers to cease or limit
distribution of the Company’s products.

The Company relies
on third-party digital content, which may not be available to the Company on
commercially reasonable terms or at all.

The Company contracts with third parties to offer
their digital content to customers through the Company’s iTunes Store. The
Company pays substantial fees to obtain the rights to offer to its customers
this third-party digital content. The Company’s licensing arrangements with
these third-party content providers are short-term in nature and do not guarantee
the future renewal of these arrangements at commercially reasonable terms, if
at all. Certain parties in the music industry have consolidated and formed
alliances, which could limit the availability and increase the fees required to
offer digital content to customers through the iTunes Store. Some third-party
content providers currently or may in the future offer music products and
services that compete with the Company’s music products and services, and could
take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license
their digital content in the future. Further, other distributors of third-party
content or third-party content owners may seek to limit 


 26 





the Company’s access to or increase the total cost of
such content. If the Company is unable to continue to offer a wide variety of
digital content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue
to expand its geographic reach outside the U.S., then sales and gross margins
of the Company’s iTunes Store, as well as related hardware and peripherals,
including iPods, may be adversely affected.

Third-party content
providers and artists require that the Company provide certain digital rights
management (“DRM”) solutions and other security mechanisms. If the requirements
from content providers or artists change, then the Company may be required to
further develop or license technology to address such new rights and
requirements. In addition, certain countries have passed legislation or may
propose legislation that would force the Company to license its DRM solutions
so that content would be interoperable with competitor devices, which could
lessen the protection of content subjecting it to piracy and could affect
arrangements with the Company’s content suppliers. There is no assurance the
Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost
and in a timely manner, if at all, which could have a materially adverse effect
on the Company’s operating results and financial position.

The Company’s future performance is dependent upon
support from third-party software developers. If third-party software
applications cease to be developed or available for the Company’s hardware
products, then customers may choose not to buy the Company’s products.

The Company believes decisions by customers to
purchase the Company’s personal computers, as opposed to Windows-based
systems, are often based on the availability of third-party software
applications such as Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the
availability of third-party application software for the Company’s
hardware products depends in part on third-party developers’ perception
and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining, and upgrading
such software for the Company’s products versus software for the larger Windows
market or growing Linux market. This analysis may be based on factors such as
the perceived strength of the Company and its products, the anticipated
potential revenue that may be generated, continued acceptance by customers of Mac
OS X, and the costs of developing such software products. To the extent the
minority market share held by the Company in the personal computer market has
caused software developers to question the Company’s prospects in the personal
computer market, developers could be less inclined to develop new application
software or upgrade existing software for the Company’s products and more
inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for the
larger Windows market or growing Linux market. The Company’s recent
announcement that it plans to add a feature to the next version of Mac OS X
that will enable Intel-based Macintosh systems to run Windows XP may deter
developers from creating software applications for Mac OS X if such
applications are available for the Windows platform. Moreover, there can be no
assurance software developers will continue to develop software for Mac OS X on
a timely basis or at all.

In June 2005, the Company announced its plan to
begin using Intel microprocessors in its computers. During 2006, the Company
introduced new Intel-based models of the MacBook Pro, MacBook, Mac Pro, iMac,
and Mac mini computers. The Company’s transition to Intel microprocessors for
Macintosh systems was completed in August 2006, and its transition for
Xserve was completed in November 2006. The Company depends on third-party
software developers to timely develop current and future applications that run
on Intel microprocessors. Universal versions of Microsoft Office and Adobe’s
Creative Suite applications are not currently available. The lack of
applications that run on Intel-based Macintosh systems, including Microsoft
Office and Adobe Creative Suite, could have a materially adverse effect on the
Company’s operating results and financial position.

In addition, past and
future development by the Company of its own software applications and
solutions may negatively impact the decision of software developers, such as
Microsoft and Adobe, to develop, maintain, and upgrade similar or competitive software
for the Company’s products. The Company currently markets and sells a variety
of software applications for use by professionals, consumers, and education
customers that could influence the decisions of third-party software developers
to develop or 


 27 





upgrade
Macintosh-compatible software products. Software applications currently
marketed by the Company include software for professional film and video
editing, professional compositing and visual effects for large format film and
video productions, professional music production and music post production,
professional and consumer DVD encoding and authoring, professional digital
photo editing and workflow management, consumer digital video and digital photo
editing and management, digital music management, desktop-based database
management, word processing, and high-quality presentations. Discontinuance of
third-party software products for the Macintosh platform could have an adverse
effect on the Company’s net sales and results of operations.

The Company’s business relies on access to patents and
intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Company’s future
results could be adversely affected if it is alleged or found to have infringed
on the intellectual property rights of others.

Many of the Company’s products are designed to include
intellectual property obtained from third parties. While it may be necessary in
the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its
products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past
experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on
commercially reasonable terms. However, there can be no assurance that the
necessary licenses would be available or available on acceptable terms.

Because of technological
changes in the computer and consumer electronics industries, current extensive
patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible
certain components of the Company’s products and business methods may
unknowingly infringe existing patents of others. The Company has from time to
time been notified that it may be infringing certain patents or other
intellectual property rights of others. Responding to such claims, regardless
of their merit, can be time-consuming, result in significant expenses, and
cause the diversion of management and technical personnel. Several pending
claims are in various stages of evaluation. The Company may consider the
desirability of entering into licensing agreements in certain of these cases.
However, no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on
acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. In the event there is a
temporary or permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from
marketing or selling certain of its products or a successful claim of
infringement against the Company requiring it to pay royalties to a
third-party, the Company’s future operating results and financial condition
could be adversely affected. Information regarding certain claims and
litigation involving the Company related to alleged patent infringement and
other matters is set forth in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K.
In the opinion of management, the Company does not have a potential liability
for damages or royalties from any current legal proceedings or claims related
to the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others
that would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on
its results of operations or financial condition. However, the results of such
legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail
to prevail in any of the matters related to infringement of patent or other
intellectual property rights of others described in Part I, Item 3 of this
Form 10-K or should several of these matters be resolved against the
Company in the same reporting period, the operating results of a particular
reporting period could be materially adversely affected.

The Company’s retail initiative has required and will
continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and is
subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.

Through September 30, 2006, the Company had
opened 165 retail stores. The Company’s retail initiative has required
substantial investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information
systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into
substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with lease terms
ranging from 5 to 20 years, the majority of which are for 10 years. The Company
could incur substantial costs should it choose to terminate these commitments
or close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company’s
results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, a relatively high
proportion of the Retail segment’s costs are fixed because of personnel costs, 


 28 





depreciation of store construction costs, and lease
expense. As a result, significant losses would result should the Retail segment
experience a significant decline in sales for any reason.

Certain of the Company’s stores
have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues that function
as vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand
awareness. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these
stores require substantially more investment in equipment and leasehold improvements than the Company’s more typical
retail stores. The Company has opened eight such stores through September 2006.
Because of their location and size, these high-profile stores also require the
Company to enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared
to those required for its more typical stores. Current leases on such locations
have terms ranging from 10 to 14 years with total remaining commitments per location
ranging from $4 million to $33 million. Closure or poor performance of one of
these high-profile stores could have a significant negative impact on the
Company’s results of operations and financial condition.

Many of the general risks
and uncertainties the Company faces could also have an adverse impact on its
Retail segment. Also, many factors unique to retail operations present risks and uncertainties, some of which
are beyond the Company’s control, that could adversely affect the Retail
segment’s future results, cause its actual results to differ from those
currently expected, and/or have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated
results of operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique to retail
operations that could have an adverse impact on the Retail segment include,
among other things, macro-economic factors that have a negative impact on
general retail activity; inability to manage costs associated with store
construction and operation; inability to sell third-party hardware and software
products at adequate margins; failure to manage relationships with existing
retail channel partners; lack of experience in managing retail operations
outside the U.S.; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations in the value
of Apple-branded and third-party retail inventory; and inability to obtain and
renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost.

Investment in new business strategies and initiatives
could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business and may present risks not originally
contemplated.

The Company has and may in
the future invest in new business strategies or engage in acquisitions that
complement the Company’s strategic direction and product roadmap. Such
endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including
distraction of management’s attention away from current business operations;
insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities assumed and expenses
associated with the strategy; and unidentified issues not discovered in the
Company’s due diligence process. Because these new ventures are inherently
risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be
successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company’s business,
operating results or financial condition.

Declines in the sales of the Company’s professional
products, software, accessories, or service and support contracts, or increases
in sales of consumer products, including iPods, may negatively impact the
Company’s gross margin and operating margin percentages.

The Company’s professional products, including MacBook
Pro and Mac Pro systems, software, accessories, and service and support
contracts, generally have higher gross margins than the Company’s consumer
products, including the iMac, Mac mini, MacBook, iPod, and content from the
iTunes Store. A shift in sales mix away from higher margin professional
products towards lower margin consumer products could adversely affect the
Company’s future gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company’s
traditional professional customers may choose to buy consumer products,
specifically the iMac and MacBook, instead of professional products.
Professional users may choose to buy the iMac due to its relative price
performance and unique design featuring a flat panel screen. Professional users
may also choose to purchase MacBooks instead of the Company’s
professional-oriented portable products due to their price performance and
screen size. Additionally, significant future growth in iPod sales without 


 29 





corresponding growth in higher margin product sales
could also reduce gross margin and operating margin percentages.

The Company expects
its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate for a variety of
reasons.

The Company’s profit
margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company’s
direct sales, primarily through its retail and online stores, generally have
higher associated profitability than its indirect sales. As a result, the
Company’s gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall
profitability may be adversely impacted as a result of a shift in product,
geographic or channel mix, or new product announcements, including the
transition to Intel-based Macintosh computers. In addition, the Company
generally sells more product during the third month of each quarter than it
does during either of the first two months, a pattern typical in the personal
computer and consumer electronics industries. This sales pattern can produce
pressure on the Company’s internal infrastructure during the third month of a
quarter and may adversely impact the Company’s ability to predict its financial
results accurately. Furthermore, the Company has typically experienced greater
net sales in the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared to other quarters in
the fiscal year due to seasonal demand related to the holiday season and the
beginning of the school year. Developments late in a quarter, such as
lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’s products, an internal systems
failure, or failure of one of the Company’s key logistics, components
suppliers, or manufacturing partners, could have significant adverse impacts on
the Company and its results of operations and financial condition.

The Company has higher research and development and
selling, general and administrative costs, as a percentage of revenue, than
many of its competitors.

The Company’s ability to
compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins and revenue growth
is heavily dependent upon its ability to ensure a continuing and timely flow of
innovative and competitive products and technologies to the marketplace. As a
result, the Company generally incurs higher research and development costs as a
percentage of revenue than its competitors who sell personal computers based on
other operating systems. Many of these competitors seek to compete aggressively
on price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, as a result of the
expansion of the Company’s Retail segment and costs associated with marketing
the Company’s brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs
higher selling costs as a percentage of revenue than many of its competitors.
If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new
products with attractive gross margins, its results of operations may be
materially adversely affected by its operating cost structure.

The Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts
receivable and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements. This risk is
heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen.

The Company distributes
its products through third-party computer resellers and retailers and directly
to certain educational institutions and commercial customers. A substantial
majority of the Company’s outstanding trade receivables are not covered by
collateral or credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade
receivables from certain of its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale
by the Company of raw material components to these manufacturing vendors who manufacture
sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the
Company has entered into long-term supply agreements to secure supply of NAND
flash-memory and has prepaid a total of $1.25 billion under these agreements.
While the Company has procedures in place to monitor and limit exposure to
credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables as well as long-term
prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will be effective in
limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, if the global
economy or regional economies deteriorate, the Company would be more likely to
incur a material loss or losses as a result of the weakening financial
condition of one or more of its customers or manufacturing vendors.


 30 





The Company’s
success depends largely on its ability to attract and retain key personnel.

Much of the future success
of the Company depends on the continued service and availability of skilled
personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, members of its executive
team, and those in technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced
personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and
competition for their talents is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley,
where the majority of the Company’s key employees are located. The Company has
relied on its ability to grant stock options as one mechanism for recruiting
and retaining this highly skilled talent. Recent accounting regulations
requiring the expensing of stock options have resulted in increased stock-based
compensation expense, which may cause the Company to reduce the amount of
stock-based awards issued to employees. There can be no assurance that the
Company will continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel.

The Company is subject
to risks associated with the availability and coverage of insurance.

For certain risks, the
Company does not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or
availability. Because the Company retains some portion of its insurable risks,
and in some cases self insures completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in
excess of insured limits may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
results of operations and financial position.

Failure of information technology systems and breaches
in the security of data upon which the Company relies could adversely affect the
Company’s future operating results.

Information technology
system failures and breaches of data security could disrupt the Company’s
ability to function in the normal course of business by potentially causing
delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding the manufacture or shipment
of products, or resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or
Company information. Management has taken steps to address these concerns for its
own systems by implementing sophisticated network security and internal control
measures. However, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data
security breach of the Company or a third-party vendor will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.

The Company’s
business is subject to the risks of international operations.

A large portion of the Company’s revenue is derived
from its international operations. As a result, the Company’s operating results
and financial condition could be significantly affected by risks associated
with international activities, including economic and labor conditions,
political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries),
and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currency in which
the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. The Company’s
primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to
non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and
certain parts of Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred
throughout the world. Weaknesses in foreign currencies, particularly the
Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the
Company’s products and the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency
denominated sales. Conversely, a strengthening in these and other foreign
currencies can cause the Company to modify international pricing and affect the
value of the Company’s foreign denominated sales, and in some cases, may also
increase the cost to the Company of some product components.

Margins on sales of the Company’s products in foreign
countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from
foreign suppliers, can be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and
antidumping penalties.

Derivative instruments, such as foreign exchange
forward and option positions have been utilized by the Company to hedge
exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such
hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial
impact resulting from unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates.


 31 





Further information related
to the Company’s global market risks may be found in Part II, Item 7A of
this Form 10-K under the subheading “Foreign Currency Risk” and may
be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K at Notes 1 and 3
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company is
subject to risks associated with environmental regulations.

Production and marketing
of products in certain states and countries may subject the Company to
environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the
requirement to provide customers the ability to return product at the end of
its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or
recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed
in several jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including various
European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the U.S.
Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects in the
future based on the nature of its operations and the thrust of such laws, there
is no assurance such existing laws or future laws will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity, or results of
operations.

Changes in
accounting rules could affect the Company’s future operating results.

Financial statements are
prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies,
including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC, who
create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. A change from current
accounting standards could have a significant effect on the Company’s results
of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued new guidance that
addresses the accounting for share-based payments, Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123 (revised 2004) (“SFAS No. 123R”),
Share-Based Payment, which the Company
adopted in 2006. In 2006, stock-based compensation expense reduced diluted
earnings per common share by approximately $0.14. Although the adoption of SFAS
No. 123R is expected to continue to have a significant impact on the
Company’s results of operations, future changes to various assumptions used to
determine the fair-value of awards issued or the amount and type of equity
awards granted create uncertainty as to the amount of future stock-based
compensation expense.

Changes in the
Company’s tax rates could affect its future results.

The Company’s future
effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in
the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in
the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by
changes in tax laws or their interpretation. In addition, the Company is
subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal
Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the
likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine
the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance the
outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on
the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.

The Company’s stock
price may be volatile.

The Company’s stock has at
times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations
between its actual and anticipated financial results and as a result of
announcements by the Company and its competitors. The stock market has
experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market
price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to the
operating performance of these companies. Furthermore, the Company believes its
stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. If the
Company fails to meet these expectations its stock price may significantly
decline. In addition, increases in the Company’s stock price may result in
greater dilution of earnings per share.


 32










Item 1B