ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS  

         The following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our business and prospects. These risk factors are
in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this report. 

    
Intense competition as well as industry consolidations may erode our profit margins.  

         The distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare solutions is highly competitive. We compete with two national wholesale
distributors of pharmaceuticals, McKesson and Cardinal; regional and local distributors of pharmaceuticals; national generic distributors; chain drugstores that warehouse their own pharmaceuticals;
manufacturers that distribute their products directly to customers; specialty distributors; and packaging and healthcare technology companies (see "Competition" on page 4). Competition
continues to increase in specialty distribution and services, where gross margins historically have been higher than in ABDC. Reflecting that increased competition, our two national competitors have
continued to expand their footprint in the area of specialty distribution and services. If we were forced by competition to reduce our prices or offer more favorable payment or other terms, our
results of operations or liquidity could be adversely affected. In addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation. If this trend continues among our
customers and suppliers, it could give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to greater pressure to reduce prices for our products and services. 

    
Our results of operations continue to be subject to the risks and uncertainties of inflation in branded and generic pharmaceutical prices and deflation in generic
pharmaceutical prices.  

         Certain distribution service agreements that we have entered into with branded and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers continue to have
an inflation-based compensation component to them. Arrangements with a small number of branded manufacturers continue to be solely inflation-based. As a result, our gross profit from brand-name and
generic manufacturers continues to be subject to fluctuation based upon the timing and extent of manufacturer price increases. If the frequency or rate of branded and generic pharmaceutical price
increases slows, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, generic pharmaceuticals are also subject to price deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical
price deflation accelerates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 

    
Declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

         Our operations and performance depend on economic conditions in the United States and other countries where we do business.
Deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products purchased by consumers and, therefore, reduce
purchases by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. Interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market
disruptions may also negatively affect our customers' ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms. Reduced purchases by our customers or changes in payment terms could
adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our cash flow from operations. Bankruptcies or similar events affecting our customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels
higher than historically experienced. Declining economic conditions may also increase our costs. If the economic conditions in the United States or in the regions outside the United States where we do
business do not improve or deteriorate, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. 

    
Our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows may suffer upon the loss of a significant customer.  

         Express Scripts accounted for 24% of our revenue in fiscal 2013. Our top ten customers, including governmental agencies,
represented approximately 48% of fiscal 2013 revenue. In fiscal 2014, Walgreens will be our largest customer. We also have contracts with group purchasing organizations ("GPOs"), each of
which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of its members, who are hospitals, pharmacies or other healthcare providers. Approximately 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2013 was derived from our
three largest GPO relationships. We may lose a significant customer or GPO relationship if any existing contract with such customer or GPO expires without being extended, renewed,
renegotiated or replaced or is terminated by the customer or GPO prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is permitted by the contract. A number of our contracts with
significant customers or GPOs are typically subject to expiration each year and we may lose any of these customers or GPO relationships if we are unable to extend, renew, renegotiate or
replace the contracts. The loss of any significant customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. 

    
Our revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a significant customer.  


         Most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit. Credit is made available to customers based
on our assessment and analysis of creditworthiness. Although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to protect our credit exposure, we generally are
either subordinated to the position of the primary lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. Volatility of the capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory
changes, including changes in reimbursement, may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our customers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any customer that has a
substantial amount owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenue and results of operations. At September 30, 2013, our two largest trade receivable balances due from
customers represented approximately 32% and 13% of accounts receivable, net. 

7




 

<A
HREF="#bg12501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

    
If Walgreen Co. ("Walgreens") and/or Alliance Boots GmbH ("Alliance Boots") exercise their rights to purchase our common stock pursuant to the warrants that we
issued to them, the future issuances of shares of our common stock upon exercise of the warrants will dilute the ownership interests of our then-existing stockholders and could adversely affect the
market price of our common stock.  

         In connection with our strategic relationship with Walgreens and Alliance Boots, we entered into a Framework Agreement with Walgreens
and Alliance Boots, dated as of March 18, 2013 (the "Framework Agreement"), pursuant to which (i) Walgreens and Alliance Boots together were granted the right to purchase a minority
equity position in AmerisourceBergen, beginning with the right, but not the obligation, to purchase up to 19,859,795 shares of our common stock (approximately 7% of our common stock on a fully diluted
basis as of the date of issuance, assuming the exercise in full of the Warrants described below) in open market transactions, with the right to designate up to two members of our board of directors
upon achieving specified ownership levels; (ii) Walgreens Pharmacy Strategies, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Walgreens, was issued (a) a warrant to purchase up to 11,348,456
shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $51.50 per share exercisable during a six-month period beginning in March 2016, and (b) a warrant to purchase up to 11,348,456 shares
of our common stock at an exercise price of $52.50 per share exercisable during a six-month period beginning in March 2017; and (iii) Alliance Boots Luxembourg S.à.r.l., a
wholly owned subsidiary of Alliance Boots, was issued (a) a warrant to purchase up to 11,348,456 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $51.50 per share exercisable during a
six-month period beginning in March 2016 and (b) a warrant to purchase up to 11,348,456 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $52.50 per share exercisable during a six-month
period beginning in March 2017 (collectively, the "Warrants"). The Warrants collectively represent approximately 16% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis as of the date of issuance,
assuming exercise in full of the Warrants. The number of shares which may be purchased in the open market is subject to increase in certain circumstances if the market price of our common stock is
less than the exercise price of the first tranche of Warrants when those Warrants are exercisable in 2016. In such event, the incremental number of shares purchased in the open market would
reduce share-for-share the number of shares exercisable pursuant to the first tranche of Warrants. 


         Future
issuances of shares of our common stock upon exercise of the Warrants will dilute the ownership interests of our then-existing stockholders. In addition, the dilutive effect of
the Warrants will be reflected in our diluted earnings per share during the period that the Warrants are outstanding. A decrease in our diluted earnings per share could, in turn, adversely
affect the market value of our common stock. In addition, any sales in the public market of any common stock acquired pursuant to open market purchases by Walgreens and Alliance Boots or issuable upon
the exercise of the Warrants could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. 


    
Problems with the transition of Walgreens' business to us, our performance under the distribution agreement, and/or a disruption in our relationship with Walgreens could
adversely affect our business and financial results.  

         In March 2013, we entered into a ten-year distribution agreement with Walgreens to act as its primary wholesale distribution
source with respect to branded and generic prescription drugs. This agreement, when fully implemented, will significantly expand our relationship with Walgreens. Beginning September 1, 2013, we
became the supplier of Walgreens' branded prescription drugs. Beginning in fiscal year 2014, Walgreens will, over time, move the supply of its generic prescription drug business to us. In order
to transition the business, we will utilize unused capacity in our distribution network and will leverage prior investments in our new enterprise resource planning system. In the event there are any
unanticipated delays, costs, fees, charges, expenses, capital expenditures or disruption of our business or operations relating to our transition to becoming the single branded and generic
prescription drug wholesaler to Walgreens could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

         In
addition, our business may be adversely affected by any operational, financial or regulatory difficulties that Walgreens experiences, including any disruptions of certain of
Walgreens' existing distribution facilities or retail pharmacies resulting from ongoing inspections by the DEA and/or state regulatory agencies and possible revocation of the controlled substance
registrations for those facilities and pharmacies. If Walgreens' operations are seriously disrupted for any reason, whether by natural disaster, labor disruption, regulatory or governmental action or
otherwise, it could adversely affect our business and our sales and profitability. 

         If
our operations are seriously disrupted for any reason, we may have an obligation to pay or credit Walgreens for failure to supply products. In addition, upon the expiration or
termination of the agreement, there can be no assurance that we or Walgreens will be willing to renew the agreement or enter into a new agreement, on terms favorable to us or at all. 

    
The anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with Walgreens may not be realized.  

         We entered into the arrangement with Walgreens and Alliance Boots with the expectation that the transactions contemplated thereby would
result in various benefits including, among other things, growth in our revenues, earnings and earnings per share, cost savings and operating efficiencies, innovation and sharing of best practices. We
currently anticipate earnings accretion from the agreement for fiscal year 2014, excluding any expenses related to the Warrants, certain non-recurring costs, and certain start-up expenses. This
expectation is based on our preliminary estimates, which may materially change. The processes and initiatives needed to achieve these potential benefits are complex, costly and time-consuming. Many of
the anticipated benefits and expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. Achieving the anticipated benefits from the arrangement is
subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including: the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations, processes or initiatives, or the inability to realize and/or
delays in realizing potential benefits, including improved generic drug pricing and terms, improved service fees from generic manufacturers, cost savings, innovations, or other benefits resulting from
participation in Walgreens Boots Alliance Development, GmbH, a global sourcing joint venture between Walgreens and Alliance Boots, due to the inability of the joint venture to negotiate
successfully with generic manufacturers or otherwise to perform as expected; the transition of Walgreens' generic prescription drug distribution to us; the potential disruption of our plans and
operations as a result of this strategic arrangement, including any disruption of our cash flow and ability to return value to our stockholders in accordance with our past practices and any reduction
in our operational, strategic or financial flexibility; the potential disruption resulting from supplier and customer reaction to the strategic transaction and potential changes in supplier and 

8




 

<A
HREF="#bg12501a_main_toc">Table of Contents


customer
relationships and terms; unexpected or unforeseen costs, fees, expenses and charges incurred by us related to the transaction or the overall strategic relationship; and whether the unique
corporate cultures of separate organizations will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner. 

         In
addition, Walgreens and Alliance Boots have the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the Framework and Shareholder Agreements to invest in our common
stock. We could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances, or issues existing or arising with respect to the transactions and collaboration we anticipate resulting from the Framework and
Shareholder Agreements. Many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased benefits and the diversion of
management time and attention. If we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to
realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the price of our common stock. 

    
Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a significant supplier.  

         Our relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers, including generic pharmaceutical manufacturers, give rise to substantial amounts that
are due to us from the suppliers, including amounts owed to us for returned goods or defective goods, chargebacks, and amounts due to us for services provided to the suppliers. Volatility of the
capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory changes may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our suppliers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit
failure of any supplier at a time when the supplier has a substantial account payable balance due to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

    
Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel may increase our costs and reduce our profitability.  


         The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the federal and state levels. Consequently, we are subject to the risk of changes in
various federal and state laws, which include operating and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies. 

         In
recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations, including laws and regulations obligating pharmaceutical distributors to provide prescription drug pedigrees,
that are intended to protect the safety of the supply channel but that also may substantially increase the costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution. For example, Florida has adopted pedigree
tracking requirements and California has enacted a law requiring chain of custody technology using an interoperable electronic system utilizing unique identification numbers on prescription drugs to
create electronic pedigrees, which will be effective for us in July 2016. 

         At
the federal level, final regulations issued pursuant to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act became effective in December 2006. The FDA regulations impose pedigree and other
chain of custody requirements that increase the costs and/or burden to us of selling to other pharmaceutical distributors and handling product returns. In addition, the FDA Amendments Act
of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards and identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. These
standards may include track-and-trace and/or authentication technologies that leverage data carriers applied by the manufacturer to the sellable units and cases. The FDA is also required to develop a
standardized numerical identifier ("SNI"). In March 2010, FDA issued guidance regarding the development of SNIs for prescription drug packages in which the FDA identified package-level SNIs, as an
initial step in the FDA's development of additional measures to secure the drug supply chain. In November 2013, Congress passed the Drug Quality and Security Act ("DQSA"). The DQSA is expected
to establish federal pedigree tracking standards requiring drugs to be labelled and tracked at the lot level, preempt state drug pedigree requirements, and require supply-chain stakeholders to
participate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug track and trace system. 


         The
increased costs of complying with these pedigree and other supply chain custody requirements will increase our costs or otherwise significantly affect our results of operations. 

    
The suspension or revocation by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") of any of the registrations that must be in effect for our distribution facilities
to purchase, store and distribute controlled substances or the refusal by the DEA to issue a registration to any such facility that requires such registration may adversely affect our reputation, our
business and our results of operations.  

         The DEA, FDA, and various other federal and state regulatory authorities regulate the distribution of pharmaceuticals and controlled
substances. We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the Controlled Substances Act and its accompanying regulations
governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding and distribution of controlled substances. Government authorities may from time to time investigate whether we are in compliance with various security
and operating standards applicable to the distribution of controlled substances including whether we are adequately detecting and preventing the illegal diversion of controlled substances. We have
received, and may in the future receive, requests for information and subpoenas from the DEA, various United States Attorneys' Offices of the United States Department of Justice, and/or state
regulatory agencies related to our distribution of controlled substances or our order monitoring program, which is designed to prevent or detect the illegal diversion of controlled substances. We
generally respond to such subpoenas and requests in a cooperative, thorough, and timely manner. These responses sometimes required time and effort and can result in considerable costs being incurred
by the Company. Such subpoenas and requests also can lead to the assertion of claims or the commencement of civil, criminal, or regulatory legal proceedings against the Company, as well as to
settlements. 

         The
DEA, FDA and other federal and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our distribution centers' licenses to distribute
pharmaceutical products (including controlled substances), seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. 

9




 

<A
HREF="#bg12501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

    
Legal, regulatory and legislative changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services may adversely affect our business and
results of operations.  

         Both our business and our customers' businesses may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for
pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. 


         Federal
insurance and health care reform legislation known as the Affordable Care Act became law in March 2010. The Affordable Care Act is intended to expand health insurance
coverage to more than 30 million uninsured Americans through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of Medicaid, subsidies and health insurance mandates. When fully
implemented, these provisions are expected to increase the number of people in the United States who have insurance coverage for at least a portion of prescription drug costs. The Affordable Care Act
contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and reduce the costs of Medicare and Medicaid. While certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act
took effect immediately, others have delayed effective dates. Given the scope of the changes made by the Affordable Care Act and the ongoing implementation efforts, we cannot predict the impact of
every aspect of the new law on our operations. 

         The
Affordable Care Act changed the formula for Medicaid federal upper limits for multiple source drugs available for purchase by retail community pharmacies on a nationwide basis to a
limit of not less than 175% of the weighted average manufacturer price ("AMP"). The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS") has released for review and comment a draft federal upper
limit methodology and draft federal upper limits determined by using that methodology. While the draft federal upper limit prices released to date would represent a significant reduction from the
federal upper limits currently in place, the impact of the CMS methodology cannot be determined until finalized. Any reduction in the Medicaid reimbursement rates to our customers for certain
multisource pharmaceuticals may indirectly impact the prices that we can charge our customers for multisource pharmaceuticals and cause corresponding declines in our profitability. 

         The
Affordable Care Act also amends the Medicaid rebate statute to increase minimum Medicaid rebates paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers and make other changes affecting Medicaid rebate
amounts. The Affordable Care Act's redefinition of AMP is expected to result, in most instances, in a higher AMP. This higher AMP, coupled with the higher minimum Medicaid rebate percentage, is
expected to result in increased Medicaid rebate payments by pharmaceutical manufacturers, which could indirectly impact our business. CMS issued proposed regulations to implement the Affordable Care
Act's provisions regarding Medicaid rebates and Medicaid reimbursement to pharmacies, but the regulations have not been finalized to date. We are currently assessing the potential impact of these
provisions on our business. The federal government and state governments could take other actions in the future that impact Medicaid reimbursement and rebate amounts. For example, a number of states
have announced plans to use average acquisition cost to reimburse pharmacies for the cost of drugs. There can be no assurance that recent or future changes in prescription drug reimbursement policies
will not have an adverse impact on our business. Unless we are able to develop plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative and regulatory changes, these changes in reimbursement and
related reporting requirements could adversely affect our results of operations. 

         In
February 2011, CMS announced that it would be conducting a national survey of pharmacies to create a national database of average actual pharmacy acquisition costs, the results
of which states may use to determine state-specific pharmaceutical reimbursement rates. CMS will use pharmacies' invoiced drug acquisition costs as reported in the surveys to calculate the National
Average Drug Acquisition Cost ("NADAC"). CMS released its draft methodology for calculating the NADAC in May 2012, and began collecting survey data in June 2012. CMS has released draft
NADACs, but the methodologies and files have not yet been finalized. There can be no assurances that state pharmaceutical rates derived from this new survey data will not result in lower Medicaid
reimbursement levels or lead to other payers reducing their reimbursement levels that could adversely impact our business. 

         Our
revenue growth rate has been negatively impacted by a reduction in sales of certain anemia drugs, primarily those used in oncology, and may, in the future, be adversely affected by
any further reductions in sales or restrictions on the use of anemia drugs or a decrease in Medicare reimbursement for these drugs. Several developments contributed to the decline in sales of anemia
drugs, including expanded warning and product safety labeling requirements, more restrictive federal policies governing Medicare reimbursement for the use of these drugs to treat oncology patients
with kidney failure and dialysis and more conservative guidelines for recommended dosage and use. Any further changes in the recommended dosage or use of anemia drugs or reductions in reimbursement
for such drugs could result in slower growth or lower revenues. In addition, on January 1, 2011, CMS began implementing a prospective payment system for Medicare end-stage renal disease
("ESRD") services that provides a single bundled payment to dialysis facilities covering most ESRD services, including anemia drugs. There is a 4-year transition period to the new prospective payment
system, and CMS continues to make refinements to the payment policy. We cannot at this time assess the impact this new payment system, when fully implemented, will have on our business. 


         The
Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 significantly expanded Medicare coverage for outpatient prescription drugs through the Medicare
Part D program. The Part D Plan program has increased the use of pharmaceuticals in the supply channel, which has a positive impact on our revenues and profitability. There have been
additional changes to the Part D program since its enactment. Notably, the Affordable Care Act provides additional assistance to beneficiaries who reach the Part D "coverage gap"
(including a manufacturer discount program), mandates additional medication therapy management services and reduces Part D subsidies for certain high-income beneficiaries. CMS continues to
issue regulations and other guidance to implement these statutory changes and further refine Medicare Part D program rules. There can be no assurances that recent and future changes to the
Part D program will not have an adverse impact on our business. 

10




 

<A
HREF="#bg12501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

         The
federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare and/or Medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. For
instance, under the terms of the Budget Control Act of 2011 automatic federal spending cuts, known as sequestration, went into effect as a result of Congressional failure to adopt legislation
meeting federal deficit reduction targets. Under this policy, a 2% cut is being made to Medicare provider and plan payments, generally effective for services provided on or after April 1, 2013.
Any future reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase such drugs from us. At this time, we can provide no
assurances that future Medicare and/or Medicaid payment or policy changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business. 


    
ABSG's business may be adversely affected in the future by the impact of declining reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and other economic factors.  

         ABSG sells specialty drugs directly to physicians and community oncology practices and provides a number of services to or through
physicians. Drugs that are administered in a physician's office, such as drugs that are infused or injected, are typically covered under Medicare Part B. Declining reimbursement rates for
Medicare Part B drugs and other economic factors have caused a number of physician practices, including some of our customers, to move from private practice to hospital settings, where they may
purchase their specialty drugs under hospital prime vendor arrangements rather than from specialty distributors like ABSG. This trend may continue due to various factors, including legislative and
regulatory requirements that affect how CMS calculates average sales price ("ASP") for Medicare Part B drugs. Medicare generally reimburses physicians for Part B drugs at the rate of ASP
plus 6%. Federal changes in drug reimbursement policy have reduced and could continue to reduce Medicare reimbursement rates for some Part B drugs. For instance, the implementation of
sequestration in 2013 pursuant to the Budget Control Act of 2011 has effectively reduced reimbursement below the ASP plus 6% level for the duration of sequestration (which lasts through
fiscal year 2021 in the absence of additional legislation). These reductions could accelerate the trend of physician practices moving to or being acquired by hospitals, and could also
indirectly impact the prices we can charge our customers for pharmaceuticals and result in corresponding declines in ABSG's profitability. Any future reductions in the rate of reimbursement for drugs
covered under Medicare Part B or physician services under Medicare could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase such drugs from us. At this time,
we can provide no assurances that future Medicare reimbursement or policy changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business. 

    
Changes to the United States healthcare environment may negatively impact our business and our profitability.  

         Our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently
existing in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased
reliance on managed care; cuts in certain Medicare funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; and the development of large,
sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding at
the state or federal level for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause
healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. We expect continued government and
private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability. 

    
If we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our
operations.  

         We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The
federal government continues to strengthen its scrutiny of practices potentially involving healthcare fraud affecting Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our relationships
with healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting,
offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or the ordering or purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare,
Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under Medicare and
Medicaid programs. Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and
abuse, and these enforcement authorities were further expanded by the Affordable Care Act. While we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, many of the regulations
applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with pharmaceutical sales, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be
interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and
regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. 

    
Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by qui tam litigation.  

         Violations of various federal and state laws governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products can result in
criminal, civil, and administrative liability for which there can be significant financial damages, criminal and civil penalties, and possible exclusion from participation in federal and state health
programs. Among other things, such violations can form the basis for qui tam complaints to be filed. The qui tam provisions of the federal and various state civil False Claims Acts authorize a private
person, known as a relator, to file civil actions under these statutes on behalf of the federal and state governments. Under False Claims Acts, the filing of a qui tam complaint by a relator imposes
obligations on government authorities to investigate the allegations and determine whether or not to intervene in the action. Such cases may involve allegations around the marketing, sale, purchase,
and/or dispensing of branded and/or generic pharmaceutical products and wrongdoing in the marketing, sale, purchase and/or 

11




 

<A
HREF="#bg12501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

dispensing
of such products. Such complaints are filed under seal and remain sealed until the applicable court orders otherwise. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if
qui tam complaints are filed against us for alleged violations of any health laws and regulations and damages arising from resultant false claims, if government authorities decide to intervene in any
such matters and/or if we are found liable for all or any portion of violations alleged in any such matters. 

         The
Company has learned that there are filings in one or more federal district courts, including a qui tam complaint filed by one of our former employees, that are under seal and may
involve allegations against the Company (and/or subsidiaries or businesses of the Company, including our group purchasing organization for oncologists and our oncology distribution business) relating
to its distribution of certain pharmaceutical products to providers. With regard to any of these filings, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if government authorities
decide to intervene in any such pending cases and/or we are found liable for all or any portion of violations alleged in any such pending cases. 

    
Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult
for us to integrate.  

         We expect to continue to execute our growth strategy, in part, by acquiring companies. At any particular time, we may be in various
stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. We make public disclosure of pending and completed
acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable securities laws and regulations. 

         Acquisitions
involve numerous risks and uncertainties. If we complete one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a number of
factors, including: the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities; the fair value of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed are not properly estimated; the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential
liabilities that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the
failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions. 

    
Our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by our global operations.  

         Our operations in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. are subject to various risks inherent in global operations. The acquisition of World
Courier expanded our business globally, with operations in over 50 countries worldwide. We may consider additional foreign acquisitions in the future, which may carry operational risks in addition to
the risks of acquisition (as described above). At any particular time, our global operations may be affected by local political changes and local economic environments, including inflation, recession,
currency volatility, and competition. The realization of any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. 

    
Violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption and/or international trade laws to which we are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position,
and results of operations.  

         We are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. For
example, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"), U.S. export control and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign
countries, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. The FCPA generally prohibits U.S. companies
and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining
favorable treatment. The FCPA also requires that U.S. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting
controls. If we are found to have violated the FCPA, we may face sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with
government agencies or receive export licenses. From time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our international business
activities, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. An adverse outcome under any such investigation or
audit could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. 

    
Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  


         Our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the purchase
and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to account for other product and service transactions with
customers; to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if these
systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events or if they fail for any extended period of time, including due to the actions of third parties. 

12




 

<A
HREF="#bg12501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

         Information
security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of
cyber attacks. A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or information security breaches
could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses. As a result, cyber security
and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a
priority for us. Although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional
resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. 

         Third
party service providers are responsible for managing a significant portion of our information systems. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if the third
party service provider does not perform satisfactorily. 

         Certain
of our businesses continue to make substantial investments in information systems. To the extent the implementation of these systems fail, our business and results of operations
may be adversely affected. 

    
Anticipated benefits generally associated with the implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system may not be fully realized.  

         We completed the implementation of an ERP system that handles the business and financial processes within ABDC's operations and our
corporate and administrative functions, such as: (i) facilitating the purchase and distribution of inventory items from our distribution centers; (ii) receiving, processing, and shipping
orders on a timely basis, (iii) managing the accuracy of billings and collections for our customers; (iv) processing payments to our suppliers; and (v) generating financial
transactions and information. If the anticipated benefits from this implementation are not fully realized, our expected return on the ERP investment will not be achieved. 

    
Our stock price and our ability to access credit markets may be adversely affected by financial market volatility and disruption.  


         The capital and credit markets could experience significant volatility and disruption. If the markets experience significant disruption
and volatility in the future, there can be no assurance that we will not experience downward movement in our stock price without regard to our financial condition or results of operations or an
adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access credit generally, and on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 

    
Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  


         We are a large corporation with operations in the United States, Puerto Rico, and select global markets. As such, we are subject to tax
laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of various foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could
adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition,
United States federal, state and local, as well as foreign, tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions
will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. 

    
Natural disasters or other unexpected events may disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

         The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms
of severe weather in the U.S. or in other countries in which we operate or are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Natural disasters, power outages or other
unexpected events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products, delay in the
delivery of products to our distribution centers and/or disruption of our ability to deliver products to customers. Existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for all of the costs that
may arise from such events, particularly if such events are catastrophic in nature or occur in combination. 

13






<A
NAME="page_de12501_1_14"> 








































Table of Contents 

 ITEM 1B