ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



The following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our
business and prospects. These risks factors are in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this
report.



Intense competition as well as industry consolidations may erode our profit margins.


The distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare solutions is highly competitive.
We compete with two national wholesale distributors of pharmaceuticals, Cardinal and McKesson;
national generic distributors; regional and local distributors of pharmaceuticals; chain drugstores
that warehouse their own pharmaceuticals; manufacturers that distribute their products directly to
customers; specialty distributors; and packaging and healthcare technology companies (see
“Competition”). Competition continues to increase in specialty distribution and services, where
gross margins historically have been higher than in ABDC. Reflecting that increased competition,
recently, our two national competitors have announced or completed acquisitions to expand their
footprint in
the area of specialty distribution and services. If we were forced by competition to reduce
our prices or offer more favorable payment or other terms, our results of operations or liquidity
could be adversely affected. In addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry has been
subject to increasing consolidation. If this trend continues among our customers and suppliers, it
could give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to greater pressure
to reduce prices for our products and services.

 

8




Table of Contents




Our results of operations continue to be subject to the risks and uncertainties of inflation
in branded pharmaceutical prices and deflation in generic pharmaceutical prices.


Certain distribution service agreements that we have entered into with branded pharmaceutical
manufacturers continue to have an inflation-based compensation component to them. Arrangements
with a small number of branded manufacturers continue to be solely inflation-based. As a result,
approximately 10% of our gross profit from brand-name manufacturers continues to be subject to
fluctuation based upon the timing and extent of price appreciation. If the frequency or rate of
branded pharmaceutical price inflation slows, our results of operations could be adversely
affected. In addition, we distribute generic pharmaceuticals, which are subject to price
deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, our
results of operations could be adversely affected.



Declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition.


Our operations and performance depend on economic conditions in the United States and other
countries where we do business. Deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely
affect the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products
purchased by consumers and, therefore, reduce purchases by our customers, which would negatively
affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. Interest rate fluctuations,
financial market volatility or credit market disruptions may also negatively affect our customers’
ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms. Reduced purchases by our
customers or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a
decrease in our cash flow from operations. Bankruptcies or similar events affecting our customers
may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Declining
economic conditions may also increase our costs. If the economic conditions in the United States
or in the regions outside the United States where we do business do not improve or deteriorate, our
results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected.



Our stock price and our ability to access credit markets may be adversely affected by financial
market volatility and disruption.


The capital and credit markets experienced significant volatility and disruption, particularly
in the latter half of 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009. In some cases, the markets produced
downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to
those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If the markets return to the levels of disruption
and volatility experienced in the latter half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, there can be
no assurance that we will not experience downward movement in our stock price without regard to our
financial condition or results of operations or an adverse effect, which may be material, on our
ability to access credit generally, and on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results
of operations.


Our receivables securitization facility expires in April 2011. While we did not have any
borrowings outstanding under this facility as of September 30, 2010, we have historically utilized
amounts available to us under this facility, from time to time, to meet our business needs.
Additionally, our multi-currency revolving credit facility expires in November 2011. In fiscal
2011, we will seek to renew these facilities at available market rates, which may be higher than
the rates currently available to us. While we believe we will be able to renew these facilities,
there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so.



Our revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the loss of a significant customer.


Our largest customer, Medco Health Solutions, Inc., accounted for 18% of our revenue in fiscal
2010. Our top ten customers represented approximately 42% of fiscal 2010 revenue. We also have
contracts with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), each of which functions as a purchasing
agent on behalf of its members, who are hospitals, pharmacies or other healthcare providers.
Approximately 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2010 was derived from our three largest GPO
relationships. We may lose a significant customer or GPO relationship if any existing contract
with such customer or GPO expires without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is
terminated by the customer or GPO prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is
permitted by the contract. A number of our contracts with significant customers or GPOs are
typically subject to expiration each year and we may lose any of these customers or GPO
relationships if we are unable to extend, renew, renegotiate or replace the contracts. The loss of
any significant customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect our revenue and results of
operations.

 

9




Table of Contents




Our revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit
failure of a significant customer.


Most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit.
Credit is made available to customers based on our assessment and analysis of creditworthiness.
Although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to
protect our credit exposure, we generally are either subordinated to the position of the primary
lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. Volatility of the capital and credit markets,
general economic conditions, and regulatory changes, including changes in reimbursement, may
adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our customers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or
other credit failure of any customer that has a substantial amount owed to us could have a material
adverse affect on our operating revenue and results of operations. At September 30, 2010, the
largest trade receivable balance due from a single customer represented approximately 8% of
accounts receivable, net.



Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a
significant supplier.


Our
relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers, including generic
pharmaceutical manufacturers, give rise to substantial amounts that are due
to us from the suppliers, including amounts owed to us for returned goods or defective goods,
chargebacks, and amounts due to us for services provided to the suppliers. Volatility of the
capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory changes may adversely
affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our suppliers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other
credit failure of any supplier at a time when the supplier has a substantial account payable
balance due to us could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations.



Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel may increase our
costs and reduce our profitability.


The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the federal and state level. Consequently, we
are subject to the risk of changes in various federal and state laws, which include operating and
security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of
pharmacy and comparable agencies.
In recent years, some states have passed or have proposed laws and regulations, including laws and
regulations obligating pharmaceutical distributors to provide prescription drug pedigrees, that are
intended to protect the safety of the supply channel but that also may substantially increase the
costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution. For example, the Florida Prescription Drug
Pedigree laws and regulations that became effective in July 2006 imposed obligations upon us to
deliver prescription drug pedigrees to various categories of customers. In order to comply with
the Florida requirements, we implemented an e-pedigree system at our distribution center in Florida
that required significant capital outlays. Other states have adopted laws and regulations that
would require us to implement pedigree capabilities in those other states similar to the pedigree
capabilities implemented for Florida. For example, California has enacted a law requiring the
implementation of costly track and trace chain of custody technologies, such as radio frequency
identification device (“RFID”) technologies, although the effective date of the law has been
postponed until January 1, 2015 for pharmaceutical manufacturers and until July 1, 2016 for
pharmaceutical wholesalers and repackagers. At the federal level, the FDA issued final regulations
pursuant to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act that became effective in December 2006. The
regulations impose pedigree and other chain of custody requirements that increase the costs and/or
burden to us of selling to other pharmaceutical distributors and handling product returns. In
December 2006, the federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York issued a preliminary
injunction temporarily enjoining the implementation of certain of the FDA pedigree regulations in
response to a case initiated by secondary distributors. The federal Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit affirmed this injunction on July 10, 2008. In late 2009, the parties filed a joint
motion to stay discovery and agreed to administrative closing of the file to monitor the progress
of counterfeit drug enforcement legislation then pending in Congress. On September 30, 2010, the
parties filed a joint motion to extend this stay until June 30, 2011 because the bill that led to
the administrative closing was (and currently remains) pending in Congress. Either party may
re-open the file at any time before June 30, 2011; however, if no letter application is made to
re-open the file by that time, the parties may be considered to have abandoned their claims and/or
defenses in the case. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this legal proceeding.


In addition, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards and
identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply
chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include track-and-trace or authentication
technologies, such as RFID devices and other technologies. The 2007 Act requires the FDA to
develop a standardized numerical identifier (SNI) by April 1, 2010. In March 2010, FDA issued
guidance regarding the development of SNIs for prescription drug packages. In this guidance, FDA
identifies package-level SNIs, as an initial step in FDA’s development and implementation of
additional measures to secure the drug supply chain. The increased costs of complying with these
pedigree and other supply chain custody requirements could increase our costs or otherwise
significantly affect our results of operations.

 

10




Table of Contents




The suspension or revocation by the DEA of any of the registrations that must be in effect for our
distribution facilities to purchase, store and distribute controlled substances or the refusal by
DEA to issue a registration to any such facility that requires such registration may adversely
affect our reputation, our business and our results of operations.


The DEA, FDA and various state regulatory authorities regulate the distribution of
pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level
licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the Controlled Substance
Act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding and
distribution of controlled substances. The DEA, FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad
enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our distribution centers’ licenses to
distribute pharmaceutical products (including controlled substances), seize or recall products and
impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and
regulations.


In 2007, our Orlando, Florida distribution center’s license to distribute controlled
substances and listed chemicals was suspended and later reinstated under an agreement with the DEA,
when we implemented an enhanced and more sophisticated order-monitoring program in all of our ABDC
distribution centers. In addition, in 2008, one of our subsidiaries, Bellco Drug Corp., received a
new DEA registration (following the suspension of its license and entry into a consent judgment
with the DEA prior to our acquisition of the business). While we expect to continue to comply with
all of the DEA’s requirements, there can be no assurance that the DEA will not require further
controls against the diversion of controlled substances in the future or will not take similar
action against any other of our distribution centers in the future.



Legal, regulatory and legislative changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or
medical treatments or services may adversely affect our business and results of operations.


Both our business and the businesses of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and
regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services
or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined.


In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and
Education and Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively known as the “Affordable Care Act”) became
law. The Affordable Care Act is intended to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32
million uninsured Americans through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of
Medicaid, subsidies, and health insurance mandates. When fully implemented, these provisions are
expected to increase the number of people in the United States who have insurance coverage for at
least a portion of prescription drug costs. Other provisions of the Affordable Care Act seek to
reduce health care spending, such as by increasing manufacturer Medicaid drug rebates, revising the
calculation of Medicaid drug reimbursement, establishing an Independent Payment Advisory Board to
achieve additional Medicare savings, and establishing a regulatory pathway for the approval of
follow-on biologicals, promoting value-based purchasing, and making other major changes to
reimbursement for most types of Medicare providers and suppliers. In addition, the Affordable Care
Act provides for a number of changes to the Medicare Part D program, including additional subsidies
for beneficiaries in the Part D “coverage gap.” The law also requires drug and device manufacturers
to disclose their relationships with physicians and teaching hospitals. It requires manufacturers
and group purchasing organizations that do business with federal health programs to disclose
certain physician ownership and investment interests. The Affordable Care Act also imposes, among
many other policy changes, significant new fees and excise taxes on pharmaceutical and medical
device manufacturers, expands enforcement authority to prevent fraud and abuse, expands comparative
effectiveness research and requires testing of health care delivery reforms. While certain
provisions of the Affordable Care Act took effect immediately, others have delayed effective dates.
Given the scope of the changes made by the Affordable Care Act and the ongoing implementation
efforts, we cannot predict at this time the impact of the new law on our operations.


Effective January 1, 2007, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) changed the federal upper
payment limit for Medicaid reimbursement from 150% of the lowest published price for generic
pharmaceuticals to 250% of the lowest average manufacturer price (“AMP”). On July 17, 2007, CMS
published a final rule implementing these provisions and clarifying, among other things, the AMP
calculation methodology and the DRA provision requiring the Secretary of Health and Human Services
to provide AMP data to the states on a monthly basis, and also to disclose, through a website
accessible to the public, AMP prices for branded and generic pharmaceuticals. In December 2007,
the United States District Court for the District of Columbia issued a preliminary injunction that
enjoins CMS from implementing certain provisions of the AMP rule to the extent that it affects
Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail pharmacies under the Medicaid program. The order also
enjoins CMS from disclosing AMP data to states and disclosing the pricing on a website accessible
to the public. In October 2008, CMS issued a separate final rule stating that the federal upper
limits will govern in all states unless a state finds that a particular generic drug is not
available within that state. These payment limits remain unenforced as a result of the 2007
preliminary injunction. The outcome of the ongoing litigation in the District of Columbia is
unknown. The Medicaid Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (“MIPPA”) delayed the
adoption of certain provisions of CMS’s July 17, 2007 rule and prevented CMS from publishing AMP
data before October 1, 2009. On November 15, 2010, CMS

 

11




Table of Contents




published a final rule withdrawing certain provisions of the July 2007 and October 2008 final
rules in light of the legal challenges to the rules and the enactment of the Affordable Care Act,
which includes provisions that redefined “average manufacturer price” and “multiple source drug,”
and established a new formula for calculating federal upper limits. Under the Affordable Care Act,
federal upper limits for multiple source drugs available for purchase by retail community
pharmacies on a nationwide basis are set at no less than 175% of the weighted average (determined
on the basis of utilization) of the most recently reported monthly AMP (using a smoothing process).
Any reduction in the Medicaid reimbursement rates to our customers for certain generic
pharmaceuticals may indirectly impact the prices that we can charge our customers for generic
pharmaceuticals and cause corresponding declines in our profitability. The Affordable Care Act
also amends the Medicaid rebate statute to, among other things, increase minimum Medicaid rebates
paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers, increase “additional rebates” for new formulations of certain
brand name drugs, establish a maximum rebate, and extend rebates to the states for drugs dispensed
to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations. The Affordable Care Act’s
redefinition of AMP is expected to, result, in most instances, in a higher AMP. This higher AMP,
coupled with the higher minimum Medicaid rebate percentage, is expected to result in increased
Medicaid rebate payments by pharmaceutical manufacturers, which could indirectly impact our
business. We are currently assessing the potential impact of these provisions on our business.
The federal government also could take other actions in the future that impact Medicaid
reimbursement and rebate amounts. There can be no assurance that recent or future changes in
prescription drug reimbursement policies will not have an adverse impact on our business. Unless we
are able to develop plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative and regulatory
changes, these changes in reimbursement and related reporting requirements could adversely affect
our results of operations.


First DataBank, Inc. and Medi-Span publish drug databases that contain drug information and
pricing data. The pricing data includes average wholesale price, or AWP, which is a pricing
benchmark widely used to calculate a portion of the Medicaid and Medicare Part D reimbursements
payable to pharmacy providers. AWP is also used to establish the pricing of pharmaceuticals to
certain of our pharmaceutical distribution customers in Puerto Rico. On September 3, 2009, the
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit upheld settlements in class action litigation concerning the
calculations of AWP pricing data. Under the settlements, First DataBank, Inc. and Medi-Span
reduced to 20% the markup on about 1,400 drugs included in the litigation. The companies also
reduced to 20% the markup on all drugs with a mark-up higher than 20% and are expected to stop
publishing AWP in 2011. We continue to evaluate the impact that these actions could have on the
business of our customers and our business. There can be no assurances that these settlements and
related actions will not have an adverse impact on the business of our customers and/or our
business.


The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007, among other things, requires CMS to
adjust Medicare Part B drug average sales price (“ASP”) calculations to use volume-weighed ASPs
based on actual sales volume. This law, which became effective April 1, 2008, has reduced and
could continue to reduce Medicare reimbursement rates for some Part B drugs, which may indirectly
impact the prices we can charge our customers for pharmaceuticals and result in reductions in our
profitability. The reduction in reimbursement rates for Part B drugs particularly affects our ABSG
customers, some of whom have moved from private practice to hospital settings. ABSG’s business may
be adversely affected in the future by these and other changes in Medicare reimbursement rates for
certain pharmaceuticals, including oncology drugs administered by physicians. Since ABSG provides
a number of services to or through physicians, this could result in slower growth or lower revenues
for ABSG.


Our revenue growth rate has been negatively impacted by a reduction in sales of certain anemia
drugs, primarily those used in oncology, and may, in the future, be adversely affected by any
further reductions in sales or restrictions on the use of anemia drugs or a decrease in Medicare
reimbursement for these drugs. Several developments contributed to the decline in sales of anemia
drugs, including expanded warning and other product safety labeling requirements, more restrictive
federal policies governing Medicare reimbursement for the use of these drugs to treat oncology
patients with kidney failure and dialysis, and changes in regulatory and clinical medical
guidelines for recommended dosage and use. In addition, the FDA is requiring all erythropoiesis
stimulating agents (anemia drugs or ESAs) to be prescribed and used under a “risk evaluation and
mitigation strategy” (“REMS”), to ensure the safe use of these drugs and has announced that it is
reviewing new clinical study data concerning the possible risks associated with anemia drugs and
may take additional action with regard to these drugs. CMS also is reviewing Medicare coverage
policy for these drugs for treatment of anemia in adults with chronic kidney disease, and
additional reviews are possible in the future. Any further changes in the recommended dosage or
use of anemia drugs or reductions in reimbursement for such drugs could result in slower growth or
lower revenues. In addition, beginning in January 1, 2011, CMS is implementing a prospective
payment system for Medicare end-stage renal disease (ESRD) services, as mandated by MIPPA, that
provides a single bundled payment to dialysis facilities covering most ESRD services, including
ESAs (including any oral forms) that are furnished to individuals for the treatment of ESRD. We
cannot at this time assess the impact this upcoming payment system
will have on our business. Our sales of anemia drugs, including those used in
oncology, represented approximately 5% of revenue in fiscal 2010.

 

12




Table of Contents



The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”) significantly
expanded Medicare coverage for outpatient prescription drugs through the new Medicare Part D
program. Beginning in 2006, Medicare beneficiaries became eligible to enroll in outpatient
prescription drug plans that are offered by private entities and became eligible for varying levels
of coverage for outpatient prescription drugs. The Part D Plan program has increased the use of
pharmaceuticals in the supply channel, which has a positive impact on our revenues and
profitability. MIPPA and the Affordable Care Act both made additional
changes to the Part D program. Notably, the Affordable Care Act provides additional
assistance to beneficiaries who reach the Part D “coverage gap” (including a manufacturer discount
program), mandates additional medication therapy management services, reduces Part D subsidies for
certain high-income beneficiaries, and mandates new dispensing techniques for dispensing drugs to
long-term care residents to reduce prescription drug waste beginning in 2012. CMS continues to
issue regulations and other guidance to implement these statutory changes and further refine
Medicare Part D program rules. There can be no assurances that recent and future changes to the
Part D program will not have an adverse impact on our business.


The federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare
and/or Medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. At this time,
we can provide no assurances that such changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our
business.



Changes to the United States healthcare environment may negatively impact our business and our
profitability.


Our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare
financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the United States. In recent years, the
healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government
spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain Medicare
funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers
and customers; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the
healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential
changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding at the state or federal level for certain
healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug
pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to
reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay
for our products and services. We expect continued government and private payor pressure to reduce
pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies
could also significantly reduce our profitability.



If we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we could
suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.


We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations
relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to strengthen its
position and scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting Medicare, Medicaid and
other government healthcare programs. Our relationships with healthcare providers and
pharmaceutical manufacturers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which,
among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any
remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or the ordering or
purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other
government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring
physicians and providers of designated health services under Medicare and Medicaid programs.
Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel
substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse, and these
enforcement authorities were further expanded by the Affordable Care Act. While we believe that we
are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, many of the regulations applicable to
us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with pharmaceutical
sales, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be
interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could
require us to make changes in our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and
regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our
ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.



The enactment of provincial legislation or regulations in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product
pricing and service fees may adversely affect our pharmaceutical distribution business in Canada,
including the profitability of that business.


As in the United States, our products and services function within the existing regulatory
structure of the healthcare system in Canada. The purchase of pharmaceutical products in Canada is
funded in part by the provincial governments, which each regulate the financing and reimbursement
of drugs independently. In recent years, like the United States, the Canadian healthcare industry
has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. For
example, in 2006, the Ontario government enacted the Transparent Drug System for Patients Act,
which significantly revised the drug distribution system in Ontario. On July 1, 2010, the Ontario
government finalized regulatory changes to reform the rules regarding the sale of generic drugs in
Ontario to, among other things, reduce costs for taxpayers. These changes include the significant
lowering of prices for generic pharmaceuticals in both the public (government-sponsored plans) and
private markets and the elimination of professional allowances paid to pharmacists. Changes in
generic drug prices also affect the cash values of the percentage mark-ups that may be charged by
pharmacies. These reforms may result in lower service fees, cause healthcare industry
participants to reduce the amount of products and services they purchase from us or the price they
are willing to pay for our products and services. In addition, any fees based on percentage of
drug prices will be reduced by any reductions to generic drug prices themselves. Legislation
and/or regulations that may lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees are reportedly
under consideration by some other provinces as well. The legislative
changes in Ontario had an immediate impact on Quebec because it requires manufacturers to sell
pharmaceuticals to Quebec at the lowest price in Canada. The governments of Alberta and British
Columbia have also taken steps to reduce the prices for generic drugs listed on their formularies.
We expect continued government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing.
Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies could also significantly
reduce our profitability in Canada. Revenue from our Canadian
operations in fiscal 2010 was less than 2% of our consolidated
revenue.

 

13




Table of Contents




Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by qui tam litigation.


Violations of various federal and state laws governing the marketing, sale and purchase of
pharmaceutical products can result in criminal, civil, and administrative liability for which there
can be significant financial damages, criminal and civil penalties, and possible exclusion from
participation in federal and state health programs. Among other things, such violations can form
the basis for qui tam complaints to be filed. The qui tam provisions of both the federal civil
False Claims Act and various state civil False Claims Acts authorize a private person, known as a
“relator” (i.e. whistleblower), to file civil actions under these federal and state statutes on
behalf of the federal and state governments. Under the federal civil False Claims Act and the
applicable state civil False Claims Acts, the filing of a qui tam complaint by a relator imposes
obligations on federal and state government authorities to investigate the allegations and to
determine whether or not to intervene in the action. Such cases may involve allegations around the
marketing, sale and/or purchase of branded pharmaceutical products and wrongdoing in the marketing,
sale and/or purchase of such products. Such complaints are filed under seal and remain sealed
until the applicable court orders otherwise. Our business and results of operations could be
adversely affected if qui tam complaints are filed against us for alleged violations of any health
laws and regulations and for damages arising from resultant false claims and if government
authorities decide to intervene in any such matters and/or we are found liable for all or any
portion of violations alleged in any such matters.


A qui tam matter is pending in the United States District Court for the District of
Massachusetts (the “Federal District Court Action”) naming Amgen Inc. as well as two business units
of AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group, ASD Specialty Healthcare, Inc. (“ASD”), and International
Nephrology Network (“INN”), as defendants, as described in Note 12 (Legal Matters and
Contingencies) of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.


Under the federal civil False Claims Act and the applicable state civil False Claims Acts, the
filing of the original qui tam complaint by the former Amgen employee triggered obligations of
federal and certain state government authorities to investigate the allegations and to determine
whether or not to intervene in the action. In connection with this investigative process, the
Company has received subpoenas for records issued by the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Eastern District of New York (the “Department of Justice”). The allegations of the plaintiffs in
the Federal District Court Action are within the scope of the Department of Justice’s subpoenas.
The Company has been cooperating with the Department of Justice in the inquiry and is producing
records in response to the subpoenas.


The Company has learned that there are both prior and subsequent filings in another federal
district, including a complaint filed by a former employee of the
Company, that are under seal and
that involve allegations similar to those in the Federal District Court Action against the same
and/or additional subsidiaries or businesses of the Company that are defendants in the Federal
District Court Action, including the Company’s group purchasing organization for oncologists and
the Company’s oncology distribution business. The Department of Justice’s investigation of the
allegations being pursued in the Federal District Court Action appears to include investigation of
the allegations contained in some or all of these other filings.


Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we are found liable for
the violations alleged in the Federal District Court Action and/or if the Department of Justice
should elect to intervene in the pending case and/or if there should be any other qui tam cases
that arise against us or are pending but yet unsealed, including cases against the same and/or
additional subsidiaries or businesses of the Company that are defendants in the Federal District
Court action.



Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake
acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to
integrate.


We expect to continue to implement our growth strategy, in part, by acquiring companies. At
any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with
regard to one or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. We make public
disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable
securities laws and regulations.


Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties. If we complete one or more
acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a
number of factors, including: the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have
projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities; the fair value of
assets acquired and liabilities assumed; the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and
operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities
that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the difficulties in the integration
of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the
failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions.

 

14




Table of Contents




Our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by foreign
operations.


We have pharmaceutical distribution operations based in Canada and provide contract packaging
and clinical trials materials services in the United Kingdom. We may consider additional foreign
acquisitions in the future. Our existing foreign operations and any operations we may acquire in
the future carry risks in addition to the risks of acquisition, as described above. At any
particular time, foreign operations may encounter risks and uncertainties regarding the
governmental, political, economic, business and competitive environment within the countries in
which those operations are based. Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency
fluctuations that could impact our results of operations and financial condition based on the
movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar.



Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our
business and results of operations.


Our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze,
and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from
numerous distribution centers; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to account
for other product and service transactions with customers; to manage the accurate billing and
collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Our business and
results of operations may be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted or damaged by
unforeseen events or if they fail for any extended period of time, including due to the actions of
third parties. A third party service provider (IBM) is responsible for managing a significant
portion of ABDC’s information systems. Our business and results of operations may be adversely
affected if the third party service provider does not perform satisfactorily.


Certain of our businesses continue to make substantial investments in information systems. To
the extent the implementation of these systems fail, our business and results of operations may be
adversely affected.



Risks generally associated with implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system may
adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting.


We have begun to implement an ERP system, which, when completed, will handle the business and
financial processes within ABDC’s operations and our corporate and administrative functions, such
as: (i) facilitating the purchase and distribution of inventory items from our distribution
centers; (ii) receiving, processing, and shipping orders on a timely basis, (iii) managing the
accuracy of billings and collections for our customers; (iv) processing payments to our suppliers;
and (v) generating financial transactions and information. ERP implementations are complex and
time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation
activities that can continue for several years. ERP implementations also require transformation of
business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Our business and
results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems and/or cost
overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system, and the associated process
changes, do not give rise to the benefits that we expect.


Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the ERP system as planned or if the system
does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect our financial reporting systems, our
ability to produce financial reports, and/or the effectiveness of our internal controls over
financial reporting.



Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results
of operations and financial condition.


We are a large corporation with operations in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and the
United Kingdom. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the United States federal,
state and local governments and of certain foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various
legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our
tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be
adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as
well as foreign, tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying
interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by
relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.


 

15




Table of Contents








ITEM 1B