ITEM 1A.
     
    RISK FACTORS




The following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our
business and prospects. These risks factors are in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this
report.



Intense competition as well as industry consolidations may erode our profit margins.


The distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare solutions is highly competitive.
We compete with two national wholesale distributors of pharmaceuticals, Cardinal and McKesson;
regional and local distributors of pharmaceuticals; national generic distributors; chain drugstores
that warehouse their own pharmaceuticals; manufacturers that distribute their products directly to
customers; specialty distributors; and packaging and healthcare technology companies (see
“Competition”). Competition continues to increase in specialty distribution and services, where
gross margins historically have been higher than in ABDC. Reflecting that increased competition,
our two national competitors have recently completed acquisitions to expand their footprint in the
area of specialty distribution and services. If we were forced by competition to reduce our prices
or offer more favorable payment or other terms, our results of operations or liquidity could be
adversely affected. In addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry has been subject to
increasing consolidation. If this trend continues among our customers and suppliers, it could give
the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to greater pressure to reduce
prices for our products and services.



Our results of operations continue to be subject to the risks and uncertainties of inflation
in branded pharmaceutical prices and deflation in generic pharmaceutical prices.


Certain distribution service agreements that we have entered into with branded pharmaceutical
manufacturers continue to have an inflation-based compensation component to them. Arrangements
with a small number of branded manufacturers continue to be solely inflation-based. As a result,
approximately 8% of our gross profit from brand-name manufacturers continues to be subject to
fluctuation based upon the timing and extent of manufacturer price increases. If the frequency or
rate of branded pharmaceutical price increases slows, our results of operations could be adversely
affected. In addition, we distribute generic pharmaceuticals, which are subject to price
deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, our
results of operations could be adversely affected.



Declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition.


Our operations and performance depend on economic conditions in the United States and other
countries where we do business. Deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely
affect the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products
purchased by consumers and, therefore, reduce purchases by our customers, which would negatively
affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. Interest rate fluctuations,
financial market volatility or credit market disruptions may also negatively affect our customers’
ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms. Reduced purchases by our
customers or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a
decrease in our cash flow from operations. Bankruptcies or similar events affecting our customers
may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Declining
economic conditions may also increase our costs. If the economic conditions in the United States
or in the regions outside the United States where we do business do not improve or deteriorate, our
results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected.



Our stock price and our ability to access credit markets may be adversely affected by financial
market volatility and disruption.


Despite our recent success amending our multi-currency revolving credit facility, amending our
receivables securitization facility, and issuing $500 million of ten-year senior notes, in recent
years, the capital and credit markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption. For
example, in the latter half of 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009, the markets produced downward
pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those
issuers’ underlying financial strength. If the markets return to the levels of disruption and
volatility experienced in the latter half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, there can be no
assurance that we will not experience downward movement in our stock price without regard to our
financial condition or results of operations or an adverse effect, which may be material, on our
ability to access credit generally, and on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results
of operations.

 

8




Table of Contents




Our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows may suffer upon the loss of a significant
customer.


Our largest customer, Medco Health Solutions, Inc., accounted for 19% of our revenue in fiscal
2011. Our top ten customers represented approximately 43% of fiscal 2011 revenue. In July 2011,
Medco announced its intention to merge with Express Scripts, Inc., which will be the surviving
corporation and is a customer of one of our competitors. Our business with Medco contributes
approximately 5% of our earnings. Our current contract with Medco continues at least through March
2013. We will make every effort to extend our relationship with the combined entity upon the
expiration of our current contract; however, if we fail to do so, our revenue, earnings and cash flows would be significantly impacted. We also have contracts with
group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), each of which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of
its members, who are hospitals, pharmacies or other healthcare providers. Approximately 10% of our
revenue in fiscal 2011 was derived from our three largest GPO relationships. We may lose a
significant customer or GPO relationship if any existing contract with such customer or GPO expires
without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is terminated by the customer or GPO
prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is permitted by the contract. A number
of our contracts with significant customers or GPOs are typically subject to expiration each year
and we may lose any of these customers or GPO relationships if we are unable to extend, renew,
renegotiate or replace the contracts. The loss of any significant customer or GPO relationship
could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows.



Our revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit
failure of a significant customer.


Most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit.
Credit is made available to customers based on our assessment and analysis of creditworthiness.
Although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to
protect our credit exposure, we generally are either subordinated to the position of the primary
lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. Volatility of the capital and credit markets,
general economic conditions, and regulatory changes, including changes in reimbursement, may
adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our customers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or
other credit failure of any customer that has a substantial amount owed to us could have a material
adverse affect on our operating revenue and results of operations. At September 30, 2011, our two
largest trade receivable balances due from customers represented approximately 11% and 10% of
accounts receivable, net.



Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a
significant supplier.


Our relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers, including generic pharmaceutical
manufacturers, give rise to substantial amounts that are due to us from the suppliers, including
amounts owed to us for returned goods or defective goods, chargebacks, and amounts due to us for
services provided to the suppliers. Volatility of the capital and credit markets, general economic
conditions, and regulatory changes may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our
suppliers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any supplier at a time when the
supplier has a substantial account payable balance due to us could have a material adverse affect
on our results of operations.



Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel may increase our
costs and reduce our profitability.


The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the federal and state levels. Consequently, we
are subject to the risk of changes in various federal and state laws, which include operating and
security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies.


In recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations, including laws and
regulations obligating pharmaceutical distributors to provide prescription drug pedigrees, that are
intended to protect the safety of the supply channel but that also may substantially increase the
costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution. For example, Florida has adopted pedigree
tracking requirements and California has enacted a law requiring chain of custody technology using
an interoperable electronic system utilizing unique identification numbers on prescription drugs to
create electronic pedigrees, which will be effective for us in July 2016. In order to comply with
the Florida requirements, we implemented an e-pedigree system at our distribution center in Florida
that required significant capital outlays.


At the federal level, final regulations issued pursuant to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act
became effective in December 2006. The FDA regulations impose pedigree and other chain of custody
requirements that increase the costs and/or burden to us of selling to other pharmaceutical
distributors and handling product returns. In addition, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires
the FDA to establish standards and identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of
securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include
track-and-trace and/or authentication technologies that leverage data carriers applied by the
manufacturer to the sellable units and cases. The FDA is also required to develop a standardized
numerical identifier (“SNI”). In March 2010, FDA issued guidance regarding the development of SNIs
for prescription drug packages in which the FDA identified package-level SNIs, as an initial step
in the FDA’s development of additional measures to secure the drug supply chain. The increased
costs of complying with these pedigree and other supply chain custody requirements could increase
our costs or otherwise significantly affect our results of operations.

 

9




Table of Contents




The suspension or revocation by the DEA of any of the registrations that must be in effect for our
distribution facilities to purchase, store and distribute controlled substances or the refusal by
the DEA to issue a registration to any such facility that requires such registration may adversely
affect our reputation, our business and our results of operations.


The DEA, FDA and various state regulatory authorities regulate the distribution of
pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level
licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the Controlled Substance
Act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding and
distribution of controlled substances. The DEA, FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad
enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our distribution centers’ licenses to
distribute pharmaceutical products (including controlled substances), seize or recall products and
impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and
regulations.


In 2007, our Orlando, Florida distribution center’s license to distribute controlled
substances and listed chemicals was suspended and later reinstated under an agreement with the DEA,
when we implemented an enhanced and more sophisticated order-monitoring program in all of our ABDC
distribution centers. In addition, in 2008, one of our subsidiaries, Bellco Drug Corp., received a
new DEA registration (following the suspension of its license and entry into a consent judgment
with the DEA prior to our acquisition of the business). While we expect to continue to comply with
all of the DEA’s requirements, there can be no assurance that the DEA will not require further
controls against the diversion of controlled substances in the future or will not take similar
action against any other of our distribution centers in the future.



Legal, regulatory and legislative changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or
medical treatments or services may adversely affect our business and results of operations.


Both our business and our customers’ businesses may be adversely affected by laws and
regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services
or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined.


Federal legislation known as the Affordable Care Act became law in March 2010. The Affordable
Care Act is intended to expand health insurance coverage to more than 30 million uninsured
Americans through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of Medicaid, subsidies
and health insurance mandates. When fully implemented, these provisions are expected to increase
the number of people in the United States who have insurance coverage for at least a portion of
prescription drug costs. The Affordable Care Act contains many provisions designed to generate the
revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and reduce the costs of Medicare and Medicaid.
While certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act took effect immediately, others have delayed
effective dates. Given the scope of the changes made by the Affordable Care Act and the ongoing
implementation efforts, we cannot predict the impact of every aspect of the new law on our
operations.


The Affordable Care Act changed the formula for federal upper limits for multiple source drugs
available for purchase by retail community pharmacies on a nationwide basis to a limit of not less
than 175% of the weighted average manufacturer price (“AMP”). The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services (“CMS”) have released for review and comment a draft federal upper limit methodology and
draft federal upper limits determined by using that methodology. While the draft federal upper
limit prices released to date would represent a significant reduction from the federal upper limits
currently in place, the impact of the CMS methodology cannot be determined until finalized. Any
reduction in the Medicaid reimbursement rates to our customers for certain multisource
pharmaceuticals may indirectly impact the prices that we can charge our customers for multisource
pharmaceuticals and cause corresponding declines in our profitability.


The Affordable Care Act also amends the Medicaid rebate statute to increase minimum Medicaid
rebates paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers and make other changes affecting Medicaid rebate
amounts. The Affordable Care Act’s redefinition of AMP is expected to result, in most instances,
in a higher AMP. This higher AMP, coupled with the higher minimum Medicaid rebate percentage, is
expected to result in increased Medicaid rebate payments by pharmaceutical manufacturers, which
could indirectly impact our business. We are currently assessing the potential impact of these
provisions on our business. The federal government could take other actions in the future that
impact Medicaid reimbursement and rebate amounts. There can be no assurance that recent or future
changes in prescription drug reimbursement policies will not have an adverse impact on our
business. Unless we are able to develop plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative
and regulatory changes, these changes in reimbursement and related reporting requirements could
adversely affect our results of operations.


In February 2011, the federal Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) announced that
it would be conducting a national survey of pharmacies to create a national database of average
actual pharmacy acquisition costs, the results of which states may use to determine state-specific
pharmaceutical reimbursement rates. There can be no assurances that state pharmaceutical rates
derived from this new data will not result in lower Medicaid reimbursement levels that could
adversely impact our business.

 

10




Table of Contents



Our revenue growth rate has been negatively impacted by a reduction in sales of certain anemia
drugs, primarily those used in oncology, and may, in the future, be adversely affected by any
further reductions in sales or restrictions on the use of anemia drugs or a decrease in Medicare
reimbursement for these drugs. Several developments contributed to the decline in sales of anemia
drugs, including expanded warning and product safety labeling requirements, more restrictive
federal policies governing Medicare reimbursement for the use of these drugs to treat oncology
patients with kidney failure and dialysis and more conservative guidelines for recommended dosage
and use. Any further changes in the recommended dosage or use of anemia drugs or reductions in
reimbursement for such drugs could result in slower growth or lower revenues. In addition, on
January 1, 2011, CMS began implementing a prospective payment system for Medicare end-stage renal
disease (ESRD) services that provides a single bundled payment to dialysis facilities covering most
ESRD services, including anemia drugs. There is a 4-year transition period to the new prospective
payment system. We cannot at this time assess the impact this new payment system, when fully
implemented, will have on our business. Our sales of anemia drugs, including those used in
oncology, represented approximately 4% of revenue in fiscal 2011.


The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 significantly
expanded Medicare coverage for outpatient prescription drugs through the Medicare Part D program.
The Part D Plan program has increased the use of pharmaceuticals in the supply channel, which has a
positive impact on our revenues and profitability. There have been additional changes to the Part
D program since its enactment. Notably, the Affordable Care Act provides additional assistance to
beneficiaries who reach the Part D “coverage gap” (including a manufacturer discount program),
mandates additional medication therapy management services and reduces Part D subsidies for certain
high-income beneficiaries. CMS continues to issue regulations and other guidance to implement
these statutory changes and further refine Medicare Part D program rules. There can be no
assurances that recent and future changes to the Part D program will not have an adverse impact on
our business.


The federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare
and/or Medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. For instance,
the Budget Control Act of 2011 established a Congressional committee charged with identifying $1.5
trillion in deficit reduction provisions, which could include reductions in Medicare and/or
Medicaid spending. If legislation meeting deficit reduction targets is not adopted by January
2012, a total of $1.2 trillion in spending reductions affecting a variety of programs would
automatically go into effect in January 2013. Reductions in payments to Medicare providers under
this process would be capped at 2%, while Medicaid would be exempt from such reductions. Any
future reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates could negatively impact our customers’ businesses
and their ability to continue to purchase such drugs from us. At this time, we can provide no
assurances that future Medicare and/or Medicaid payment or policy changes, if adopted, would not
have an adverse effect on our business.



ABSG’s business may be adversely affected in the future by the impact of declining
reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and other economic factors.


ABSG sells specialty drugs directly to physicians and community oncology practices and
provides a number of services to or through physicians. Drugs that are administered in a
physician’s office, such as drugs that are infused or injected, are typically covered under
Medicare Part B. Declining reimbursement rates for Medicare Part B drugs and other economic
factors have caused a number of physician practices, including some customers, to move from private
practice to hospital settings, where they may purchase their specialty drugs under hospital prime
vendor arrangements rather than from specialty distributors like ABSG. This trend may continue due
to various factors, including legislative and regulatory requirements that affect how CMS
calculates average sales price (“ASP”) for Medicare Part B drugs. Because Medicare currently
reimburses physicians for Part B drugs at the rate of ASP plus six percent, changes in ASP have
reduced and could continue to reduce Medicare reimbursement rates for some Part B drugs. These
reductions could accelerate the trend of physician practices moving to or being acquired by
hospitals, and could also indirectly impact the prices we can charge our customers for
pharmaceuticals and result in corresponding declines in ABSG’s profitability. In addition, deficit
reduction measures pursuant to the Budget Control Act of 2011 could include reductions in Medicare
spending, such as lower reimbursement rates for Medicare Part B drugs. Any future reductions in
the rate of reimbursement for drugs covered under Medicare Part B could negatively impact our
customers’ businesses and their ability to continue to purchase such drugs from us. At this time,
we can provide no assurances that future Medicare reimbursement or policy changes, if adopted,
would not have an adverse effect on our business.



Changes to the United States healthcare environment may negatively impact our business and our
profitability.


Our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare
financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the United States. In recent years, the
healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government
spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain Medicare
funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers
and customers; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the
healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential
changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding at the state or federal level for certain
healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug
pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of our products and services they
purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. We expect continued
government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical
manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability.

 

11




Table of Contents




If we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we could
suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.


We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations
relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to strengthen its
position and scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting Medicare, Medicaid and
other government healthcare programs. Our relationships with healthcare providers and
pharmaceutical manufacturers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which,
among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any
remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or the ordering or
purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other
government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring
physicians and providers of designated health services under Medicare and Medicaid programs.
Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel
substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse, and these
enforcement authorities were further expanded by the Affordable Care Act. While we believe that we
are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, many of the regulations applicable to
us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with pharmaceutical
sales, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be
interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could
require us to make changes in our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and
regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our
ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.



The enactment of provincial legislation or regulations in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product
pricing and service fees may adversely affect our pharmaceutical distribution business in Canada,
including the profitability of that business.


Consistent with our operations in the United States, our products and services function within
the existing regulatory structure of the healthcare system in Canada. The purchase of
pharmaceutical products in Canada is funded in part by the provincial governments, which each
regulate the financing and reimbursement of drugs independently. In recent years, like the United
States, the Canadian healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce
costs and government spending. For example, in 2006, the Ontario government enacted the
Transparent Drug System for Patients Act, which significantly revised the drug distribution system
in Ontario. On July 1, 2010, the Ontario government finalized regulatory changes to reform the
rules regarding the sale of generic drugs in Ontario to reduce costs for taxpayers. These changes
include the significant lowering of prices for generic pharmaceuticals in both the public
(government-sponsored plans) and private markets and the elimination of professional allowances
paid to pharmacists. Changes in generic drug prices also affect the cash values of the percentage
mark-ups that may be charged by pharmacies. These reforms may result in lower service fees, cause
healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of products and services they purchase from
us or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. In addition, any fees based
on percentage of drug prices will be reduced by any reductions to generic drug prices themselves.
Legislation and/or regulations that may lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees are
reportedly under consideration by some other provinces as well. The legislative changes in Ontario
had an immediate impact on Quebec because it requires manufacturers to sell pharmaceuticals to
Quebec at the lowest price in Canada. The governments of Alberta and British Columbia have also
taken steps to reduce the prices for generic drugs listed on their formularies. We expect continued
government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical
manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability
in Canada. Revenue from our Canadian operations in fiscal 2011 was less than 2% of our
consolidated revenue.



Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by qui tam litigation.


Violations of various federal and state laws governing the marketing, sale and purchase of
pharmaceutical products can result in criminal, civil, and administrative liability for which there
can be significant financial damages, criminal and civil penalties, and possible exclusion from
participation in federal and state health programs. Among other things, such violations can form
the basis for qui tam complaints to be filed. The qui tam provisions of the federal and various
state civil False Claims Acts authorize a private person, known as a relator, to file civil actions
under these statutes on behalf of the federal and state governments. Under False Claims Acts, the
filing of a qui tam complaint by a relator imposes obligations on government authorities to
investigate the allegations and determine whether or not to intervene in the action. Such cases
may involve allegations around the marketing, sale and/or purchase of branded pharmaceutical
products and wrongdoing in the marketing, sale and/or purchase of such products. Such complaints
are filed under seal and remain sealed until the applicable court orders otherwise. Our business
and results of operations could be adversely affected if qui tam complaints are filed against us
for alleged violations of any health laws and regulations and damages arising from resultant false
claims, if government authorities decide to intervene in any such matters and/or we are found
liable for all or any portion of violations alleged in any such matters.

 

12




Table of Contents



On October 24, 2011, we announced that we had reached a preliminary agreement for a civil
settlement (the “Preliminary Settlement”) with the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern
District of New York, the plaintiff states and the relator (collectively, the “Plaintiffs”) of the
claims in a civil case that was filed in the United States District Court for the District of
Massachusetts (the “District of Massachusetts case”) under the qui tam provisions of the federal and various state civil False Claims Acts
against two business units of the Company, which are subsidiaries of AmerisourceBergen Specialty
Group: International Nephrology Network (“INN”), a group purchasing organization for nephrologists
and nephrology practices, and ASD Specialty Healthcare, Inc. (“ASD”), which is a distributor of
pharmaceuticals to physician practices. The relator was a former
employee of Amgen, Inc., which was
also a defendant in the case. The civil case was administratively closed after the Preliminary
Settlement was reached. The Preliminary Settlement is subject to completion and approval of an
executed written settlement agreement with the Plaintiffs, which we expect to finalize in fiscal
year 2012. We do not expect INN or ASD to admit any liability in connection with the settlement.
We recorded a $16 million charge in fiscal 2011 in connection with the Preliminary Settlement. The
matter is described in Note 12 (Legal Matters and Contingencies) of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


In addition, we have learned that there are prior and subsequent filings in one or more
federal district courts, including a complaint filed by one of our former employees, that are under
seal and involve allegations against the Company (and/or subsidiaries or businesses of the Company,
including our group purchasing organization for oncologists and our oncology distribution business)
similar to those raised in the District of Massachusetts case. The
Preliminary Settlement encompasses resolution of one of these other filings. With regard to any of these
filings not encompassed by the Preliminary Settlement, our business and results of operations could
be adversely affected if government authorities decide to intervene in any such pending cases
and/or we are found liable for all or any portion of violations alleged in any such pending cases.



Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake
acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to
integrate.


We expect to continue to implement our growth strategy, in part, by acquiring companies. At
any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with
regard to one or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. We make public
disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable
securities laws and regulations.


Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties. If we complete one or more
acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a
number of factors, including: the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have
projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities; the fair value of
assets acquired and liabilities assumed are not properly estimated; the difficulties of imposing
adequate financial and operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the
potential liabilities that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the
difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the
acquired companies; and the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions.



Our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by foreign
operations.


We have pharmaceutical distribution operations based in Canada and provide contract packaging
and clinical trials materials services in the United Kingdom. We may consider additional foreign
acquisitions in the future. Our existing foreign operations and any operations we may acquire in
the future carry risks in addition to the risks of acquisition, as described above. At any
particular time, foreign operations may encounter risks and uncertainties regarding the
governmental, political, economic, business and competitive environment within the countries in
which those operations are based. Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency
fluctuations that could impact our results of operations and financial condition based on the
movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar.



Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our
business and results of operations.


Our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze,
and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from
numerous distribution centers; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to account
for other product and service transactions with customers; to manage the accurate billing and
collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Our business and
results of operations may be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted or damaged by
unforeseen events or if they fail for any extended period of time, including due to the actions of
third parties.


Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the
proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators
of cyber attacks. A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or
those of our third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or information security
breaches could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary
information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses. As a result, cyber
security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to
protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized
access remain a priority for us. Although we believe that we have robust information security
procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required
to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to
investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.

 

13




Table of Contents



Third party service providers are responsible for managing a significant portion of our
information systems. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if the third
party service provider does not perform satisfactorily.


Certain of our businesses continue to make substantial investments in information systems. To
the extent the implementation of these systems fail, our business and results of operations may be
adversely affected.



Risks generally associated with implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system may
adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting.


We have begun to implement an ERP system, which, when completed, will handle the business and
financial processes within ABDC’s operations and our corporate and administrative functions, such
as: (i) facilitating the purchase and distribution of inventory items from our distribution
centers; (ii) receiving, processing, and shipping orders on a timely basis, (iii) managing the
accuracy of billings and collections for our customers; (iv) processing payments to our suppliers;
and (v) generating financial transactions and information. ERP implementations are complex and
time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation
activities that can continue for several years. ERP implementations also require transformation of
business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Our business and
results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems and/or cost
overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system, and the associated process
changes, do not give rise to the benefits that we expect.


Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the ERP system as planned or if the system
does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect our financial reporting systems, our
ability to produce financial reports, and/or the effectiveness of our internal controls over
financial reporting.



Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results
of operations and financial condition.


We are a large corporation with operations in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and the
United Kingdom. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the United States federal,
state and local governments and of certain foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various
legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our
tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be
adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as
well as foreign, tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying
interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by
relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.



 

14




Table of Contents












    
    
    


    ITEM 1B