ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

         The following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our business and prospects. These risk factors are
in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this report. 

    
Competition and industry consolidation may erode our profit.  

         The industries in which we operate, including distribution of human and animal health pharmaceuticals and related healthcare solutions,
are highly competitive. Our distribution competitors include two national wholesale distributors of pharmaceuticals, McKesson and Cardinal; regional and local distributors of
pharmaceuticals; national generic distributors; chain drugstores that warehouse their own pharmaceuticals; manufacturers that distribute their products directly to customers; and national, regional,
local and specialty distributors. Our other competitors include logistics, re-packaging and healthcare technology companies, and producers of compounded sterile preparations (see "Competition" on
page 6). If we do not compete successfully against these and other organizations, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, in recent
years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation. If this trend continues among our customers, suppliers, and competitors, it could give the resulting enterprises greater
bargaining power, which may lead to greater pressure to reduce prices for our products and services. 

    
Our results of operations are impacted by prices set by manufacturers and the profitability of future generic pharmaceutical launches.  

         Certain distribution service agreements that we have entered into with branded and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers continue to have
an inflation-based compensation component to them. As a result, our gross profit from brand-name and generic manufacturers continues to be subject to fluctuation based upon the timing and extent of
manufacturer price increases, which we do not control. If the frequency or rate of branded and generic pharmaceutical price increases slows, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In
addition, generic pharmaceuticals are also subject to price deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, our results of operations could be adversely
affected. A decline in the number of generic pharmaceutical launches, or launches that are less profitable than those in the past, could also adversely impact our results of operations. 


    
Declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

         Our operations and performance depend on economic conditions in the United States and other countries where we do business.
Deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products purchased by consumers and, therefore, reduce
purchases by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. Negative trends in the general economy, including interest rate fluctuations,
financial market volatility or credit market disruptions, may also affect our customers' ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms and reduce discretionary spending on
health products. Reduced purchases by our customers or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our cash flow from operations. Bankruptcies or similar
events affecting our customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Declining economic conditions may also increase our costs. If the economic
conditions in the United States or in the countries where we do business do not improve or deteriorate, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. 

    
Our stock price and our ability to access credit markets may be adversely affected by financial market volatility and disruption.  


         If the capital and credit markets experience significant disruption and volatility in the future, there can be no assurance that we will
not experience downward movement in our stock price without regard to our financial condition or results of operations or an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access credit.
Although we believe that our operating cash flow and existing credit arrangements give us the ability to meet our financing needs, there can be no assurance that disruption and volatility will not
increase our costs of borrowing, impair our liquidity, or adversely impact our business. 

    
Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a significant supplier.  


         Our relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers, including generic pharmaceutical manufacturers, give rise to substantial amounts that
are due to us from the suppliers, including amounts owed to us for returned goods or defective goods, chargebacks, and amounts due to us for services provided to the suppliers. Volatility of the
capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory changes may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our suppliers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit
failure of any supplier at a time when the supplier has a substantial account payable balance due to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

9




 

Table of Contents

    
Our revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of a significant customer.  

         Most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit. Credit is made available to customers based
on our assessment and analysis of creditworthiness. Although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to protect our credit exposure, we generally are
either subordinated to the position of the primary lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. Volatility of the capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory
changes, including changes in reimbursement, may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our customers. The bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of any customer that has a
substantial amount owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenue and results of operations. At September 30, 2015, our two largest trade receivable balances due from
customers represented approximately 40% and 10% of accounts receivable, net. 

    
Our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows may suffer upon the loss of a significant customer.  

         WBA accounted for 30% of our revenue in fiscal 2015. Express Scripts accounted for 16% of our revenue in fiscal 2015. Our top ten
customers, including governmental agencies and group purchasing organizations ("GPOs"), represented approximately 64% of fiscal 2015 revenue. We may lose a significant customer or GPO
relationship if any existing contract with such customer or GPO expires without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is terminated by the customer or GPO prior to
expiration, to the extent such early termination is permitted by the contract. A number of our contracts with significant customers or GPOs are typically subject to expiration each year and we
may lose any of these customers or GPO relationships if we are unable to extend, renew, renegotiate or replace the contracts. The loss of any significant customer or GPO relationship
could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. 

    
If WBA exercises its rights to purchase our common stock pursuant to the warrants that we issued to them, the future issuances of shares of our common stock upon exercise of
the warrants could dilute the ownership interests of our then-existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  


         In connection with our strategic relationship with WBA, we entered into a Framework Agreement with affiliates of WBA, dated as of
March 18, 2013 (the "Framework Agreement"), pursuant to which (i) subsidiaries of WBA were granted the right to purchase a minority equity position in AmerisourceBergen, beginning with
the right, but not the obligation, to purchase up to 19,859,795 shares of our common stock (approximately 7% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis as of the date of issuance, assuming the
exercise in full of the Warrants described below) in open market transactions, with the right to designate up to two members of our board of directors upon achieving specified ownership levels;
(ii) Walgreens Pharmacy Strategies, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of WBA, was issued (a) a warrant to purchase up to 11,348,456 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of
$51.50 per share exercisable during a six-month period beginning in March 2016, and (b) a warrant to purchase up to 11,348,456 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $52.50 per
share exercisable during a six-month period beginning in March 2017; and (iii) Alliance Boots Luxembourg S.à.r.l., also a wholly owned subsidiary of WBA, was issued (a) a
warrant to purchase up to 11,348,456 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $51.50 per share exercisable during a six-month period beginning in March 2016 and (b) a warrant to
purchase up to 11,348,456 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $52.50 per share exercisable during a six-month period beginning in March 2017 (collectively, the "Warrants"). The Warrants
collectively represent approximately 16% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis as of the date of issuance, assuming exercise in full of the Warrants. The number of shares which may be purchased
in the open market is subject to increase in certain circumstances if the market price of our common stock is less than the exercise price of the first tranche of Warrants when those Warrants are
exercisable in 2016. In such event, the incremental number of shares purchased in the open market would reduce share-for-share the number of shares exercisable pursuant to the first tranche of
Warrants. 

         Future
issuances of shares of our common stock upon exercise of the Warrants will dilute the ownership interests of our then-existing stockholders. In addition, the dilutive effect of
the Warrants will be reflected in our diluted earnings per share during the period that the Warrants are outstanding. A decrease in our diluted earnings per share could, in turn, adversely affect the
market value of our common stock. In addition, any sales in the public market of any common stock acquired pursuant to open market purchases by WBA or issuable upon the exercise of the Warrants could
adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations for steps taken to mitigate the potentially dilutive effect that the exercise of the Warrants could have on our then existing shareholders. 

    
A disruption in our distribution arrangement with WBA could adversely affect our business and financial results.  

         In March 2013, we entered into a ten-year distribution agreement with WBA to act as its primary wholesale distribution source for
Walgreens' pharmacies in the United States with respect to branded and generic prescription drugs. We are the primary distributor of branded and generic pharmaceuticals for WBA. If the operations of
WBA are seriously 

10




 

Table of Contents

disrupted
for any reason, whether by natural disaster, labor disruption, regulatory or governmental action, or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business and our sales and profitability. If our
operations are seriously disrupted for any reason, we may have an obligation to pay or credit WBA for failure to supply products. In addition, upon the
expiration or termination of the agreement, there can be no assurance that we or WBA will be willing to renew the agreement or enter into a new agreement, on terms favorable to us or at all. 

         In
addition, our business may be adversely affected by any operational, financial or regulatory difficulties that WBA experiences, including any disruptions of certain of its existing
distribution facilities or retail pharmacies resulting from ongoing inspections by the DEA and/or state regulatory agencies and possible revocation of the controlled substance registrations for those
facilities and pharmacies. 

    
The anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with WBA may not be realized.  

         We entered into the arrangement with WBA with the expectation that the transactions contemplated thereby would result in various
benefits including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies, innovation and sharing of best practices. The processes and initiatives needed to achieve these potential benefits are
complex, costly and time-consuming. Many of the anticipated benefits and expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. Achieving the
anticipated benefits from the arrangement is subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including: the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations, processes or
initiatives, or the inability to realize and/or delays in realizing potential benefits, including improved generic drug pricing and terms, improved service fees from generic manufacturers, cost
savings, innovations, or other benefits resulting from participation in our global sourcing arrangement with WBAD, due to its inability to negotiate successfully with generic manufacturers or
otherwise to perform as expected; the potential disruption of our plans and operations as a result of this strategic arrangement, including any disruption of our cash flow and ability to return value
to our stockholders in accordance with our past practices and any reduction in our operational, strategic or financial flexibility; the potential changes in supplier and customer relationships and
terms; unexpected or unforeseen costs, fees, expenses and charges incurred by us related to the transaction or the overall strategic relationship; and whether the unique corporate cultures of separate
organizations will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner. 

         In
addition, WBA has the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the Framework and Shareholder Agreements to invest in our common stock. We could also
encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances, or issues existing or arising with respect to the transactions and collaboration we anticipate resulting from the Framework and Shareholder Agreements. Many
of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased benefits and the diversion of management time and attention.
If we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which
could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the price of our common stock. 

    
Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel and pharmaceutical compounding may increase our costs and reduce our profitability.  

         The healthcare industry in the United States is highly regulated at the federal and state levels. There have been increasing efforts by
Congress and state and federal agencies, including state boards of pharmacy and departments of health and the FDA, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system and pharmacy compounding
activities. Regulation of pharmaceutical distribution is intended to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated, and/or mislabeled drugs into the pharmaceutical distribution system.
Consequently, we are subject to the risk of changes in various federal and state laws, which include operating and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy and
comparable agencies. 

         In
recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that are intended to protect the safety of the supply channel but that also may
substantially increase the costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution and pharmaceutical compounding. For example, there are new and significantly elevated state regulatory requirements designed
to increase the quality and raise the oversight of hospital pharmacies and other producers of compounded sterile preparations ("CSPs"). 

11




 

Table of Contents


         At
the federal level, final regulations issued pursuant to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act impose pedigree tracking and other chain of custody requirements that increase the costs
and/or burden to us of selling to other pharmaceutical distributors and handling product returns. In addition, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards and identify and
validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include track-and-trace and/or authentication technologies
that leverage data carriers applied by the manufacturer to the sellable units and cases. The FDA is also required to develop a standardized numerical identifier ("SNI"). In March 2010, the FDA issued
guidance regarding the development of SNIs for prescription drug packages in which the FDA identified package-level SNIs, as an initial step in the FDA's development of additional measures to secure
the drug supply chain. In November 2013, Congress passed the Drug Quality and Security Act ("DQSA"). The DQSA establishes federal pedigree tracking standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked
at the lot level, preempts state drug pedigree requirements, and will eventually require all supply-chain stakeholders to participate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug track and trace
system. The DSQA also establishes new requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third party logistics providers, including licensing requirements in states that had not previously licensed such
entities. 

         The
DQSA also establishes new requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third party logistics providers, and calls for enhanced regulation of CSPs, including heightened
compliance, reporting, labeling and inspection standards. One change resulting from the DQSA is the creation of Section 503B outsourcing facilities as a new category for providers of CSPs,
allowing such facilities to voluntarily register with the FDA. Our CSP business locations have registered with the FDA as Section 503B outsourcing facilities and have implemented policies and
procedures to achieve compliance with the DQSA requirements for such facilities. However, there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with the new requirements, and any failure to comply may
result in additional costs to bring our CSP facilities into compliance. Moreover, the FDA continues to issue draft and final guidance under the DQSA, including those relating to current good
manufacturing practices, which may require changes to our CSP business, some of which may be significant. Complying with these and other supply chain of custody and pharmaceutical compounding
requirements will increase our costs and could otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. 

    
The suspension or revocation by federal or state authorities of any of the registrations that must be in effect for our distribution and compounding facilities to purchase,
store and distribute pharmaceuticals and controlled substances or the refusal by such authorities to issue a registration to any such facility may adversely affect our reputation, our business and our
results of operations.  

         The DEA, FDA, and various other federal and state regulatory authorities regulate the distribution of pharmaceuticals and controlled
substances and the compounding of pharmaceuticals that contain controlled substances. We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and
comply with the Controlled Substances Act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, compounding, holding and distribution of controlled substances. Government
authorities may from time to time investigate whether we are in compliance with various security and operating standards applicable to the distribution of controlled substances including whether we
are adequately detecting and preventing the illegal diversion of controlled substances. We have received, and may in the future receive, requests for information, letters and subpoenas from the DEA,
FDA, various United States Attorneys' Offices of the United States Department of
Justice, and/or state regulatory agencies related to our distribution of controlled substances, our order monitoring program, which is designed to prevent and detect the illegal diversion of
controlled substances, or other matters. 

         The
FDA and other governmental entities enforce compliance with applicable cGMP requirements and sterile product requirements under applicable state law through periodic risk-based
inspections. It is common for FDA Form 483 reports to be provided in connection with inspections of compounding outsourcing facilities, and FDA observations may be further followed by Warning
Letters and other enforcement actions as the FDA deems warranted. For example, prior to our acquisition of the business, PharMEDium received a Warning Letter from the FDA in 2014 following the
inspection of PharMEDium's Mississippi, New Jersey, Tennessee and Texas outsourcing facilities in 2013. The FDA reinspected these facilities in 2015. 

         We
generally respond to such subpoenas, requests and letters in a thorough and timely manner. These responses require time and effort and can result in considerable costs being incurred
by the Company. Such subpoenas, requests and letters can also lead to the assertion of claims or the commencement of civil, criminal, or regulatory legal proceedings against the Company, as well as to
settlements, which can be material. 

12




 

Table of Contents

         The
DEA, FDA and other federal and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including (i) the ability to suspend our distribution centers' and outsourcing
facilities' licenses to distribute and compound pharmaceutical products (including controlled substances), (ii) seize or recall products and (iii) impose significant criminal, civil and
administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. Although we have procedures intended to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would
conclude that our operations are compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and any non-compliance could lead to litigation and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. With
respect to the FDA Warning Letter issued to PharMEDium in 2014, we cannot be assured that the FDA will be satisfied with the sufficiency or timing of PharMEDium's corrective actions, and, as such, we
cannot predict when or if the FDA will consider the matters described in the 2014 Warning Letter or any matters raised during 2015 onsite inspections to have been fully resolved. 

    
Legal, regulatory and legislative changes may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

         Both our business and our customers' businesses may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for
pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. Additionally, on occasion, price increases on certain branded and
generic pharmaceuticals have been the subject of U.S. Congressional inquiries. Any regulation impacting pharmaceutical pricing could adversely affect our operations. 


         Federal
insurance and health care reform legislation known as the Affordable Care Act became law in March 2010. The Affordable Care Act is intended to expand health insurance coverage,
including coverage for at least a portion of drug costs through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of Medicaid, subsidies and health insurance mandates. The Affordable Care Act
contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and reduce the costs of Medicare and Medicaid. While certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act
took effect immediately, others will be implemented over time. Given the scope of the changes made by the Affordable Care Act and the ongoing implementation efforts, we cannot predict the impact of
every aspect of the new law on our operations. 

         The
Affordable Care Act changed the formula for Medicaid federal upper limits for multiple source drugs available for purchase by retail community pharmacies on a nationwide basis to a
limit of not less than 175% of the weighted average manufacturer price ("AMP"). While the draft federal upper limit prices and methodology released to date would represent a significant reduction from
the federal upper limits currently in place, the impact of the changes cannot be determined until CMS's methodology is finalized, and may also depend upon how the changes are implemented by each state
Medicaid program. Any reduction in the Medicaid reimbursement rates to our customers for certain multisource pharmaceuticals may indirectly impact the prices that we can charge our customers for
multisource pharmaceuticals and cause corresponding declines in our profitability. 

         The
Affordable Care Act also amends the Medicaid rebate statute to increase minimum Medicaid rebates paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers and makes other changes expected to result in
increased Medicaid rebate payments by pharmaceutical manufacturers, which could indirectly impact our business. CMS issued proposed regulations to implement the Affordable Care Act's provisions
regarding Medicaid rebates and Medicaid reimbursement to pharmacies, but the regulations have not been finalized to date. The federal government and state governments could take other actions in the
future that impact Medicaid reimbursement and rebate amounts. For example, a number of states have announced plans to use average acquisition cost to reimburse pharmacies for the cost of drugs. CMS
also has been conducting a national survey of pharmacies to create a national database of average actual pharmacy acquisition costs, the results of which states may use to determine state-specific
pharmaceutical reimbursement rates. 

         There
can be no assurance that recent or future changes in Medicaid prescription drug reimbursement policies will not have an adverse impact on our business. Unless we are able to
develop plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative and regulatory changes, these changes in reimbursement and related reporting requirements could adversely affect our results of
operations. 

         The
Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 significantly expanded Medicare coverage for outpatient prescription drugs through the Medicare Part D
program. The Part D program has increased the use of pharmaceuticals in the supply channel, which has had a positive impact on our revenues and profitability. There have been additional
legislative and regulatory changes to the Part D program since its enactment. There can be no assurances that recent and future changes to the Part D program will not have an adverse
impact on our business. 

13




 

Table of Contents

         The
federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare and/or Medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. For
instance, under the "sequestration" provision of the Budget Control Act of 2011, a 2% cut is being made to Medicare provider and plan payments, generally effective for services provided on or after
April 1, 2013. Any future reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase such drugs from us. At this
time, we can provide no assurances that future Medicare and/or Medicaid payment or policy changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business. 

    
ABSG's business may be adversely affected in the future by the impact of declining reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and other economic factors.  

         ABSG sells specialty drugs directly to physicians and community oncology practices and provides a number of services to or through
physicians. Drugs that are administered in a physician's office, such as drugs that are infused or injected, are typically covered under Medicare Part B. Declining reimbursement rates for
Medicare Part B drugs and other economic factors have caused a number of physician practices, including some of our customers, to move from private practice to hospital settings, where they may
purchase their specialty drugs under hospital prime vendor arrangements rather than from specialty distributors like ABSG. Although this trend has slowed down in the past year, it could increase in
the future due to various factors, including legislative and regulatory requirements that affect how CMS calculates average sales price for Medicare Part B drugs, as well as the ability of
certain hospitals to purchase drugs at significant, statutorily-mandated discounts pursuant to the federal 340B drug discount program. In addition, federal changes in drug reimbursement policy could
reduce the rate of reimbursement for drugs covered under Medicare Part B or physician services under Medicare, which could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to
continue to purchase such drugs from us, and thereby result in corresponding declines in ABSG's profitability. At this time, we can provide no assurances that future Medicare reimbursement or policy
changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business. 

    
Changes to the United States healthcare environment may negatively impact our business and our profitability.  

         Our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently
existing in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased
reliance on managed care; cuts in certain Medicare funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; and the development of large,
sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding at
the state or federal level for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, pharmaceutical compounding, healthcare services or
mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. We
expect continued government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our
profitability. 

    
If we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our
operations.  

         We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The
federal government continues to strengthen its scrutiny of practices potentially involving healthcare fraud affecting Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our relationships
with healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting,
offering, receiving
or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or the ordering or purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other
government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under Medicare and Medicaid programs.
Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse, and these
enforcement authorities were further expanded by the Affordable Care Act. While we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, many of the regulations applicable to us,
including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with pharmaceutical sales, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or
applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be
subject to civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. 

14




 

Table of Contents

    
Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by qui tam litigation.  

         Violations of various federal and state laws governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products can result in
criminal, civil, and administrative liability for which there can be significant financial damages, criminal and civil penalties, and possible exclusion from participation in federal and state health
programs. Among other things, such violations can form the basis for qui tam complaints to be filed. The qui tam provisions of the federal and various state civil False Claims Acts authorize a private
person, known as a relator, to file civil actions under these statutes on behalf of the federal and state governments. Under False Claims Acts, the filing of a qui tam complaint by a relator imposes
obligations on government authorities to investigate the allegations and determine whether or not to intervene in the action. Such cases may involve allegations around the marketing, sale, purchase,
and/or dispensing of branded and/or generic pharmaceutical products and wrongdoing in the marketing, sale, purchase and/or dispensing of such products. Such complaints are filed under seal and remain
sealed until the applicable court orders otherwise. 

         The
Company has learned that there are filings in one or more federal district courts, including a qui tam complaint filed by one of our former employees, that are under seal and may
involve allegations against the Company (and/or subsidiaries or businesses of the Company, including our group purchasing organization for oncologists and our oncology distribution business) relating
to its distribution of certain pharmaceutical products to providers. With regard to any of these filings, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if qui tam complaints are
filed against us for alleged violations of any health laws and regulations and damages arising from resultant false claims, if government authorities decide to intervene in any such matters and/or if
we are found liable for all or any portion of violations alleged in any such matters. 

    
Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult
for us to integrate.  

         As part of our strategy we have recently completed, and expect to continue to pursue, acquisitions of other companies. At any particular
time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. We make public disclosure of
pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable securities laws and regulations. 

         Acquisitions
involve numerous risks and uncertainties and may be of businesses in which we lack operational experience. If we complete one or more acquisitions, our results of operations
and financial condition may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in regulations and laws; the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have projected in
either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities, including litigation risks; the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed not being properly estimated; the
difficulties of imposing adequate financial and operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities that might arise pending the imposition of adequate
controls; the difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these
acquisitions. 

    
Our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by our global operations.  

         Our operations in jurisdictions outside of the United States are subject to various risks inherent in global operations. We currently
have operations in over 50 countries worldwide. We may conduct business in additional foreign jurisdictions in the future, which may carry operational risks in addition to the risks of acquisition
described above. At any particular time, our global operations may be affected by local changes in laws, regulations, and the political and economic environments, including inflation, recession,
currency volatility, and competition. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. 

    
Violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption and/or international trade laws to which we are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position,
and results of operations.  

         We are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. For
example, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"), U.S. export control and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign
countries, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. The FCPA generally prohibits U.S. companies
and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining
favorable treatment. The FCPA also requires that U.S. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting
controls. If we are found to have violated the FCPA, we may face sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension 

15




 

Table of Contents

or
debarment of our ability to contract with government agencies or receive export licenses. From time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government
agencies relating to our international business activities, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. An
adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. 

    
Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

         Our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the purchase
and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to account for other product and service transactions with
customers; to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Certain of our businesses continue to make substantial investments in
information systems, and third party service providers are also responsible for managing a significant portion of our information systems. To the extent our information systems are not successfully
implemented or fail, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our business and results of operations may also be adversely affected if a third party service provider does not
perform satisfactorily, or if the information systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events, including due to the actions of third parties. 


         Information
security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of
cyber attacks. A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or information security breaches
could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information or personal data, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses. As a result,
cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized
access remain a priority for us. Although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to
expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. 

    
Risks generally associated with data privacy regulation and the international transfer of personal data.  

         We are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy regulations both in the United States and beyond that
regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data, including particularly the transfer of personal data between or among countries. Many of these foreign data privacy regulations are more
stringent than those in the United States. We may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. An
adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties. That or other circumstances related to our collection, use and transfer of personal data could cause
a loss of reputation in the market and/or adversely affect our business and financial position. 

    
Tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  


         We are a large corporation with operations in the United States and select global markets. As such, we are subject to tax laws and
regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of various foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives, such as the repeal of last-in, first-out
("LIFO"), treatment, may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be
adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. We believe that our historical tax positions are consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and existing precedent. In addition,
United States federal, state and local, as well as foreign, tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions
will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. 

    
Natural disasters or other unexpected events may disrupt our operations, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may not be covered by
insurance.  

         The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms
of severe weather in the U.S. or in other countries in which we operate or are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Natural disasters, power outages or other
unexpected events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of distribution centers or outsourcing facilities, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply
of products, delay in the delivery of products to our distribution centers and/or disruption of our ability to deliver products to customers. Existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection
for the costs that may arise from such events, particularly if such events are catastrophic in nature or occur in 

16




 

Table of Contents

combination.
Any long-term disruption in our ability to service our customers from one or more distribution centers or outsourcing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 

    
Our goodwill or intangible assets may become impaired, which would require us to record a significant charge to earnings in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.  

         U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") require us to test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for
impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators for potential impairment exist. Indicators that are considered include significant changes in performance relative to expected operating
results, significant negative industry or economic trends or a significant decline in the Company's stock price and/or market capitalization for a sustained period of time. In addition, we
periodically review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in
circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rates, the loss of a significant customer, or divestiture of a business or asset
for below its carrying value. The testing required by GAAP involves estimates and judgments by management. Although we believe our assumptions and estimates are reasonable and appropriate, any changes
in key assumptions, including a failure to meet business plans or other unanticipated events and circumstances such as a rise in interest rates, may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates.
We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined. Any
such charge could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 


    
The products compounded by our CSP business are administered by our customers to patients intravenously, and failures or errors in production, labeling or packaging could
contribute to patient harm or death, which may subject us to significant liabilities and reputational harm.  

         The production, labeling and packaging of CSPs is inherently risky. Our CSP business sells CSPs to acute care hospitals, freestanding
hospital outpatient departments and ambulatory surgery centers, who then administer the CSPs to patients intravenously or through other injectable routes of administration. There are a number of
factors that could result in the injury or death of a patient who receives one of our CSPs, including quality issues, manufacturing or labeling flaws, improper packaging or unanticipated or improper
uses of the products, any of which could result from human or other error. Any of these situations could lead to a recall of, or safety alert relating
to, one or more of our products. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we may voluntarily retrieve products. Any retrieval or recall, whether voluntary or requested by the FDA or state
regulatory authorities, could result in significant costs and negative publicity. Negative publicity, including regarding a quality or safety issue, whether accurate or inaccurate, could reduce market
acceptance of our products, harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, result in the loss of customers, lead to product withdrawals and harm our ability to successfully launch new products
and services. These problems could also result in enforcement actions by state and federal authorities or other healthcare self-regulatory bodies, or product liability claims or lawsuits, including
those brought by individuals or groups seeking to represent a class or establish multidistrict litigation proceedings. Any such action, litigation, recall or reputational harm, even recalls or
negative publicity resulting from patient harm or death caused by CSPs prepared by a competitor or a hospital pharmacy, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our current or future insurance coverage may prove insufficient to cover any liability claims brought against us. Because of the increasing cost of
insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. 


<A
NAME="dc43801_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B