ITEM 1A.
     
    RISK FACTORS




The following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our
business and prospects. These risks factors are in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this
report.


Intense competition as well as industry consolidations may erode our profit margins.


The distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare solutions is highly competitive. We
compete with two national wholesale distributors of pharmaceuticals, Cardinal and McKesson;
national generic distributors; regional and local distributors of pharmaceuticals; chain drugstores
that warehouse their own pharmaceuticals; manufacturers that distribute their products directly to
customers; specialty distributors; and packaging and healthcare technology companies (see
“Competition”). If we were forced by competition to reduce our prices or offer more favorable
payment or other terms, our results of operations or liquidity could be adversely affected. In
addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation. If
this trend continues among our customers and suppliers, it could give the resulting enterprises
greater bargaining power, which may lead to greater pressure to reduce prices for our products and
services.


Our results of operations continue to be subject to the risks and uncertainties of inflation
in branded pharmaceutical prices and deflation in generic pharmaceutical prices.


Certain distribution service agreements that we have entered into with branded pharmaceutical
manufacturers continue to have an inflation-based compensation component to them. Arrangements with
a small number of branded manufacturers continue to be solely inflation-based. As a result,
approximately 10% to 15% of our gross profit from brand-name manufacturers continues to be subject
to fluctuation based upon the timing and extent of price appreciation. If the frequency or rate of
branded pharmaceutical price inflation slows, our results of operations could be adversely
affected. In addition, we distribute generic pharmaceuticals, which are subject to price deflation.
If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, our results of
operations could be adversely affected.


Declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition.


Our operations and performance depend on economic conditions in the United States and other
countries where we do business. Deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect
the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products purchased by
consumers and, therefore, reduce purchases by our customers, which would negatively affect our
revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. Interest rate fluctuations, financial
market volatility or credit market disruptions may also negatively affect our customers’ ability to
obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms. Reduced purchases by our customers
or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our
cash flow from operations. Bankruptcies or similar events affecting our customers may cause us to
incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Declining economic
conditions may also increase our costs. If the economic conditions in the United States or in the
regions outside the United States where we do business do not improve or deteriorate, our results
of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected.


Our stock price and our ability to access credit markets may be adversely affected by
financial market volatility and disruption.


The capital and credit markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption,
particularly in the latter half of 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009. In some cases, the
markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers
without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If the markets return to the
levels of disruption and volatility experienced in the latter half of 2008 and the first quarter of
2009, there can be no assurance that we will not experience downward movement in our stock price
without regard to our financial condition or results of operations or an adverse effect, which may
be material, on our ability to access credit generally, and on our business, liquidity, financial
condition and results of operations.


Our receivables securitization facility expires in 2010. While we did not have any borrowings
outstanding under this facility as of September 30, 2009, we have historically utilized amounts
available to us under this facility, from time to time, to meet our business needs. In fiscal 2010,
we will seek to renew this facility at available market rates, which may be higher than the
interest rates currently available to us. While we believe we will be able to renew this facility,
there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so.

 

8




Table of Contents



Our total revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the loss of a significant
customer.


Our largest customer, Medco Health Solutions, Inc., accounted for 17% of our total revenue in
fiscal 2009. Our top ten customers represented approximately 41% of fiscal 2009 total revenue. We
also have contracts with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), each of which functions as a
purchasing agent on behalf of its members, who are hospitals, pharmacies or other healthcare
providers. Approximately 10% of our total revenue in fiscal 2009 was derived from our three largest
GPO relationships. We may lose a significant customer or GPO relationship if any existing contract
with such customer or GPO expires without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is
terminated by the customer or GPO prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is
permitted by the contract. A number of our contracts with significant customers or GPOs are
typically subject to expiration each year and we may lose any of these customers or GPO
relationships if we are unable to extend, renew, renegotiate or replace the contracts. The loss of
any significant customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect our total revenue and results
of operations.


Our total revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or
other credit failure of a significant customer.


Most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit.
Credit is made available to customers based on our assessment and analysis of creditworthiness.
Although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to
protect our credit exposure, we generally are either subordinated to the position of the primary
lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. Volatility of the capital and credit markets
and general economic conditions may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our
customers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any customer that has a
substantial amount owed to us could have a material adverse affect on our operating revenue and
results of operations. At September 30, 2009, the largest trade receivable balance due from a
single customer, which was our largest customer, represented approximately 9% of accounts
receivable, net.


Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit
failure of a significant supplier.


Our relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers give rise to substantial amounts that are due
to us from the suppliers, including amounts owed to us for returned goods or defective goods,
chargebacks, and amounts due to us for services provided to the suppliers. Volatility of the
capital and credit markets and general economic conditions may adversely affect the solvency or
creditworthiness of our suppliers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any
supplier at a time when the supplier has a substantial account payable balance due to us could have
a material adverse affect on our results of operations.


Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel may increase our
costs and reduce our profitability.


The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the federal and state level. Consequently, we
are subject to the risk of changes in various federal and state laws, which include operating and
security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies.
In recent years, some states have passed or have proposed laws and regulations, including laws and
regulations obligating pharmaceutical distributors to provide prescription drug pedigrees, that are
intended to protect the safety of the supply channel but that also may substantially increase the
costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution. For example, the Florida Prescription Drug
Pedigree laws and regulations that became effective in July 2006 imposed obligations upon us to
deliver prescription drug pedigrees to various categories of customers. In order to comply with the
Florida requirements, we implemented an e-pedigree system at our distribution center in Florida
that required significant capital outlays. Other states have adopted laws and regulations that
would require us to implement pedigree capabilities in those other states similar to the pedigree
capabilities implemented for Florida. For example, California has enacted a law requiring the
implementation of costly track and trace chain of custody technologies, such as radio frequency
identification device (“RFID”) technologies, although the effective date of the law has been
postponed until January 1, 2015 for pharmaceutical manufacturers and until July 1, 2016 for
pharmaceutical wholesalers and repackagers. At the federal level, the FDA issued final regulations
pursuant to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act that became effective in December 2006. The
regulations impose pedigree and other chain of custody requirements that increase the costs and/or
burden to us of selling to other pharmaceutical distributors and handling product returns. In
December 2006, the federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York issued a preliminary
injunction temporarily enjoining the implementation of certain provisions of the regulations in
response to a case initiated by secondary distributors. The federal Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit affirmed this injunction on July 10, 2008. On December 18, 2008, the parties filed a joint
motion to stay discovery based upon a bill pending in Congress that, if passed, would render the issues
in the case moot. The parties also agreed to an administrative closing of the file until at least
December 31, 2009. Either party may re-open the file prior to that date. We cannot predict the
ultimate outcome of this legal proceeding or related legislation pending in Congress.


In addition, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards and
identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply
chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include track-and-trace or authentication
technologies, such as RFID devices and other technologies. The 2007
Act requires the FDA to develop a standardized
numerical identifier by April 1, 2010. The increased costs of complying with these pedigree and
other supply chain custody requirements could increase our costs or otherwise significantly affect
our results of operations.

 

9




Table of Contents



The suspension or revocation by the DEA of any of the registrations that must be in effect for
our distribution facilities to purchase, store and distribute controlled substances or the refusal
by DEA to issue a registration to any such facility that requires such registration may adversely
affect our reputation, our business and our results of operations.


The DEA, FDA and various state regulatory authorities regulate the distribution of
pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level
licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the Controlled Substance
Act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding and
distribution of controlled substances. The DEA, FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad
enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our distribution centers’ licenses to
distribute pharmaceutical products (including controlled substances), seize or recall products and
impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and
regulations.


In 2007, our Orlando, Florida distribution center’s license to distribute controlled
substances and listed chemicals was suspended for an alleged lack of maintaining effective controls
against diversion of controlled substances. Under an agreement with the DEA, our distribution
center had its license reinstated when we implemented an enhanced and more sophisticated
order-monitoring program in all of our ABDC distribution centers. In addition, in June 2007, one of
our subsidiaries, Bellco Drug Corp., entered into a consent judgment with the DEA following the
suspension of Bellco Drug’s DEA license in May 2007 prior to our acquisition of the business. The
DEA had alleged that Bellco Drug had failed to maintain effective controls against the diversion of
controlled substances as required by federal law. In the consent judgment, Bellco Drug voluntarily
surrendered its DEA registration with leave to apply for a new registration. Bellco Drug received
its new DEA registration on February 12, 2008 and resumed distribution of controlled substances.
While we expect to continue to comply with all of the DEA’s requirements, there can be no assurance
that the DEA will not require further controls against the diversion of controlled substances in
the future or will not take similar action against any other of our distribution centers in the
future.


Legal, regulatory and legislative changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals
and/or medical treatments or services may adversely affect our
business and results of operations.


Both
our business and the businesses of our customers may be adversely affected
by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments
or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined.


Effective January 1, 2007, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) changed the federal upper
payment limit for Medicaid reimbursement from 150% of the lowest published price for generic
pharmaceuticals to 250% of the lowest average manufacturer price (“AMP”). On July 17, 2007, CMS
published a final rule implementing these provisions and clarifying, among other things, the AMP
calculation methodology and the DRA provision requiring manufacturers to publicly report AMP for
branded and generic pharmaceuticals. In December 2007, the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia issued a preliminary injunction that enjoins CMS from implementing certain
provisions of the AMP rule to the extent that it affects Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail
pharmacies under the Medicaid program. The order also enjoins CMS from disclosing AMP data to
states and other entities. In October 2008, CMS issued a separate final rule stating that the
federal upper limits will govern in all states unless a state finds that a particular generic drug
is not available within that state. These payment limits remain unenforced as a result of the 2007
preliminary injunction. The outcome of the ongoing litigation in the District of Columbia is
unknown. The Medicaid Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (“MIPPA”) delayed the
adoption of CMS’s July 17, 2007 rule and prevented CMS from publishing AMP data before October 1,
2009. Although CMS has yet to take action, the use of an
AMP benchmark may result in a reduction in the Medicaid reimbursement rates to our customers for
certain generic pharmaceuticals, which may indirectly impact the prices that we can charge our
customers for generic pharmaceuticals and cause corresponding declines in our profitability. There can be no assurance that the changes under the DRA will not have an
adverse impact on our business. Unless we are able to develop plans to mitigate the potential
impact of these legislative and regulatory changes, these changes in reimbursement formula and
related reporting requirements and other provisions of the DRA could significantly reduce our
profitability.

 

10




Table of Contents



The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007, among other things, requires CMS to
adjust Medicare Part B drug average sales price (“ASP”) calculations to use volume-weighed ASPs
based on actual sales volume. This law, which became effective April 1, 2008, could reduce
Medicare reimbursement rates for some Part B drugs, which may indirectly impact the prices we can
charge our customers for pharmaceuticals and result in reductions in our profitability.


First DataBank, Inc. and Medi-Span publish drug databases that contain drug information and
pricing data. The pricing data includes average wholesale price, or AWP, which is a pricing
benchmark widely used to calculate a portion of the Medicaid and Medicare Part D reimbursements
payable to pharmacy providers. AWP is also used to establish the pricing of pharmaceuticals to
certain of our pharmaceutical distribution customers in Puerto Rico. On September 3, 2009, the
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit upheld settlements in class action litigation concerning the
calculations of AWP pricing data. Under the settlements, First DataBank, Inc. and Medi-Span reduced
to 20% the markup on about 1,400 drugs included in the litigation. The companies also reduced to
20% the markup on all drugs with a mark-up higher than 20% and will stop publishing AWP in two
years. We continue to evaluate the impact that these actions could have on the business of our
customers and our business. There can be no assurances that these settlements and related actions
will not have an adverse impact on the business of our customers and/or our business.



ABSG’s business may be adversely affected in the future by changes in Medicare reimbursement
rates for certain pharmaceuticals, including oncology drugs administered by physicians. Since ABSG
provides a number of services to or through physicians, this could result in slower growth or lower
revenues for ABSG.


Our revenue growth rate has been negatively impacted by a reduction in sales of certain anemia
drugs, primarily those used in oncology, and may, in the future, be adversely affected by any
further reductions in sales or restrictions on the use of anemia drugs or a decrease in Medicare
reimbursement for these drugs. Several developments contributed to the decline in sales of anemia
drugs, including expanded warning and other product safety labeling requirements, more restrictive
federal policies governing Medicare reimbursement for the use of these drugs to treat oncology
patients with kidney failure and dialysis, and changes in regulatory and clinical medical
guidelines for recommended dosage and use. In addition, the FDA has announced that it is reviewing
new clinical study data concerning the possible risks associated with erythropoiesis stimulating
agents (anemia drugs) and may take additional action with regard to these drugs. CMS has indicated
that it may impose additional restrictions on Medicare coverage in the future. Also, on July 30,
2008, CMS announced it is considering a review of national Medicare coverage policy for these drugs
for patients who have cancer or pre-dialysis chronic kidney disease. Any further changes in the
recommended dosage or use of anemia drugs or reductions in reimbursement for such drugs could
result in slower growth or lower revenues.


The federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare
and/or Medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. At this time,
we can provide no assurances that such changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our
business.


Changes to the United States healthcare environment may negatively impact our business and our
profitability.


Our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare
financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the United States. In recent years, the
healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government
spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain Medicare
funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers
and customers; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the
healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential
changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding for certain healthcare services or adverse
changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or
mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of our products
and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. We
expect continued government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes
in pharmaceutical manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce
our profitability.


Congressional leaders also have expressed their intention to enact a comprehensive health
reform plan, including provisions to control health care costs, improve health care quality, and
expand access to affordable health insurance, potentially including the establishment of a
government health insurance plan that would compete with private health plans. Health reform
legislation could include changes in Medicare and Medicaid prescription drug payment policies and
other health care delivery reforms that would potentially impact our business. The United States
House of Representatives has passed its version of a health reform bill, but the United States
Senate has not yet taken action on pending health reform proposals. As a result, the exact
provisions to be included in a final bill are unknown at this time, nor can we be certain when or
if any such legislation will be enacted. Given the potentially sweeping nature of the changes
under consideration, there can be no assurances that health reform legislation, if adopted, will
not adversely impact our business.


If we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we
could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.


We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations
relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to strengthen its position
and scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting Medicare, Medicaid and other
government healthcare programs. Our relationships with healthcare providers and pharmaceutical
manufacturers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other
things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in
order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or the ordering or purchasing of items or
services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored
healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and
providers of designated health services under Medicare and Medicaid programs. Legislative
provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially
increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. While we believe that
we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, many of the regulations applicable
to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with pharmaceutical
sales, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted
or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us
to make changes in our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer
civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in
Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.

 

11




Table of Contents



Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by qui tam litigation.


Violations of various federal and state laws governing the marketing, sale and purchase of
pharmaceutical products can result in criminal, civil, and administrative liability for which there
can be significant financial damages, criminal and civil penalties, and possible exclusion from
participation in federal and state health programs. Among other things, such violations can form
the basis for qui tam complaints to be filed. The qui tam provisions of both the federal civil
False Claims Act and various state civil False Claims Acts authorize a private person, known as a
“relator” (i.e. whistleblower), to file civil actions under these federal and state statutes on
behalf of the federal and state governments. Under the federal civil False Claims Act and the
applicable state civil False Claims Acts, the filing of a qui tam complaint by a relator imposes
obligations on federal and state government authorities to investigate the allegations and to
determine whether or not to intervene in the action. Such cases typically revolve around the
marketing, sale and/or purchase of branded pharmaceutical products and allege wrongdoing in the
marketing, sale and/or purchase of such products. Such complaints are filed under seal and remain
sealed until the applicable court orders otherwise. Our business and results of operations could
be adversely affected if qui tam complaints are filed against us for alleged violations of any
health laws and regulations and for damages arising from resultant false claims and if government
authorities decide to intervene in any such matters and/or we are found liable for all or any
portion of violations alleged in any such matters.


A qui tam matter is pending in the United States District Court for the District of
Massachusetts (the “Federal District Court”) naming Amgen Inc. as well as two business units of
AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group, AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group, and AmerisourceBergen
Corporation as defendants. On October 30, 2009, the relator, a former Amgen employee, filed a
second amended complaint and fourteen states and the District of Columbia filed a complaint (the
“Intervention Complaint”) to intervene in the pending civil case. The complaints allege that from
2002 through 2009, Amgen offered remuneration to medical providers in violation of federal and
state health laws to increase purchases and prescriptions of Amgen’s anemia drug, Aranesp.
Specifically with regard to the Company’s business units, the complaints allege that ASD Specialty
Healthcare, Inc., which is a distributor of pharmaceuticals to physician practices (“ASD”), and
International Nephrology Network, which was a business name for one of the Company’s subsidiaries
and a group purchasing organization for nephrologists and nephrology practices (“INN”), conspired
with Amgen to promote Aranesp in violation of federal and state health laws. The complaints
further allege that the defendants caused medical providers to submit to state Medicaid programs
false certifications and false claims for payment for Aranesp. According to the complaints, the
latter conduct allegedly violated state civil False Claims Acts and constituted fraud and unjust enrichment.
The qui tam complaint, as amended on October 30, 2009, also alleges that the defendants caused
medical providers to submit to other federal health programs, including Medicare, false
certifications and false claims for payment for Aranesp.


Under the federal civil False Claims Act and the applicable state civil False Claims Acts, the
filing of the original qui tam complaint by the former Amgen employee triggered obligations of
federal and certain state government authorities to investigate the allegations and to determine
whether or not to intervene in the action. In connection with this investigative process, the
Company has received subpoenas for records issued by the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Eastern District of New York (the “Department of Justice”). The allegations in the Intervention
Complaint and the qui tam complaint, as amended, are within the scope of the Department of
Justice’s subpoenas. The Company has been cooperating with the Department of Justice in the
inquiry and is producing records in response to the subpoenas. Such subpoenas may be issued in
conjunction with investigations arising from the filing of one or more qui tam complaints. Because
such lawsuits are filed under seal, and remain under seal until the applicable court orders
otherwise, their existence cannot be disclosed absent court order. Therefore, given the pendency
of the Department of Justice investigation, the possibility exists that one or more qui tam suits
have been filed.


Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we are found liable for
the violations alleged in the pending qui tam case and/or if the Department of Justice or other
state authorities should elect to intervene in the pending case and/or if there should be any
companion qui tam cases that arise against us and the other defendants or are pending but yet
unsealed.


Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake
acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to
integrate.


We expect to continue to implement our growth strategy, in part, by acquiring companies. At
any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with
regard to one or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. We make public
disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable
securities laws and regulations.


Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties. If we complete one or more
acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a
number of factors, including: the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have
projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities; the fair value of
assets acquired and liabilities assumed; the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and
operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities
that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the difficulties in the integration
of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the failure
to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions.

 

12




Table of Contents



Our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by
foreign operations.


We have pharmaceutical distribution operations based in Canada and provide contract packaging
and clinical trials materials services in the United Kingdom. We may consider additional foreign
acquisitions in the future. Our existing foreign operations and any operations we may acquire in
the future carry risks in addition to the risks of acquisition, as described above. At any
particular time, foreign operations may encounter risks and uncertainties regarding the
governmental, political, economic, business and competitive environment within the countries in
which those operations are based. Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency
fluctuations that could impact our results of operations and financial condition based on the
movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar.


Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our
business and results of operations.


Our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze,
and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from
numerous distribution centers; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to account
for other product and service transactions with customers; to manage the accurate billing and
collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Our business and
results of operations may be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted or damaged by
unforeseen events or if they fail for any extended period of time, including due to the actions of
third parties. A third party service provider (IBM) is responsible for managing a significant
portion of ABDC’s information systems. Our business and results of operations may be adversely
affected if the third party service provider does not perform satisfactorily.


Certain of our businesses continue to make substantial investments in information systems. To
the extent the implementation of these systems fail, our business and results of operations may be
adversely affected.


Risks generally associated with implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system
may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting.


We are preparing to implement an ERP system to handle the business and financial processes
within ABDC’s operations and our corporate functions. ERP implementations are complex and
time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation
activities that can continue for several years. ERP implementations also require transformation of
business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Our business and
results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems and/or cost
overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system, and the associated process
changes, do not give rise to the benefits that we expect.


Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the ERP system as planned or if the system
does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect the effectiveness of our internal controls
over financial reporting.


Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition.


We are a large corporation with operations in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and the
United Kingdom. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the United States federal,
state and local governments and of certain foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various
legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our
tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be
adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as
well as foreign, tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying
interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by
relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.


The enactment of provincial legislation or regulations in Canada to lower pharmaceutical
product pricing and service fees may adversely affect our pharmaceutical distribution business in
Canada, including the profitability of that business.


As in the United States, our products and services function within the existing regulatory
structure of the healthcare system in Canada. The purchase of pharmaceutical products in Canada is
funded in part by the provincial governments, which each regulate the financing and reimbursement
of drugs independently. In recent years, like the United States, the Canadian healthcare industry
has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. For
example, in 2006, the Ontario government enacted the Transparent Drug System for Patients Act,
which significantly revised the drug distribution system in Ontario. Then in July 2009, the Ontario
government announced that it was undertaking a review of that legislation with a view to, among
other things, lower costs for taxpayers. Some of these potential changes, such as adverse changes
in legislation or regulations governing the drug distribution supply chain, prescription drug
pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits or a reduction in government funding for certain
healthcare services may result in lower service fees, cause healthcare industry participants to
reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay
for our products and services. Legislation and/or regulations
that may lower pharmaceutical product pricing and service fees are reportedly under
consideration by some other provinces as well. We expect continued government and private payor
pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers’ pricing or
distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability in Canada.

 

13




Table of Contents









    
    
    


    ITEM 1B