ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

        In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered before deciding to invest in any
of Abbott's securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Abbott, or risks Abbott currently considers immaterial, could also affect Abbott's actual results. Abbott's business,
financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. 

 Abbott may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of or spin-off businesses, which could cause it to
incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability.  

        Abbott may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of or spin-off some
of its businesses, as part of its business strategy. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected
benefits. If Abbott is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than
originally anticipated. Abbott may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities.
Abbott could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for
impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of Abbott's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. 

 The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may affect Abbott's future revenues and operating income.  

        Many of Abbott's businesses rely on patent and trademark and other intellectual property protection. Although most of the challenges to
Abbott's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property protections. To the extent Abbott's intellectual property is successfully
challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or to the extent it does not allow Abbott to compete effectively, Abbott's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce Abbott's
intellectual property rights or to the extent that countries require compulsory licensing of its intellectual property, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced. Abbott's
principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in the sections captioned, "Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses" and "Financial Review," and litigation regarding these patents is
described in the section captioned "Legal Proceedings." 

        Abbott
faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. The expiration or loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic
substitutes that may significantly reduce Abbott's sales for that product in a short amount of time. If Abbott's competitive position is compromised because of generics or otherwise, it could have a
material adverse effect on its revenues, margins, business, and results of operations. 

 Competitors' intellectual property may prevent Abbott from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.  

        Competitors may claim that an Abbott product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property
infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require Abbott to enter into license agreements. Abbott cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license agreements on commercially
reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject Abbott to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale or use of 

10




 

<A
HREF="#GA47401a_main_toc">Table of Contents

affected
Abbott products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition. 

 Abbott is subject to cost-containment efforts that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating income.  


        In the United States and other countries, Abbott's businesses have experienced downward pressure on product pricing.
Cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in the section captioned "Regulation." To the extent these cost containment efforts are
not offset by greater patient access to healthcare or other factors, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced. 

 Abbott is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes.  

        Abbott's products are subject to rigorous regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and numerous international,
supranational, federal, and state authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be
granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new
indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues, and in substantial additional costs. 

        In
addition, no assurance can be given that Abbott will remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once clearance or approval has been obtained for a
product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, and advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports
and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. Many of Abbott's facilities and procedures and those of Abbott's suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by
the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Abbott must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. Possible regulatory actions could include warning
letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of Abbott's products, and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to
Abbott's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of Abbott's products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of Abbott's facilities while Abbott or Abbott's
suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these
events could disrupt Abbott's business and have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues, profitability and financial condition. 

 Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on Abbott, require Abbott to change its business practices, and restrict its
operations in the future.  

        Abbott's industry is also subject to various federal, state, and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit
program reimbursement, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care
Act, and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances,
substantial fines, imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and
regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Abbott to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales
or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Abbott's business and result in a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues,
profitability, and financial condition. 

11




 

<A
HREF="#GA47401a_main_toc">Table of Contents


 Changes in the health care regulatory environment may adversely affect Abbott's business.  

        A number of the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
2010 require further rulemaking action by governmental agencies to implement. The laws change access to health care products and services and create new fees for the pharmaceutical and medical device
industries. Future rulemaking could increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, or require additional reporting and disclosure. Abbott cannot
predict the timing or impact of any future rulemaking. 

 Abbott's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause Abbott's revenue and profitability
to decline.  

        To remain competitive, Abbott must continue to launch new products and technologies. To accomplish this, Abbott commits substantial
efforts, funds, and other resources to research and development. A high rate of failure is inherent in the research and development of new products and technologies. Abbott must make ongoing
substantial expenditures without any assurance that its efforts will be commercially successful. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after significant funds have been invested. 


        Promising
new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical
outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or
infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Even if Abbott successfully develops new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbott's existing products, they may be quickly
rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things,
entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. Abbott cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development will be launched,
whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new
indications for existing products may cause Abbott's products to become obsolete, causing Abbott's revenues and operating results to suffer. 

 The proposed separation of Abbott into two publicly-traded companies may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or terms, or at all, and may not achieve the
intended benefits.  

        Unforeseen developments, including possible delays in obtaining various tax, regulatory and works council approvals or clearances,
could delay or prevent the proposed separation or cause the proposed separation to occur on terms or conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected. Expenses incurred to accomplish
the proposed separation may be significantly higher than Abbott currently anticipates. Following the proposed separation, the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies
may not be equal to or greater than what the value of Abbott's common stock would have been had the proposed separation not occurred. 

 New products and technological advances by Abbott's competitors may negatively affect Abbott's results of operations.  


        Abbott's products face intense competition from its competitors' products. Competitors' products may be safer, more effective, more
effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior performance features than Abbott's products. Abbott cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction of
competitors' products. 

12




 

<A
HREF="#GA47401a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if Abbott or one of its suppliers encounters problems manufacturing products,
Abbott's business could suffer.  

        The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements.
Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters,
and environmental factors. In addition, single suppliers are currently used for certain products and materials. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may
have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause,
similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. To the
extent Abbott or one of its suppliers
experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability. 

 Significant safety issues could arise for Abbott's products, which could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and financial condition.  


        Health care products typically receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration.
Following regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new safety
issues are reported, Abbott may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, Abbott may be required to provide additional warnings on a product's label or narrow its approved
intended use, either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If serious safety issues arise with an Abbott product, sales of the product could be halted by Abbott or by regulatory
authorities. Safety issues affecting suppliers' or competitors' products also may reduce the market acceptance of Abbott's products. 


        In
addition, in the ordinary course of business, Abbott is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products or the products of other companies that Abbott
promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate
outcome, may have a material adverse effect on Abbott's business and reputation and on Abbott's ability to attract and retain customers. Consequences may also include additional costs, a decrease in
market share for the products, lower income or exposure to other claims. Product liability losses are generally self-insured. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect
on Abbott's profitability and financial condition. 

 Further deterioration in the economic position and credit quality of certain European countries may negatively affect Abbott's results of operations.  

        If economic conditions in certain European countries, including Greece, Portugal, Italy, and Spain, continue to worsen, the time it
takes to collect outstanding trade receivables may increase. Financial instability and fiscal deficits in these countries may result in additional austerity measures to reduce costs, including health
care. At the same time, ongoing sovereign debt issues, including the impact of recent credit downgrades, could increase Abbott's collection risk given that a significant amount of Abbott's receivables
in these countries are with governmental health care systems. 

13




 

<A
HREF="#GA47401a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 The international nature of Abbott's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.  


        Abbott's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Sales outside of the United States make up
approximately 60 percent of Abbott's net sales. The risks associated with Abbott's operations outside the United States include:



•changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs; 
•multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict Abbott's ability to manufacture,
market, and sell its products; 
•differing local product preferences and product requirements; 
•trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; 
•difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing operations; 
•differing labor regulations; 
•potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;  
•political and economic instability, including sovereign debt issues; 
•price and currency exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization,
and other governmental action; 
•inflation, recession and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates; and  
•compulsory licensing or diminished protection of intellectual property. 


These
risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability. 

 Other factors can have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.  


        Many other factors can affect Abbott's profitability and its financial condition,
including:



•Differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for
pensions, retiree health care, stock compensation, intangibles, and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation, the absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum,
compared to the actual amount. 
•Changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements,
product marketing application standards, and environmental laws in domestic or foreign jurisdictions. 
•Changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities, and supplies), interest rates, market
value of Abbott's equity investments, and the performance of investments held by Abbott or Abbott's employee benefit trusts. 
•Changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to Abbott or Abbott's
employee benefit trusts. 
•Changes in business, economic, and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks in the
U.S. and other parts of the world, the threat of future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of
insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs, or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups. 

14




 

<A
HREF="#GA47401a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•Changes in Abbott's business units and investments and changes in the relative and absolute contribution of each to
earnings and cash flow resulting from evolving business strategies, changing product mix, changes in tax laws or tax rates both in the U.S. and abroad and opportunities existing now or in the future.  
•Changes in the buying patterns of a major distributor, retailer, or wholesale customer resulting from buyer purchasing
decisions, pricing, seasonality, or other factors, or other problems with licensors, suppliers, distributors, and business partners. 
•Difficulties related to Abbott's information technology systems, any of which could adversely affect business operations,
including any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction, loss of data privacy, or interruption of these systems. 
•Changes in credit markets impacting Abbott's ability to obtain financing for its business operations.  
•Legal difficulties, any of which could preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect profitability,
including claims asserting statutory or regulatory violations, adverse litigation decisions, and issues regarding compliance with any governmental consent decree or agreements. 

 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

        This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations, estimates,
and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "forecasts," variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify
these forward-looking statements. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K, may cause actual results to
differ materially from current expectations, estimates, projections, forecasts, and from past results. No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate, or projection contained in a
forward-looking statement will be achieved or will not be affected by the factors cited above or other future events. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to
forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.  

<A
NAME="dg47401_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B