Item 1A, Risk
Factors. You should carefully review the risks described herein and in other
documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”), including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to be filed in 2009.
When used in this report, the words “expects,” “could,” “would,” “may,”
“anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “targets,” “estimates,”
“looks for,” “looks to” and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding
our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking
statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to
the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date
of this document.
     
    PART I
     
    ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
     
    Founded
in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified
software companies in the world. We offer a line of creative, business and
mobile software and services used by creative professionals, knowledge workers,
consumers, original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) partners, developers and
enterprises for creating, managing, delivering and engaging with compelling
content and experiences across multiple operating systems, devices and media. We
distribute our products through a network of distributors, value-added resellers
(“VARs”), systems integrators, independent software vendors (“ISVs”) and OEMs,
direct to end users and through our own Web site at www.adobe.com. We also
license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and
service providers, and we offer integrated software solutions to businesses of
all sizes. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa
(“EMEA”) and Asia. Our software runs on personal computers with Microsoft
Windows, Apple Mac OS, Linux, UNIX and various non-PC platforms, depending on
the product.
     
    Adobe was
originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was
reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. We maintain executive offices and
principal facilities at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our
telephone number is 408-536-6000. We maintain a Web site at www.adobe.com.
Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as
well as from the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov.
     
    BUSINESS
OVERVIEW
     
    For more
than 25 years, Adobe software and technologies have helped redefine how people
engage with ideas and information—anytime, anywhere and through any medium. The
impact of our solutions is evident across many industries and is felt by anyone
who creates, views and interacts with information.
     
    Today,
through the delivery of powerful design, imaging and publishing software for
print, Web, mobile and dynamic media production, and by delivering a technology
platform, we help people express, share, manage and collaborate on their ideas
in imaginative and meaningful new ways.
     
    Our
strategy is to address the needs of a variety of customers which include
creative professionals—graphic designers, Web designers, videographers,
photographers and professional publishers; knowledge workers—teams of workers
who share and collaborate on high-value information; enterprise users—IT
managers, line of business managers and executives; high-end consumers—digital
imaging and digital video hobbyists and enthusiasts; application developers and
OEM partners—mobile device manufacturers, printer manufacturers, Internet
service providers and developers.
     
    We
execute against this strategy by delivering products that support industry
standards and can be deployed across multiple computing environments. We also
leverage the broad reach of our ubiquitous client technologies including our
universal Adobe Reader, and our Adobe Flash Platform which enables the
development of products and solutions that dramatically improves how businesses
and governments engage with their customers, employees and
constituents.  Our Adobe Flash Platform includes our broadly deployed
Adobe Flash Player and our Adobe AIR software which enables developers to build
and deploy rich media and Internet applications to client
devices.  Together, these client technologies
    
      
        
        
      
      
        3
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    allow
users of our products and technologies to ensure reliable, secure and rich
application experiences across devices, browsers and operating
systems.
     
    PRODUCTS
AND SERVICES OVERVIEW
     
    In fiscal
2008, we categorized our products and services into the following businesses:
Creative Solutions, Business Productivity Solutions, Mobile and Device Solutions
and Other.  We further broke our Business Productivity Solutions
business into two reported segments:  Knowledge Worker and
Enterprise.  We also broke our Other business into two reported
segments:  i) Platform and ii) Print and Publishing.
     
    Effective
in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we modified our segment
reporting.  Our Creative Solutions segment and our Business
Productivity Solutions business that is reported in two segments (Knowledge
Worker and Enterprise), continue to be reported as they were in fiscal
2008.  Our Mobile and Device Solutions business, which was moved into
our Platform business unit, will be reported as part of the Platform
segment.
     
    Accordingly,
our five fiscal 2009 business segments are as follows:  Creative
Solutions, Knowledge Worker, Enterprise, Platform, and Print and Publishing.
This overview, organized by these segments, combines an explanation of our
various market opportunities with a summary of our fiscal 2008 results and a
discussion of our strategies to address our market opportunities in fiscal 2009
and beyond.
     
    Creative
Solutions Segment
     
    Creative
Solutions Market Opportunity
     
    Our
Creative Solutions segment focuses primarily on the needs of the creative
professional customer. Creative professionals include graphic designers,
production artists, Web designers and developers, user interface designers,
writers, videographers, photographers and prepress
professionals.  They use and rely on Adobe’s solutions for
professional publishing, Web design and development, professional photography,
video production, animation and motion graphic production and printing visually
rich information.
     
    Our
software tools are used by creative professionals to create much of the printed
and on-line information people see and read every day, including newspapers,
magazines, Web sites, catalogs, advertisements, brochures, product
documentation, books, memos, reports and banners. Our tools are also used to
create and enhance visually rich content, including video, animation and mobile
content, that is created by multimedia, film, television, audio and video
producers who work in advertising, Web design, music, entertainment, corporate
and marketing communications, product design, user interface design, sales
training, printing, architecture and fine arts. Knowledge workers, hobbyists and
high end consumers are also attracted to our creative products to create and
deliver content that is of creative professional quality.
     
    Our
offerings in the Creative Solutions market extend to real-time rich media
solutions which give business users the control to upload, manage, enhance and
publish dynamic rich content with minimal IT support.  Our offerings
also extend to the delivery of rich media through streaming media and a flexible
development environment for creating and delivering innovative, interactive
media applications.  Our media products and services enable
broadcasters, events organizers and marketers to reach the broadest possible
audience via our rich Flash Platform.
     
    As
technology continues to improve, the market dynamics for these creative
professionals continue to evolve. Due to the constantly changing ways in which
people choose to receive information, creative professionals look to their
software tools as a means to make their information impactful and to repurpose
content across a variety of media and applications. They desire greater
efficiency from the software they use to streamline their publishing and content
creation workflows and to effectively manage their assets. They also look for
new and innovative ways to deliver their content and information to hand-held
devices such as mobile handsets and consumer electronic devices.
     
    Creative
professional customers license upgrades and new units of our Creative Solutions
products due to the high degree of innovative new features and significant
productivity gained through their use. They also frequently purchase license
upgrades and new units of these products when they buy new computers, or migrate
to new or updated operating systems.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        4
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    In
addition, knowledge workers in enterprises, educators in schools and
universities, and hobbyists at home license our Creative Solutions products.
Knowledge workers desire professional-quality products to accomplish tasks such
as creating visually-rich sales presentations, engineering or architectural
proposals, real estate flyers and school year books. Educators utilize our
solutions to educate future creative professionals, as well as create their
course content and online eLearning-based lessons.  Hobbyists use our
tools to create distinctive online communications and photo albums, community
newsletters, Web blogs, animations, videos and Web sites for family, friends or
community organizations.
     
    With the
increasing use of the Web as a means for marketing and advertising, we believe a
key driver of our Creative Solutions business will also be the growing amount of
Web site and mobile device content created by our customers to deliver impactful
and compelling Web-based experiences for their constituents.
     
    Another
driver of our Creative Solutions business is the growth in the use of digital
devices such as digital cameras, digital video cameras, multimedia-enabled
computers, DVD players, scanners, Web-capable image and video-enabled handheld
devices, cellular phones, gaming consoles and other non-PC Internet-connected
devices. In addition, faster Internet broadband speeds make the Web a viable
platform for the delivery of rich media, especially digital video. In turn, the
growth in the use of high definition (“HD”) televisions and video is driving the
need for HD-enhanced video tools to produce HD content for movies and commercial
television, as well as the need to deliver or repurpose this content to be
viewed on the Web.
     
    As the
use of digital photography and digital videography grows, we believe creative
professionals and professional photographers throughout the world will continue
to require software solutions to edit, enhance and manage their digital
photographs and digital videos.  Increasingly, we expect these users
to desire software solutions which leverage the Web as a platform to deliver the
capabilities of some or all of the features they desire in desktop
software.  In addition, we believe creative professionals and Web
developers are increasing their use of digital video streams over the Web to
create more compelling Web sites. We believe professional videographers are
upgrading their systems to support HD video content creation, enhancement and
delivery. We also believe hobbyists will use, with more frequency, digital
imaging and digital video software and online hosted software services as they
purchase more affordable digital cameras and digital video cameras.
     
    Creative
Solutions Business Summary
     
    In fiscal
2008, we maintained our focus on driving adoption of our creative products which
achieved record revenue in fiscal 2008 and collectively represented a majority
of our overall revenue in the year.  During the first three quarters
of the year, a key focus in our Creative Solutions business was on marketing and
licensing Adobe Creative Suite version 3 (“CS3”) family of
products.  Our CS3 family of products, which first shipped in fiscal
2007, incorporated Adobe technologies used by creative professionals into six
Creative Suite editions and thirteen individual creative products, providing
offerings for the various creative disciplines our customers
desire.  These disciplines include end-user markets such as
interactive design for print and Web, as well as rich media and digital video
creation.  Licensing of CS3 products was solid during this time
period, despite uncertain global economic conditions in our end-user
markets.
     
    In the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we introduced the successor to our CS3 family of
products, Adobe Creative Suite version 4 (“CS4”) family of products.  The
CS4 family of products includes six Creative Suite editions, thirteen individual
creative products and seven services which enhance the overall capabilities of
the product family.  Innovations in our CS4 family of products include
enhanced features which allow users to work more efficiently, improved product
integration among the various technologies within the Creative Suite products,
better integrated workflow and collaboration capabilities, and significant
performance improvements.  Our CS4 family of products launch included new
versions of our individual creative products such as Adobe After Effects, Adobe
Contribute, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Encore, Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Flash
Professional, Adobe InCopy, Adobe InDesign, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop,
Adobe Photoshop Extended, Adobe Premiere Pro and Adobe Soundbooth. Services
include Adobe ConnectNow from Acrobat.com, Adobe Community Help, Adobe InContext
Editing (ICE), Adobe Kuler, Adobe Media Player, Resource Central and Adobe
Bridge Home. In addition to licensing the Creative Suite editions noted above,
customers also license these individual products.  Product reviews and
general industry commentary for our new CS4 family of products was
positive.  However, we believe the global financial crisis and the general
macro economic environment caused end-user demand for our new CS4 family of
products to be weaker than we expected in the fourth quarter.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        5
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    During
the year, with both the CS3 and CS4 family of products, we also maintained our
focus on meeting the digital imaging and video software needs of professional
photographers, professional videographers, business users and
hobbyists.  Adobe Photoshop is an essential tool in these customers’
workflows and they rely on Adobe’s digital imaging and video editing solutions
to create and enhance many of the pictures and video we see everyday in print,
on television, in movies and on the Web.  Combined, Photoshop,
Photoshop Extended Edition and Photoshop Lightroom achieved strong market
adoption and revenue results during the year.
     
    In the
dynamic media market, which includes users who require new and advanced digital
video and animation technologies, we continued to focus on driving adoption of
our new digital video-based technologies. In addition to our new versions of our
dynamic media authoring tools that launched in the fourth quarter,  we
released Adobe Flash Media Server 3 (“FMS”) in early 2008 which provides
improved streaming capabilities, performance improvements and enhanced digital
rights management capabilities.  The launch of FMS, which is licensed
either directly by our customers or licensed through our Flash Video Streaming
Service via Content Delivery Network (“CDN”) partners such as Akamai and
Limelight, helped to accelerate broad adoption of Flash Video (“FLV”), the video
file format compatible with Adobe Flash Player as the preferred format for
delivery of digital video via the Web.  Because of the broad reach and
ubiquity of our Flash client technologies, the growing adoption of our authoring
tools and our video delivery capabilities via our Flash Player, it is estimated
by the research agency comScore that more than 80% of worldwide video watched
online is now in FLV format.
     
    In the
professional page layout market, we continued to drive market share gains
during the year with our Adobe InDesign product. In addition to success with our
stand-alone desktop version, we also saw the InDesign ecosystem continue to grow
in fiscal 2008—our software and systems integrator partners successfully
deployed new innovative workflow solutions based on InDesign and InDesign Server
within enterprise-class newspaper, magazine and book publishing
systems.  Similarly, in the Web layout and Web development markets,
and in the illustration markets, we achieved strong revenue results driven
respectively by the delivery of new versions of our Adobe Dreamweaver and Adobe
Illustrator products.
     
    Our
Scene7 business, which provides businesses with an easy-to-use Web-based system
to upload, manage, enhance and publish dynamic rich content, achieved strong
year-over-year growth based on accelerated customer adoption of our
solution.  To enhance our global Scene7 capabilities, in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2008 we acquired YaWah ApS, a European dynamic imaging
software provider based in Denmark.
     
    During
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we released version 7.0 of our Adobe
Photoshop Elements software which is our digital imaging application targeted
for amateur photographers and digital imaging hobbyists. In the same quarter, we
released version 7.0 of Adobe Premiere Elements software which is our video
editing software that can be used by hobbyists to enhance and share their
digital video memories on DVDs. We also released a software bundle that includes
the new versions of Adobe Photoshop Elements and Adobe Premiere Elements to
target hobbyists who desire both applications in one affordable package. These
new hobbyist product releases helped to generate record revenue in this
product category during the year and contributed year-over-year revenue growth
to our overall creative business.
     
    Creative
Solutions Business Strategy
     
    In fiscal
2009, our Creative Solutions strategy will continue to focus on driving revenue
growth and increasing market share of our products through the delivery of
comprehensive software solutions that meet the evolving needs of our customers.
To help drive this strategy, we will continue to market the benefits of our
Creative Suite family of products while our engineering teams work on future
product versions with a focus on improved integration between our products, as
well as enhanced functionality and more efficient collaboration and workflow
capabilities.
     
    We
believe that, while many of our customers have made the switch to our Creative
Suite editions from individual creative products, there still remains a
large opportunity to migrate customers from individual products to Creative
Suite editions – particularly in emerging markets and other large geographic
markets outside the United States where editions of our Creative Suite
penetration is lower.  We also believe that some creative customers
will continue to remain as users of the individual applications – and over time,
there continues to exist an opportunity of upgrading these existing individual
users to newer versions of the individual applications they regularly
use.
     
    As we
update the capabilities of our creative solutions, we will continue to market
the benefits of newer versions of our Creative Suite family of products to
existing users to drive upgrades. We also will market the features of these
products to
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        6
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    new users
of creative applications — those who aspire to be creative professionals, or
those at home or at work who wish to use the professional-level capabilities of
our solutions, but are not trained creative professionals.
     
    We intend
to continue our efforts to be the recognized market leader in the professional
page layout, Web layout and illustration software markets. In
page layout, we will continue to add new features to our InDesign product
with a focus on cross-media publishing workflows, as well as continue to enhance
its integration with other products print professionals utilize in their
workflows. In Web layout, we strive to continue to redefine the Web experience
by offering the most feature-rich, market-leading solutions for Web site design
and development with our Dreamweaver and Flash offerings.  In
illustration, we will continue to innovate and develop new capabilities which we
believe will preserve our Illustrator product as a leading graphics creation
solution.
     
    We plan
to continue to work on enhancements for our Photoshop and Photoshop Extended
product offerings to meet the evolving needs of professional photographers,
creative professional customers (including graphic designers, Web designers and
video producers) and imaging enthusiasts to drive upgrades and new user
adoption. We also plan to add new capabilities to Adobe Photoshop Lightroom, our
digital photography workflow tool for professional photographers. In addition,
we continue to believe many customers will license the Photoshop product
capabilities via our Creative Suite editions as opposed to licensing
individual creative products.
     
    With our
set of professional digital video and motion graphic products, we strive to
provide the market-leading, end-to-end digital video, motion graphic and
animation platform for our customers. To grow this business, we will continue to
market the advanced features, the cross-platform and cross-device capabilities,
and the workflow benefits of this platform to creative professionals and
videographers in the film, broadcast, corporate and event videography market
segments.  We are also enhancing our FMS solution to deliver the
highest quality video streaming capability and we are working with partners to
deliver integrated video systems and video delivery services. With broad
adoption of Adobe Flash Player and its high-quality video playback features, we
will continue to work on advancing our seamless video authoring-to-playback
workflow capability for those wishing to provide a rich video experience on the
Web and to mobile devices.
     
    To
further our initiatives in digital video and motion graphics, we intend to
extend our leadership position in Web video by continuing to support and drive
the improvement of industry standards, as well as innovate and implement new
content creation and delivery capabilities in our dynamic media products and
Adobe Flash Player.  By focusing on the end-to-end video workflow
needs of our customers, we believe we are uniquely positioned to provide the
best solution for the creation and delivery of high-quality Web video
content.  In addition, as the number of hobbyists desiring easy-to-use
video editing solutions grows, we intend to enhance the video editing and DVD
creation capabilities of our Adobe Premiere Elements and Adobe Premiere Express
products for the sharing of digital video memories.
     
    With our
Scene7 solutions, we intend to market their capabilities to help customers
automate the production and availability of rich media experiences, including
zoom, dynamic sizing, personalization and interactive dynamic product
catalogs.   In addition, we believe Scene7 will help Adobe build
a robust Internet infrastructure, allowing us to further develop Scene7’s
brand-name customer list and accelerate the online availability of Adobe
technologies used by millions of creative professional and hobbyist
users.
     
    Creative
Solutions Products
     
    Adobe
After Effects Professional—software used to create sophisticated animation,
motion graphics and visual effects found in television broadcast, film, DVD
authoring and the Web; provides 2D and 3D compositing, animation and visual
effects tools, as well as advanced features such as motion tracking and
stabilization, advanced keying and warping tools, more than 30 additional visual
effects and additional audio effects.
     
    Adobe
Audition—a professional audio editing environment designed for demanding audio
and video professionals; provides advanced audio mixing, editing and effects
processing capabilities.
     
    Adobe
Creative Suite Design Premium—an integrated software solution that creative
professionals can use as a platform for print, Web and mobile content
publishing; combines Adobe Acrobat Pro, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash
Professional, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe InDesign and Adobe Photoshop Extended
technologies with file management and integration technology called Version Cue,
a file management and control center called Adobe Bridge, a tool used to produce
innovative and compelling content for a broad range of mobile phones and
consumer electronics devices called Adobe
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        7
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Device
Central, and Adobe Acrobat Connect Web conferencing software that enables users
to instantly communicate and collaborate through easy-to-use, easy-to-access
online personal meeting rooms.
     
    Adobe
Creative Suite Design Standard—an integrated software solution that creative
professionals can utilize for professional design and print production, page
layout, image editing, illustration and Adobe PDF workflows; combines Adobe
Acrobat Pro, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe InDesign and Adobe Photoshop technologies,
Version Cue, Adobe Bridge, Adobe Device Central and Adobe Acrobat Connect Web
conferencing software.
     
    Adobe
Creative Suite Master Collection—an integrated software solution which provides
all the tools creative professionals require to create content for every design
discipline in one offering; provides capabilities for professional page layout,
image editing, vector illustration, print production, Web site
design/development, rich interactive content creation, visual effects and motion
graphics, video capture/editing/production, DVD titling and digital audio
production; includes Adobe Acrobat Pro, Adobe After Effects Professional, Adobe
Contribute, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Encore, Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Flash
Professional, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe InDesign, Adobe Photoshop Extended, Adobe
Premiere Pro and Adobe Soundbooth technologies, Version Cue, Adobe Bridge, Adobe
Device Central, Adobe Acrobat Connect and Adobe Dynamic Link which enables
intermediate rendering for a smoother workflow between video production
tools.
     
    Adobe
Creative Suite Production Premium—an integrated software solution that provides
creative professionals a complete post-production solution consisting of video,
audio and design tools that can be utilized to create and deliver content to
film, video, DVD, Blu-ray Disc, the Web and mobile devices; combines Adobe After
Effects Professional, Adobe Encore, Adobe Flash Professional, Adobe Illustrator,
Adobe Photoshop Extended, Adobe Premiere Pro and Adobe Soundbooth technologies,
Version Cue, Adobe Bridge, Adobe Device Central, Adobe Acrobat Connect Web
conferencing software and Adobe Dynamic Link.
     
    Adobe
Creative Suite Web Premium—an integrated software solution that provides
creative professionals a complete solution for creating interactive Web sites,
applications, user interfaces, presentations, mobile device content and other
digital experiences; allows users to prototype Web projects, design Web site
assets, build Web experiences and efficiently maintain and update Web content;
combines Adobe Acrobat Pro, Adobe Contribute, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe
Fireworks, Adobe Flash Professional, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Photoshop
Extended technologies, Version Cue, Adobe Bridge, Adobe Device Central, Adobe
Acrobat Connect Web conferencing software and Adobe Dynamic Link.
     
    Adobe
Creative Suite Web Standard—an integrated software solution that provides a
basic toolkit for Web designers and developers to prototype, design, develop and
maintain Web sites, Web applications, interactive Web experiences and mobile
content; combines Adobe Contribute, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Fireworks and Adobe
Flash Professional technologies, Version Cue, Adobe Bridge, Adobe Device Central
and Adobe Acrobat Connect Web conferencing software.
     
    Adobe
Dreamweaver—a professional software development application used by designers
and developers to create a broad range of Web solutions for publishing online
commerce, customer service and online educational content; includes capabilities
for visually designing HTML pages, coding HTML and application logic and working
with application server technologies.
     
    Adobe
Encore—professional DVD authoring and creation software; provides a
comprehensive set of design tools and integration with other Adobe software to
create a streamlined DVD creation workflow; provides ability to output projects
to recordable DVD formats including Blu-ray, ensuring a wide degree of playback
compatibility.
     
    Adobe
Fireworks—a professional graphics design tool that allows users to rapidly
prototype and design Web sites and Web application interfaces while giving
professional designers and developers tools for creating images that can be
deployed to Web browsers, Adobe Flash Player and Adobe AIR; integrates with
Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash and Adobe Photoshop, and supports Adobe AIR
application development.
     
    Adobe
Flash Media Interactive Server—a new configuration of our streaming media
capabilities to deliver secure, high-quality video on demand, video blogging and
messaging, Web conferencing and live video capabilities that can be viewed via
Adobe Flash Player and Adobe AIR; provides a flexible development environment
for creating and delivering interactive media applications; utilized by many
industries, including media and entertainment, telecommunications, advertising,
government and education.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        8
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Adobe
Flash Media Streaming Server—a new, lower-cost version of our streaming media
capabilities that can be used to deliver live streaming and video-on-demand
streaming; configured for lower volume streaming of content that is suitable for
small- and medium- size streaming needs.
     
    Adobe
Flash Professional—provides an advanced development environment for creating
Internet applications which integrate animations, motion graphics, sound, text
and additional video functionality; solutions built with Adobe Flash
Professional are deployed via the Web to browsers and to devices that run Adobe
Flash Player.
     
    Adobe
Graphics Server—imaging server software used to create and maintain digital
graphics and images on frequently updated data-driven content, such as Web sites
and printed catalogs, by automating the creation and the reuse of images;
integrates with content management and e-commerce systems to automate workflows
and eliminates the tedious manual tasks of refining and reformatting images for
specific purposes.
     
    Adobe
Illustrator—a vector-based illustration design tool used to create compelling
graphic artwork for print publications, Web sites and video
production.
     
    Adobe
InCopy—an editorial tool for collaboration between writers, editors and
copy-fitters; Adobe InCopy is a companion to Adobe InDesign.
     
    Adobe
InDesign—a page-layout application for publishing professionals; based on an
open, object-oriented architecture that enables Adobe and its industry
part­ners to deliver powerful publishing solutions for magazine, newspaper
and other publishing applications.
     
    Adobe
InDesign Server—technology for third-party systems integrators and developers to
use for building design-driven, server-based publishing solutions; brings the
innovative design and typography features of InDesign software to the server
platform and enables Adobe partners to provide new levels of automation and
efficiency in high-end editorial workflows, collateral creation, variable data
publishing and Web-based design solutions.
     
    Adobe
Media Player— A cross-platform media playback application based on Adobe AIR
that allows users to create a personal catalog of television shows, movies and
podcasts that can be watched online and offline.
     
    Adobe
OnLocation—direct-to-disk recording and monitoring software which helps generate
superior quality video from an SD or HD camera connected to a laptop computer;
formerly called DV Rack.
     
    Adobe
Photoshop—provides photo design, enhancement and editing capabilities for print,
the Web and multi-media; used by graphic designers, professional photographers,
Web designers, professional publishers and video professionals, as well as
amateur photographers and digital imaging hobbyists.
     
    Adobe
Photoshop Elements—offers powerful yet easy-to-use photo editing functionality
plus intuitive organizing, printing and sharing capabilities for amateur
photographers and hobbyists who want to create professional-quality images for
print and the Web.
     
    Adobe
Photoshop Express—a new Web-hosted application licensed to media portals for
photo editing and sharing that utilizes Adobe’s award-winning imaging
technologies.
     
    Adobe
Photoshop Extended—provides the capabilities of Adobe Photoshop, plus additional
tools for editing 3D and motion-based content and performing image analysis;
targeted for:  film, video and multimedia
professionals;  graphic and Web designers using 3D and motion;
manufacturing professionals; medical professionals; architects and engineers;
and scientific researchers.
     
    Adobe
Photoshop Lightroom—software designed for professional photographers, it
addresses their unique photography workflow needs by providing more efficient
and powerful ways to import, select, develop and showcase large volumes of
digital images.
     
    Adobe
Premiere Elements—a powerful yet easy-to-use video-editing software for home
video editing; provides tools for hobbyists to quickly edit and enhance video
footage with fun effects and transitions and create custom DVDs for sharing
video with friends and family.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        9
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Adobe
Premiere Express—new Adobe video remix and video editing software licensed to
media portals such as MTV.com, Photobucket and YouTube to provide consumers with
embedded access to industry leading Adobe video editing and enhancement
technologies.
     
    Adobe
Premiere Pro—professional digital video-editing software used to create
broadcast-quality content for video, film, DVD, multimedia and streaming over
the Web.
     
    Adobe
Soundbooth—an application that provides video editors, designers and others who
do not specialize in audio with the tools that they need to accomplish
audio-based tasks in their everyday work, such as removing noise from
recordings, polishing voiceovers and customizing music to fit a video or
animation production.
     
    Adobe
Ultra—software used to transform digital video and HD keying into a practical
daily production tool for all types of video professional users.
     
    Adobe
Visual Communicator—software used to create newscast-style video presentations
that can be delivered via e-mail, CD, DVD, PowerPoint or live over the
Internet.
     
    Flash
Video Streaming Service—either through direct sales, or together with leading
CDN providers, Adobe offers hosted services for streaming on-demand video for
the Adobe Flash Player runtime across high-performance networks; built with
Adobe Flash Media Server, Flash Video Streaming Service provides an effective
way to deliver FLV to large audiences without the overhead of setting up and
maintaining streaming server hardware and network.
     
    Ovation—software
which allows users to enhance Microsoft PowerPoint slides into a richer visual
experience to help deliver more impactful information, presentations and
messages.
     
    Photoshop.com—an
online hosted service that provides customers with the ability to view, enhance
and share their photos in fun ways; also provides photo backup services, the
ability to obtain seasonal artwork and other inspiring ideas that can be
utilized to enhance the photo viewing and sharing experience.
     
    Scene7
On-Demand—provides an easy-to-use, Web-based system to upload, manage, enhance
and publish dynamic rich content; used by many leading online retail Web sites
to automate the production and availability of rich media experiences, including
zoom, dynamic sizing, personalization and interactive dynamic product
catalogs.
     
    Vlog
It!—software which allows users to easily create dynamic video blogs containing
photos, audio, video clips and narration.
     
    Business
Productivity Solutions
     
    The focus
of our Business Productivity Solutions business is to provide solutions which
meet the needs of enterprises and governments to improve their productivity,
help automate business processes, improve collaboration and reduce
time-to-market and costs.  Within our Business Productivity Solutions,
we categorize our opportunities and our results into two distinct
businesses:  Knowledge Worker and Enterprise.  Both
businesses leverage our client platforms that include Adobe Reader, Adobe Flash
Player and Adobe AIR.
     
    Knowledge
Worker Market Opportunity
     
    As part
of our Business Productivity Solutions focus, we address the needs of the
knowledge worker customer whom we define as someone focused on creating and
disseminating high-value information as part of their job on a regular basis.
Knowledge workers include a wide variety of job functions—such as accountants,
attorneys, administrative assistants, executives, architects, educators,
engineers, graphic designers, insurance underwriters, software developers and
stock analysts. These jobs typically require the sharing of information, either
in an information dissemination (one-way) format, or in a collaborative
(multi-way) format.
     
    Knowledge
workers must create information and content from a variety of sources and
software applications, and be able to exchange this information within a
reliable format that ensures coworkers and constituents can reliably and
securely access the information. When appropriate, this information often needs
to be protected or securely managed and controlled.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        10
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Collaboration
among knowledge workers can occur through face-to-face meetings, via phone
calls, through e-mail or through Web conferencing technologies. Knowledge
workers who participate in collaborations with their colleagues may be located
in offices next door to each other, or in different parts of the world. These
team members may change with every project and either be part of an
organization’s employee base, or be an external consultant or third-party
partner.
     
    We
believe there is a significant opportunity to provide solutions which enable
knowledge workers to communicate and collaborate across technical, geographical
and social boundaries, both inside and outside of their companies. We believe
that with such solutions, users can collaborate and efficiently manage feedback
from their colleagues in both real time and on-demand, and control how, when and
by whom information is accessed.
     
    Since the
early 1990s, our Acrobat family of products has provided for the reliable
creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or
application source type. Users can collaborate on documents with electronic
comments and tailor the security of a file in order to distribute reliable Adobe
PDF documents that can be viewed, printed or interacted with utilizing the free
Adobe Reader. Available in different versions which target a variety of user
needs, Adobe Acrobat provides essential electronic document capabilities and
services to help knowledge workers accomplish a wide range of ad hoc tasks
involving digital documents ranging from simple publications to forms to mission
critical engineering and architectural plans. Although Acrobat has achieved
strong market adoption in document-intensive industries such as government,
financial services, pharmaceutical, legal, aerospace, insurance and technical
publishing, we believe there are tens of millions of users who need capabilities
such as those provided by Acrobat who have not yet licensed an Acrobat-based
solution.
     
    In
addition to sharing and collaborating on documents reliably across disparate
platforms with Acrobat, we believe there is an adjacent market opportunity
whereby knowledge workers will increasingly utilize Web conferencing, document
co-authoring and Acrobat hosted service capabilities to more effectively
collaborate and consult with their colleagues, partners and customers. We also
believe businesses will increasingly utilize Web conferencing to improve how
they train, market, sell and support their products and solutions to their
customers.
     
    Our Adobe
Acrobat Connect Pro product provides capabilities via Adobe Flash Player for
live Web conferencing, as well as delivering on-demand rich presentations
through an on-premise server or as a hosted service. By integrating the Web
conferencing functionality of Acrobat Connect Pro with Acrobat, Adobe Reader and
Acrobat.com, we believe we can extend adoption of Web conferencing to a broader
potential market and grow the use of such technology with an easy-to-adopt
business model.
     
    Our new
Acrobat.com service provides centralized online file sharing and storage
capabilities, as well as simple PDF creation, an online word processor and
personal Web conferencing services with Adobe ConnectNow that is based on our
Acrobat Connect Web conferencing solution.  In addition to
complementing our Acrobat desktop solutions, Acrobat.com also serves as an
introductory service for knowledge workers who wish to utilize PDF-creation
capabilities and the Adobe Reader, but have not yet licensed an Acrobat desktop
solution.
     
    Knowledge
Worker Business Summary
     
    Our
business targeting knowledge workers achieved record revenue and solid
year-over-year growth in fiscal 2008. The largest component of this business was
revenue generated by our Acrobat family of products.  Our Acrobat
business benefitted from continued adoption of Adobe Acrobat version 8
throughout the year, as well as licensing of the new release of version 9
beginning in the third quarter of the year.
     
    The
version 9 product family offers enhanced features that allow workgroups to
manage a range of essential business activities such as assembling documents
from multiple sources, controlling security and access to sensitive information,
enabling the creation and filling out of intelligent electronic forms and more
effectively collaborating on documents and projects. In addition, the Acrobat 9
family of products allows users to unify a wide range of content into a PDF
Portfolio.  Users can assemble documents, drawings, e-mail,
spreadsheets and rich media — including audio, video, 3D and maps — in a single,
compressed PDF Portfolio.  Other new version 9 features and
enhancements include the ability to: create interactive, on-demand presentations
using Adobe Presenter software; easily share video in PDF using FLV; improved
security to help protect and control access to PDF documents; permanently remove
sensitive information through the use of redaction tools to black out sensitive
text, illustrations, or other information; easily create and manage electronic
forms; enable anyone using
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        11
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    the free
Adobe Reader to digitally sign documents, participate in shared document reviews
and save forms locally; enable others to access design data such as 2D and 3D
designs that include layers, dimensions and metadata; view and interact with PDF
maps, including searching, measuring and marking up geospatially enabled PDF
maps; and manage and track electronic document reviews through interactive
document reviews that enable participants to see and build on each other’s
comments, which can be sorted by author, date, or page. These enhanced
capabilities helped to continue the increase of our penetration of Acrobat
desktop licenses in enterprises, thereby helping our business to
grow.
     
    During
the year, continued success with adoption of our Creative Suite products has
also contributed to broader adoption of Acrobat in the creative professional
market.  Acrobat Pro version 8 and Acrobat Pro version 9 are included
in four of the six Creative Suite editions and utilization of Acrobat prepress,
printing and collaboration functionality is a critical component of creative
customer workflows.  As such, adoption of Acrobat through the Creative
Suite family of products has resulted in an increasing amount of Acrobat revenue
being reported in our Creative Solutions Segment during the year.
     
    As
indicated earlier, to supplement our Acrobat family of products, we introduced a
beta version of our new hosted service Acrobat.com in the third quarter of
fiscal 2008.  We experienced strong user signup for accounts on
Acrobat.com and believe this compelling service will enhance the growth
capabilities of the Acrobat family of products in the coming years.
     
    Over the
course of fiscal 2008, we also continued to focus on the Web conferencing market
opportunity with our Acrobat Connect Pro product line which is licensed by
customers as on-premise server-based software or as a hosted service. This
approach focuses on charging meeting organizers for the ability to host meetings
and allows for participants to join meetings for free utilizing Adobe Flash
Player.
     
    Knowledge
Worker Strategy
     
    In fiscal
2009, we plan to continue to market the benefits of our knowledge worker
solutions to small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government
institutions around the world. With our Acrobat family of products, we intend to
continue to increase our seat penetration in these markets through the
utilization of our corporate and volume licensing programs. We intend to
increase our focus on marketing and licensing Acrobat in targeted vertical
markets such as education, financial services, telecommunications, government,
manufacturing and the architecture, engineering and construction markets as well
as expanding into emerging markets.
     
    We also
plan to continue to market the newest capabilities of our Acrobat version 9
family of products, including PDF Portfolios and integrated real-time
collaboration, which provide additional value for users who require more
advanced features and solutions.  In addition, we intend to market the
easy-to-use hosted capabilities of our new Acrobat.com service to users
requiring basic and easy-to-use document authoring, collaboration and file
storage capabilities.
     
    With our
Acrobat Connect Pro product, we intend to increase awareness of our solution in
targeted horizontal markets such as training and marketing, as well as targeted
vertical markets such as manufacturing, financial services and
telecommunications. We also intend to market the benefits of how our Acrobat and
Acrobat Connect Pro solutions can be used together to meet the synchronous and
asynchronous collaboration needs in the marketplace. With the broad distribution
and reach of our free Adobe Reader, we also intend to expose the capabilities of
Acrobat Connect Pro to potentially new users with a simple-to-adopt business
model based on monthly or annual subscription fees.
     
    Knowledge
Worker Products
     
    Adobe
Acrobat.com—new service (currently in beta release) which provides centralized
online file sharing and storage capabilities, as well as simple PDF creation, an
online word processor called Buzzword and personal Web conferencing services
with Adobe ConnectNow that is based on our Acrobat Connect Pro Web conferencing
solution.
     
    Adobe
Acrobat Connect Pro—a rich Web-based communication system which enables
organizations to reduce the costs of travel and increase the effectiveness of
online training, marketing events, sales meetings and collaborative Web
conferencing solutions which are instantly accessible by customers, partners and
employees using Adobe Flash Player; consists of a core Connect Events Server or
hosted service, and modules that provide specific application functionality,
including Connect Training and Connect Events; can be deployed with either some
or all of these components together; Connect Training allows organizations to
build a complete online training system with Microsoft PowerPoint
presentations
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        12
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    that
include surveys, analysis, course administration and content management; Connect
Events allows users to provide seminar and training sessions as well as to
conduct business presentations through the Web.
     
    Adobe
Acrobat Standard—creates secure, reliable and compact Adobe PDF documents from
desktop authoring applications such as Microsoft Office software, graphics
applications and more; supports automated collaborative workflows with a rich
set of commenting tools and review tracking features; includes everything needed
to create and distribute rich electronic documents that can be viewed easily
within leading Web browsers or on computer desktops via the free Adobe
Reader.
     
    Adobe
Acrobat Pro—in addition to all the capabilities of Acrobat Standard, Acrobat Pro
delivers specialized capabilities for creative professional and engineering
users, such as pre-flighting, color separation and measuring tools; also allows
users to insert FLV or H.264 video for direct playback in Adobe Acrobat and
Adobe Reader, create dynamic XML forms with Adobe LiveCycle Designer ES and
create PDF documents that enable Adobe Reader users to digitally sign PDF
documents.
     
    Adobe
Acrobat Pro Extended—in addition to all the capabilities of Acrobat Pro, Acrobat
Pro Extended enables collaboration between extended teams of designers and
engineers to more securely and reliably communicate, visualize and document
architectural and manufacturing designs using 3D data; allows users to insert
and publish 3D designs from major CAD applications in Adobe PDF documents that
can easily be shared with suppliers, partners and customers using the free Adobe
Reader software; Acrobat Pro Extended also:  allows users to easily
add audio, video and quizzes to PowerPoint slides to create rich, interactive
presentations with Adobe Presenter; enables conversion of a variety of video
formats to FLV for playback in PDF; and enables the creation of  PDF
maps through the importing geospatial files that can retain metadata and
coordinates.  Acrobat 9 Pro Extended includes Adobe LiveCycle Designer
ES, Adobe Presenter, Adobe 3D Reviewer and Adobe 3D Capture Utility for
UNIX.
     
    Adobe
Document Center—a hosted service that enables businesses to secure and manage
Adobe PDF documents and other common business document files such as those in
Microsoft Office formats.
     
    Create
Adobe PDF Online—a Web-based subscription service that provides for the easy
conversion of Microsoft Office documents and other application files to Adobe
PDF for the secure and reliable sharing of rich electronic documents that can be
viewed easily within leading Web browsers or on computer desktops via the free
Adobe Reader.
     
    See
below for other Knowledge Worker related products.
     
    Enterprise
Opportunity
     
    Enterprises
are under increasing pressure to save money, offer improved customer service,
adhere to regulatory requirements and leverage existing investments in core
systems. As a means to address these issues, a critical component of an
organization’s business processes is the need to interact with data stored in
enterprise applications. As this need expands beyond the core users of those
applications, adapting systems to accommodate a diverse group of users –
including those within and those external to the organization – has become an
expensive and time-consuming endeavor. The outcome is a proliferation of manual
workarounds that result in process inefficiencies, delays and poor quality of
information.
     
    In
addition, enterprises have built Web applications which enjoy the reach of the
Web but often fail to deliver a user interface with the ease of use and richness
that users expect. This impedes utilization of these applications and increases
training costs, and reduces the overall return on investment (“ROI”) that
enterprises expect. Organizations are now looking to Rich Internet Applications
(“RIA”) to boost their ROI for these Web applications by combining a rich
graphical application interface with the universal reach of the
Web.
     
    We
believe significant opportunities exist to help enterprises address these issues
by making their business processes more efficient and their Web applications
more engaging. To address these opportunities, we offer Adobe LiveCycle
solutions to securely extend the reach of information, processes and services to
engage with customers and constituents. Our solutions leverage our Adobe Reader
and Adobe Flash Platform which help businesses and government agencies inspire
commitment in their customers and constituents by engaging them — anywhere,
anytime and in any medium through our universal clients and application
solutions.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        13
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Adobe
Reader and our Adobe Flash Platform ensure reliable, secure and rich application
experiences across browsers, desktops and devices. The platform provides
developers with an RIA programming model to integrate and optimize workflows and
a server software framework to simplify integration and leverage existing
enterprise infrastructures. We also offer services and other software components
to accelerate the creation of compelling, relevant and actionable applications,
either through RIAs or through intelligent electronic documents based on Adobe
PDF.
     
    We
believe Adobe Reader and our Adobe Flash Platform revolutionize how enterprises
and government agencies present, deliver, consume and interact with information
and content. By providing an integrated client-server framework, toolset and
server-side process orchestration engine for developers, designers and IT
organizations, we believe our solutions allow our customers to:
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Engage
      their constituents with compelling experiences and intelligent
      documents—providing them with the ability to act upon information or tasks
      presented to them for improved and effective
  collaboration;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Streamline
      and accelerate document-based processes so more work gets
      done;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Simplify
      the creation and deployment of compelling, relevant and actionable
      applications;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Augment
      existing enterprise infrastructures to deliver the next level of
      engagement with their stakeholders;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Implement
      solutions which adhere to security and regulatory compliance
      requirements;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Scale
      these solutions needs regardless of the size of their constituent
      populations; and
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Leverage
      Adobe Reader and Adobe Flash Platform to reach people inside and outside
      of their organizations, and across all desktops and
    devices.
            
          
      
    
     
    Although
our solutions address the needs of a diverse set of enterprise customers, we
focus primarily on key vertical industries such as financial services,
government, telecommunications, manufacturing and life sciences.  For
these customers, we offer comprehensive, scalable, secure and reliable server
products and tools to develop applications tailored to their specific
information and business process requirements.
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle Enterprise Suite (“ES”) brings together Adobe PDF and Adobe Flash
Platform technologies to provide capabilities which allow businesses and
enterprises to more effectively engage customers, constituents, partners and
employees in key business processes.  LiveCycle ES software is an
integrated J2EE server solution that blends data capture, process management,
information security, document generation and content services to help create
and deliver rich and engaging applications that reduce paperwork, accelerate
decision-making and help ensure regulatory compliance.
     
    Key
differentiating features in LiveCycle ES allow developers to build more engaging
experiences that scale from paper forms to rich and interactive online
applications, protect sensitive information and extend business processes that
span from data capture through process orchestration to document generation —
inside and outside an organization’s firewall.
     
    A key
enhancement in LiveCycle ES is the fusion of Adobe PDF with our Adobe Flex
technologies which utilize the Flash file format and leverage our widely-used
Adobe Flash Player technology.  With Flex, developers are able to
combine the rich user interface of desktop software with the reach and ease of
deployment of the Web and the processing power of desktop computers. This
combination enables the delivery of more complex interactions than are currently
supported by the Web browser model. Flex applications extend the server-based
object model to client systems, improving interactivity by eliminating the
constant page refreshes and context switches that users frequently
experience. As a result, Flex applications enable organizations to provide users
with a dramatically improved experience that supports the manipulation of data
and information in ways that are impractical in a traditional browser-based
environment.
     
    The other
primary component of our LiveCycle ES solutions utilizes Adobe PDF documents
which interact with core business applications and integrate information
contained in those documents into business processes. In addition to capturing
the necessary fidelity for electronic forms, Adobe PDF documents are
“intelligent” – they retain the best characteristics of paper documents, such as
a familiar look, but add powerful business logic capabilities such as data
calculation and validation and automated routing instructions. In addition,
arbitrary data (including XML-based data) can be embedded inside of intelligent
PDF documents for use or access in a business process. These features allow for
more efficient
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        14
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    interaction
with enterprise applications while still providing the ability for people to
manually access and interact with the data when necessary.
     
    Our
LiveCycle ES products leverage our Adobe Reader software—with more than 500
million distributed copies of Adobe Reader, we have created a platform for
extending high value business processes to a wide variety of end users. Adobe
Reader is available on the most common operating system platforms free of
charge, including Microsoft Windows, Apple Mac OS, Linux, various Unix-based
platforms and portable device systems such as Palm OS, Pocket PC and the Symbian
operating system for cellular phones. As a universal client, Adobe Reader
enables users inside and outside the firewall to interact with intelligent PDF
documents on most platforms, including desktops, laptops, PDAs, mobile phones
and kiosks, regardless of the application used to author the
document.
     
    Enterprise
Business Summary
     
    In fiscal
2008, we generated record revenue in our Enterprise business with Adobe
LiveCycle as we continued to achieve strong adoption in targeted markets such as
government, financial services and manufacturing.  Helping to drive
this success was the release of a substantial upgrade to our LiveCycle
ES  product line during the year. This release included numerous
usability and performance improvements as well as two new product
modules:  Adobe LiveCycle Content Services ES and Adobe LiveCycle PDF
Generator 3D ES.  In addition, our integration of Adobe LiveCycle with
other software vendors’ platforms, including those from SAP AG and Parametric
Technology Corporation (“PTC”), helped to further drive adoption during the
year.
     
    Enterprise
Strategy
     
    In fiscal
2009, we will continue to focus on offering more complete enterprise
server-based solutions targeting the needs of governments and enterprises
worldwide. We wish to help these customers develop and deliver self-service and
assisted-service Web-based applications that blend rich user interfaces and
documents with data capture, document collaboration, process management and
document generation capabilities that are easy to use. We strive to provide
solutions which are customer-centric and help the constituents of our customers
work together on complex processes and bridge the digital and paper-based
environments, and do so by providing capabilities that are accessible by anyone.
We intend to provide such solutions directly through our consulting services
organization, as well as together with software partners such as SAP AG and PTC,
along with global and regional systems integrators we partner with that deliver
comprehensive solutions to their customers.
     
    We will
continue to focus our go-to-market efforts on markets such as financial
services, government, manufacturing and life sciences and work to augment our
sales model to include more systems integrator partners.  We will also
work to enhance our solutions offerings through investments in new software as a
service capabilities for our enterprise server product family.
     
    Enterprise
Products
     
    Data
Capture
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle Barcoded Forms ES—server-based software application which enables
organizations to accurately capture user-supplied information from
fill-and-print paper forms that uses proven and dynamic 2D barcode technology
online and offline to automate the extraction of data from paper forms and
deliver it to core systems for processing; dramatically reduces costs, errors
and time compared to manual data entry and solutions based on optical character
recognition; barcodes are initially set up through creation of the form with
Adobe’s Designer application; after the form is printed, signed and returned by
users of the form, the barcode on the form is scanned and decoded, and form data
obtained from the barcode is routed to the appropriate enterprise application
through Adobe’s LiveCycle server products.
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle Data Services ES—high-performance, scalable and flexible framework
that streamlines the development of RIAs using Adobe Flex and Adobe AIR;
abstracts the complexity required to create server push–based applications and
supports a rich set of features to create real-time solutions; utilizes powerful
data services and simplifies data management problems such as tracking changes,
synchronization, paging and conflict resolution; deployed as a standard J2EE Web
application, which enables customers to leverage their existing
infrastructure.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        15
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Adobe
LiveCycle Forms ES—server-based software application that organizations can use
to cost-effectively and securely extend their core business processes beyond
their enterprise system; enables customers to create and deploy XML-based form
templates as PDF, SWF, or HTML for use with Adobe Reader or Adobe Flash Player
software, or with Web browsers; provides for the capture of data from submitted
forms and the transfer of the data directly into an organization’s core business
systems, thereby streamlining form-driven business processes and improving data
accuracy.
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle Reader Extensions ES—server-based software application which lets
enterprises easily share interactive Adobe PDF documents with external parties
without requiring recipients of the documents to purchase Acrobat software that
normally would be necessary to interact with the Adobe PDF documents they
receive; unlocks features on an individual Adobe PDF document by document basis
so that when such a file is opened in the free Adobe Reader, users have access
to tools that normally would not be available in Adobe Reader, such as reviewing
and commenting functions, digital signatures to electronically sign PDF
documents, embedding file attachments, enabling database and Web service
capabilities, and the ability to fill in form data, submit and save electronic
documents locally.
     
    Information
Assurance
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle Digital Signatures ES—server-based software application that helps
organizations automate the processing of electronic documents by providing
batch-based capabilities to digitally sign and certify Adobe PDF documents,
validate digital signatures and encrypt/decrypt Adobe PDF documents; safeguards
information when it leaves a company’s network and integrates with existing
public key infrastructures.
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle Rights Management ES—server-based software application that helps
organizations manage information access securely with dynamic, persistent
document control; allows for access control and auditing of Adobe PDF, Microsoft
Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint, PTC Pro/ENGINEER, Dassault CATIA
and Lattice XVL CAD document usage inside or outside the firewall, online or
offline and across multiple document platforms; lets organizations know when a
document has been viewed, printed or altered and restricts access so that only
intended recipients can open, use and forward a document; allows for previously
granted document permissions and access to be revoked; leverages Adobe Acrobat
and Adobe Reader and other client plug-in software to author and view protected
documents.
     
    Document
Output
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle Output ES—server-based solution which supports on-demand document
processes including the generation of documents such as correspondence,
confirmations, bids, or shipping labels; provides capabilities to merge XML data
from back-end systems with Adobe LiveCycle Designer ES templates to generate
documents in PDF, PDF/A, PostScript, PCL, or Zebra label formats; customers can
customize electronic document packages by combining newly generated PDF
documents with existing files from document repositories; customers can also
convert PDF documents to print or image file formats and then route them
automatically to support direct server-based printing or archiving
operations.
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle PDF Generator ES—server-based software which automates the creation,
assembly, distribution and archival of PDF documents in combination with
critical business processes; converts a wide range of native and standard file
formats, and can combine newly created PDF documents with existing files or
pages to assemble customized PDF packages; supports direct server-based PDF
printing or can convert PDF documents to a wide variety of formats, including
image formats and PDF/A.
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle PDF Generator 3D ES—server-based software which extends Adobe
LiveCycle PDF Generator ES with support for the conversion and integration of
complex 2D and 3D CAD design and engineering product data into a single PDF
document that can be shared using the Adobe Reader software without requiring a
CAD application or viewer.
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle Production Print ES—server-based solution that performs high-volume
jobs through efficient batch processes, generating documents such as statements,
invoices, contracts, or welcome kits; merges XML, ASCII or other data types from
back-end systems with Adobe LiveCycle Designer ES templates to generate
documents in a broad range of print or electronic formats to support high volume
production requirements; enables customers to print document packages by
collecting multiple jobs over time and then grouping them to minimize mailing
costs.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        16
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Process
Management
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle Business Activity Monitoring ES—software that allows administrators
and process participants to quickly identify bottlenecks, check progress and
view other process information related to business transactions; comes in two
versions:  Adobe LiveCycle Business Activity Monitoring (“BAM”) ES
Standard, which allows for the monitoring of all LiveCycle processes with 16
out-of-the-box dashboards and, Adobe LiveCycle BAM ES Extended, which adds the
ability to extend Adobe LiveCycle BAM ES to other enterprise business systems so
that users can monitor business processes inside and outside the LiveCycle
environment.
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle Process Management ES—server-based process management application that
allows organizations to orchestrate people, systems, content and business rules
into streamlined, end-to-end processes that are accessible to process
participants through engaging user interfaces, online or offline; provides
out-of-box dashboards to help users gain insights into business operations in
real time and management tools to fix day-to-day operational problems and make
long-term process improvements.
     
    Content
Services
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle Content Services ES—offers a library of services that can be used with
other LiveCycle solution components to create content-rich engagement
applications whereby end users can share and collaborate on content development
in content spaces as part of a company’s business processes; supports
check-in/check-out capabilities, keeps a complete audit history of all document
actions and provides a fully integrated set of content services ranging from an
enterprise content repository to social collaboration tools such as enterprise
forums; also includes team collaboration capabilities such as forums and
discussions, and provides Microsoft Office plug-ins that enable users to
interact with the process engine and content repository using Microsoft Word and
Microsoft Excel.
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle ES Connectors for ECM—solutions which enables Adobe LiveCycle
customers to connect their LiveCycle applications with other industry-leading
enterprise content management (“ECM”) systems, such as EMC Documentum, IBM
FileNet and IBM Content Manager.
     
    Other
Knowledge Worker and Enterprise Related Products
     
    Adobe
Central Pro Output Server—a server-based software application for document
generation that allows organizations to create personalized, customer-facing
documents from any data source—including legacy, line-of-business, ERP or CRM
applications; merges data with an electronic document template using a powerful
processing engine to dynamically generate electronic documents such as purchase
orders, invoices, statements and checks for delivery via Adobe PDF, the Web,
e-mail, fax or print; works with Adobe Output Designer which is a companion tool
used to create sophisticated document templates.
     
    Adobe
LiveCycle Designer ES—desktop software application which simplifies the creation
and maintenance of intelligent XML based forms for deployment as Adobe PDF
forms, HTML applications and Flash based RIAs; provides an intuitive, graphical
design tool for creating XML templates that look exactly as the author intended
and previewing them before deployment; it also simplifies adding intelligence to
documents, such as business and routing logic, and binding form fields to
arbitrary XML schemes for seamless integration with enterprise
applications.
     
    Adobe
Output Designer—a design tool that allows users to create electronic document
templates for use with Adobe solutions for document generation; aids in the
creation of electronic documents that exactly replicate existing paper
documents.
     
    Adobe
Output Pak for mySAP.com—a SAP-certified server-based software application for
document generation that enables organizations to optimize their investment in
their SAP solution by creating personalized, professional-looking,
customer-facing documents; provides an easy, fast and cost-effective way to
create and maintain documents for the SAP environment; integrates directly with
an SAP system to extract information which is merged with a document template
that defines the layout and formatting of the document; output can be in a
variety of formats, including Adobe PDF, print, fax, e-mail and the
Web.
     
    Adobe
Reader—software for reliable reviewing and printing of Adobe PDF documents on a
variety of hardware and operating system platforms; when used with certain Adobe
PDF documents created with Adobe LiveCycle Reader
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        17
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Extensions
Server, Adobe Acrobat Pro or Adobe Acrobat Pro Extended, Adobe Reader also can
be used to enable collaborative workflows through the addition of collaboration
features built into the Adobe PDF file; these features include review and markup
tools that normally are not present in the standard Adobe Reader
product.
     
    Adobe Web
Output Pak—a server-based software application for document generation; creates
documents in PDF and HTML for presentation on the Web and in Wireless Markup
Language for presentation to a wireless device; allows users to personalize and
control the look of documents based on the data the documents
contain.
     
    BlazeDS—open
source server-based Java remoting and Web messaging technology that enables
developers to easily connect to back-end distributed data and push data in
real-time to Adobe Flex and Adobe AIR applications for more responsive RIA
experiences; previously available as part of Adobe LiveCycle Data Services ES,
BlazeDS technologies is now freely available to developers.
     
    Platform
Segment
     
    Central
to our long-term strategy is our Adobe Flash Platform which enables the
development of products and solutions that dramatically improves how Web
developers and businesses engage with their customers. The Adobe Flash Platform
includes client and developer technologies, such as Adobe Flash Player, Adobe
Flash Lite, Adobe AIR, Adobe Flex and Adobe Flex Builder, and also encompasses
products and technologies created and managed in other Adobe
segments.
     
    Platform
Opportunity and Business Summary
     
    Our
Platform Business Unit focuses on the development, marketing and licensing of
these Adobe Flash Platform technologies.  We have achieved penetration
of Adobe Flash Player on more than 98 percent of Web-connected personal
computers – making it the most widely distributed rich client software in the
world. In addition, the cumulative distribution of Adobe Flash Lite, which is
licensed by mobile handset and consumer electronic device manufacturers, is
rapidly approaching one billion devices as of the Fall of 2008.
     
    The broad
reach of these Adobe Flash Platform technologies allows us to rapidly innovate
with our desktop software and client runtime solutions – enabling our customers
to deliver new and more engaging experiences to their constituents that leverage
the latest advancements in operating systems, hardware and rich media
technologies.
     
    Due to
the success and frequent electronic downloads of our client technologies, we
have generated revenue through OEM relationships with companies such as Google,
where we include their technologies as part of the download offerings of our
client technologies.  In fiscal 2008, this OEM revenue represented a
significant part of the overall revenue we reported in our Platform
segment.
     
    In the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we released Adobe Flash Player version
10.  Building on the broad success of version 9, Flash Player 10 adds
new capabilities for creating special effects, native 3D transformations and
animations.  It also provides advanced audio processing, graphics
processing unit performance acceleration and enhanced text layout options and
control.
     
    In the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, responsibility for the development and marketing
of our mobile client solutions has been transferred to our Platform Business
Unit.  As hundreds of millions of people around the world adopt
Internet-connected hand-held phones and devices as a means to communicate,
collaborate and entertain, as well as consumer electronic devices such as
digital cameras, game consoles, music players and electronic educational toys,
we believe a significant opportunity exists to offer our Adobe Flash Platform
technologies for these devices to provide for the creation and delivery of rich
content, user interfaces and data services which allow users to engage with
information more easily and effectively.
     
    We
achieved record revenue results and strong unit adoption of our client software
on mobile and consumer electronic devices during the fiscal year. As of October
2008, our Flash Lite client has been installed on more than 800 million devices
worldwide – on over 430 different mobile handset models and over 140 different
device models. This success has been driven by hardware OEM relationships with
companies such as Nokia, Sony/Ericsson, LG Electronics, Motorola and
Samsung.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        18
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    In
addition to key mobile OEM relationships we have established, we provide Flash
Lite for Qualcomm BREW on the Verizon network. This relationship serves to
broaden the Flash Lite ecosystem in the United States, driven by the ability for
Verizon subscribers to view Flash based content on their BREW enabled
handsets.
     
    During
the year, we also achieved strong unit adoption of our Flash Lite client on
consumer electronics devices. Customers have licensed our Flash Lite for
distribution on devices such as the Nintendo Wii and the Sony PlayStation
Portable and PlayStation devices.
     
    As part
of our strategy to drive broad adoption of the Adobe Flash Platform on non-PC
devices, in May of 2008 we announced the Open Screen
Project.  Together with other industry leaders such as ARM, BBC,
Cisco, Intel, Comcast, Nokia, Marvell, Motorola, MTV Networks, NBC Universal,
NTT DoCoMo, Qualcomm, Sony Ericsson and Verizon, we intend to drive the industry
towards a consistent, rich Internet experience that enables developers and
designers to seamlessly publish content and applications across connected
devices.  To achieve this goal, the Open Screen Project will utilize
Adobe’s Flash Platform technologies such as Adobe Flash and Adobe AIR as a
foundation for improved Web browsing and the delivery of RIAs on mobile handset
and consumer electronic devices.
     
    Another
major focus of our Platform team is to broaden the reach and viability of the
Adobe Flash Platform through the delivery of our new cross-platform client named
Adobe AIR.  Based on Flash, PDF and HTML technologies, Adobe AIR
enables the creation and delivery of Web-enabled desktop applications that run
outside of a Web browser.  Adobe AIR based applications extend today’s
Web browser-based applications to have the power and utility of desktop
applications with capabilities such as access to the local file system, alerts
and notifications, and the ability to work offline and then synchronize data
when the application has online access again.  Developers of Adobe AIR
applications are able to create persistent, branded desktop experiences which
can be developed using standard Web technologies such as HTML, Ajax, Flash and
PDF, as well as common audio and video formats.
     
    Adoption
of Adobe AIR has been substantial in its first six months of availability in
fiscal 2008.  As of January 2009, there were more than 100 million AIR
installations along with more than one million downloads of the AIR SDK
developer tools used to create these applications.  Companies such as
eBay, DirecTV, The NASDAQ Stock Market, FOX News, Salesforce.com, The New York
Times, AOL, Atlantic Records and the BBC have already deployed commercial
applications based on Adobe AIR.
     
    Our
Platform team also focuses on the development and delivery of our developer
solutions such as Flex Builder and ColdFusion. These solutions ensure reliable,
secure and rich application experiences across the broadest range of browsers,
operating systems and devices.
     
    Our Flex
Builder integrated development environment (“IDE”) is used by developers to
create and deploy rich browser and Adobe AIR based applications.  With
the robust IDE of Flex Builder, as well as comprehensive charting tools and
components, we believe it is the most efficient means for developers to create
RIAs that deploy seamlessly across all browsers and operating
systems.  With the release of Adobe AIR version 1 in early 2008, our
Flex Builder revenue grew during the year as more developers utilized it to
create Adobe Flash and Adobe AIR based applications.
     
    Our
ColdFusion product line provides fast and easy ways to build and deploy powerful
Internet applications. Developers can extend or integrate ColdFusion with Java
or .NET applications, connect to enterprise data and applications, create and
interact via Web services, or interface with SMS on mobile devices or instant
messaging clients. ColdFusion can also be used for business reporting,
rich-forms generation, printable document generation, full-text search and
graphing and charting—enabling customers to more fully engage their constituents
with better Web experiences.  In fiscal 2008, our ColdFusion business
continued to perform well through revenue generated from its existing customer
base that benefits from a large and active developer community.
     
    Platform
Strategy
     
    In fiscal
2009, we intend to innovate with and broadly market the Adobe Flash Platform to
further the development of products and solutions that improve how businesses
engage with their customers and employees.  As part of this strategy,
we intend to release new versions of our client technologies, including enhanced
versions that broaden our reach on more mobile devices ranging from high-end
smart phones to lower-end feature phones.  We also intend to release
new versions of our Adobe AIR client to broaden its capabilities and we intend
to release new versions of Adobe Flex and Adobe Flex Builder to
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        19
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    improve
developer productivity.  We also recently announced and intend to
release Adobe Flash Catalyst, a new professional design tool for rapidly
creating application interfaces and interactive content without having to write
or understand programming code which we believe will substantially improve
design and development workflows.
     
    As part
of the Open Screen Project, we have announced that we are removing the OEM
licensing fees associated with our Adobe Flash Platform client technologies for
mobile and consumer electronic devices with the next major release of these
technologies which will adversely impact the revenue run rate for our mobile
client technologies in fiscal 2009.
     
    We intend
to build upon the OEM relationships we have to monetize the downloads of our
client technologies such as Adobe Flash Player, Adobe Reader and Adobe
AIR.  By leveraging our developer engineering, marketing and
evangelism capabilities, we intend to implement business models which balance
our objectives of broad cross-platform client proliferation with this client
monetization strategy.
     
    To
support our Adobe Flash Platform initiatives, we intend to continue our
marketing efforts through developer community outreach and grassroots
evangelism.  We will also work closely with partners to implement
Adobe AIR client distribution relationships and continue to grow the Flex
developer base, and we will assist partners and customers who will be developing
key applications that utilize the Adobe Flash Platform.
     
    We intend
to continue our focus in improving integration of our Platform technologies with
our Creative Suite solutions so that products such as Adobe Dreamweaver are able
to provide development tools for Adobe AIR applications and products such as
Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Fireworks are able to integrate
with the Adobe Flash Platform more granularly through defined workflows with
Adobe Flash Catalyst and Adobe Flex Builder.
     
    Finally,
we intend to deliver new product capabilities and Web-based
services.  We will also continue to explore monetization opportunities
for our technology platform solutions, as well as enhance our ColdFusion product
line and drive upgrades with a new release.
     
    Platform
Products
     
    Adobe
AIR—desktop client software which allows developers to use existing Web
development skills (e.g. HTML, Ajax, Flash and Flex) to build and deploy RIAs on
the desktop and on non-PC devices.
     
    Adobe
ColdFusion—provides a server-scripting environment and a set of features used by
organizations for building database-driven scalable applications that are
accessible through Web browsers, Adobe Flash Player and Adobe AIR; built on an
open Java technology architecture and can be deployed on third-party Java
application servers that support the J2EE specification.
     
    Adobe
Flash Catalyst – an interaction design tool for prototyping RIAs and enabling
design and development workflows throughout the application development
cycle.
     
    Adobe
Flash Lite –client software used in a wide range of non-PC devices including
mobile phones and consumer electronic devices; provides a subset of Adobe Flash
Player functionality for viewing FLV files in mobile and device
browsers.
     
    Adobe
Flash Player—the most widely distributed rich client software on PCs and
consumer electronic devices, Adobe Flash Player provides a runtime environment
for text, graphics, animations, sound, video, application forms and two-way
communications.
     
    Adobe
Flex—a free, open source framework, compiler and debugger for developing RIAs
targeting the Adobe Flash Platform; developers use Flex to compile and debug
MXML and ActionScript files into the SWF format that executes in Adobe Flash
Player and Adobe AIR.
     
    Adobe
Flex Builder—an Eclipse-based IDE for developing RIAs with the Adobe Flex
framework for either Adobe Flash Player or Adobe AIR; developers utilize Flex
Builder to quickly build and deploy applications that are expressive, intuitive
and rich in interactivity.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        20
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Print
and Publishing Segment
     
    Our Print
and Publishing business segment contains several of our products and services
which address market opportunities ranging from the diverse publishing needs of
technical and business publishing to our legacy type and OEM printing
businesses.  These opportunities and the products we offer to address
them, are reviewed below in the following OEM PostScript and Print and
Publishing categories.
     
    OEM
PostScript Opportunity and Strategy
     
    Graphics
professionals and professional publishers require quality, reliability and
efficiency in production printing, and we believe our printing technology
provides advanced functional­ity to meet the sophisticated requirements of
this marketplace. As high-end printing systems evolve and transition to fully
digital, composite workflows, we believe we are uniquely positioned to be a
supplier of software and technology based on the Adobe PostScript and Adobe PDF
standards for use by this industry. We generate revenue by licensing our
technology to OEMs that manufacture workflow software, printers and other output
devices.
     
    In fiscal
2008, we maintained our OEM PostScript revenue through continued innovation with
PostScript technologies.  In 2009, we plan to continue to enhance
PostScript and, along with PDF enhancements, establish PDF as the standard for
variable data publishing and printing work flows.
     
    OEM
PostScript Products
     
    Adobe
PostScript—a printing and imaging page description language that delivers high
quality output, cross-platform compatibility and top performance for
graphically-rich printing output from corporate desktop printers to high-end
publishing printers; gives users the power to create and print visually rich
documents with total precision; licensed to printing equipment and workflow
software manufacturers for integration into their printing
products.
     
    Adobe PDF
Print Engine—a new, next-generation printing platform that enables complete,
end-to-end PDF-based workflows using common PDF technology to generate, preview
and print PDF documents; allows PDF documents to be rendered natively throughout
a workflow, providing performance benefits which include eliminating the need to
flatten transparent artwork.
     
    Print
and Publishing Opportunity and Strategy
     
    In
addition to the market opportunities and our businesses discussed previously, we
offer a variety of products and solutions which address many different and
unique publishing market needs. Our Print and Publishing Business Unit focuses
on these solutions which address the diverse customer needs in markets such as
technical document publishing and communication, business document publishing,
CD-ROM publishing, eLearning solutions, on-line help systems and
typography.
     
    In fiscal
2009, we will continue to support these offerings to meet the diverse needs of
each product’s user base.  In addition, we believe there to be an
opportunity to enhance some of our offerings, particularly in the technical
communication and eLearning markets, through a comprehensive offering of several
of our products to provide a complete end-to-end solution.
     
    Print
and Publishing Products
     
    Adobe
Authorware—a legacy rich media authoring tool used to develop caption based
eLearning on Windows and Macintosh based platforms; use of the product ranges
from creating Web-based tutorials to simulations incorporating audio and video;
applications developed with Adobe Authorware can be delivered on the Web, over
corporate networks or on CD-ROM.
     
    Adobe
Captivate—enables users to rapidly create professional and engaging eLearning
content –  including software simulation, quizzes, animation and
multi-media – and deliver the content in Adobe Flash and other formats; the
content can be created without any programming or multi-media skills and can be
published to CD/DVDs and Learning Management Systems used in training, sales,
marketing and  customer support applications; often used in
combination with Acrobat
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        21
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Connect,
Adobe Captivate provides a robust technology solution to bring understanding and
retention to end users of rapid training and eLearning solutions.
     
    Adobe
Contribute—an easy-to-use tool to update and publish Web content, designed for
non-technical business users who need to make minor changes to intranet and
Internet Web sites that conform to the structure, style, layout and site
standards setup by a Web site administrator; streamlines the Web content
maintenance process and provides Web site administrators with a set of simple
content management functionality to manage and administer Web sites; also
provides bloggers with a simple tool to create and update their
blogs.
     
    Adobe
Director—a tool for creating professional multimedia content that combines
images, text, audio and video into presentations, interactive experiences and
prototypes; for Web sites, it provides users with the ability to deliver
multimedia content that supports three dimensional content and animations for
use in various markets, including education, games and commerce; also enables
the creation of fixed-media content for CD titles and DVD titles in the
entertainment, education and corporate training markets.
     
    Adobe
Font Folio OpenType Edition—contains more than 2,200 typefaces from the Adobe
Type Library in OpenType format, offering a complete type solution for print,
the Web, digital video or electronic documents.
     
    Adobe
FrameMaker—an application for authoring and publishing long, structured,
content-rich docu­ments including books, documentation, technical manuals
and reports; provides users a way to publish their content to multiple output
formats, including print, Adobe PDF, HTML, XML and Microsoft Word.
     
    Adobe
JRun—a legacy application server solution based on the J2EE specification;
integrates with our development tool offerings and is used to deploy
applications for functions such as online banking and customer
service.
     
    Adobe
PageMaker—software used to create high-quality documents simply and reliably
with robust page layout tools, templates and stock art.
     
    Adobe
RoboHelp—an easy-to-use authoring tool used by developers and technical writers
to create professional help systems and documentation for desktop and Web-based
applications; utilizes support for HTML, PDF import/export, team authoring
capabilities, as well as JavaHelp.
     
    Adobe
Shockwave Player—a rich media player used for deploying multimedia content for
use in Internet solutions including education, training, games and
commerce.
     
    Adobe
Technical Communication Suite—includes Adobe Acrobat Pro Extended, Adobe
Captivate, Adobe FrameMaker and Adobe RoboHelp technologies; helps customers
improve their workflows, especially technical communicators who want a single
solution to meet their content creation and publishing needs.
     
    Adobe
Type Library—includes Adobe’s best-selling typefaces, plus Adobe Type Manager;
makes it easy to create beautiful text for print, Web and video
projects.
     
    Adobe
Type Classics for Learning—a low-cost, introductory font library designed for
students and educators.
     
    Adobe
Type Manager—provides powerful, easy management of all PostScript Type 1,
OpenType and TrueType fonts.
     
    Adobe
Type Sets—various collection packages of Adobe’s best-selling typefaces; makes
it easy to create beautiful text for print, Web and video projects.
     
    FreeHand
MX—a professional vector graphics tool designers and illustrators use to create
high quality images that can be scaled; supports developing images for print,
the Web and Adobe Flash Player.
     
    See
Note 19 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information regarding our industry segments and geographic
information.
     
    
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        22
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    COMPETITION
     
    The
markets for our products are characterized by intense competition, evolving
industry standards and business models, disruptive software and hardware
technology developments, frequent new product introductions, short product life
cycles, price cutting with resulting downward pressure on gross margins and
price sensitivity on the part of consumers. Our future success will depend on
our ability to enhance our existing products, introduce new products on a timely
and cost-effective basis, meet changing customer needs, extend our core
technology into new applications and anticipate and respond to emerging
standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological
changes.
     
    Creative
Solutions
     
    In our
Creative Solutions segment, we offer the Adobe Creative Suite in multiple
editions which consist of combinations of several of our
technologies.  In addition to offering the technologies within the
Creative Suite editions, we also offer them as individual software
applications.  These products compete with those from many companies,
including Apple, Corel, Avid, Quark, Microsoft and others, as well as from
various open source initiatives.
     
    With
respect to Microsoft, their Expression Studio competes with our Adobe Creative
Suite family of products as well as individual Creative Solutions segment
products. Expression Studio includes Microsoft Expression Design which competes
with our Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Photoshop Lightroom and Adobe
Fireworks products; Microsoft Expression Blend which competes with our Adobe
Flash Professional product; Microsoft Expression Web which competes with our
Adobe Dreamweaver product; and Microsoft Expression Media which provides digital
asset management, basic image editing and video encoding/compression
capabilities and competes with some aspects of our video and hobbyist-focused
products. To compete with Adobe Flash, Microsoft markets its Silverlight product
and technology which provides capabilities for the creation of media experiences
and interactive applications for the Web that incorporate video, animation,
interactivity and user interfaces.
     
    We
believe our Adobe Creative Suite family of products competes favor­ably on
the basis of features and functionality, ease of use, product reliability, price
and performance characteristics. The individual technologies within the Creative
Suite editions also work well together, providing broader functionality and
shortened product training time for the individual who uses multiple
appli­cations to complete a project.
     
    We also
believe our individual Creative products compete favorably against those offered
by our competitors, as discussed below.
     
    Drawing
and illustration products are characterized by feature-rich competition, brand
awareness and price sensitivity. In addition to competition with Microsoft’s
Expression Design product, our Adobe Illustrator product faces competition from
companies such as ACDsee, Corel, Mediascape, Xara and the open source product
called Karbon14. We believe our products compete favorably due to high awareness
of their rich features, especially the drawing and illustration functionalities,
the technical capabilities of the product and our ability to leverage core
technologies from our other established products.
     
    The
demand for Web page layout and Web content creation tools is constantly evolving
and highly volatile. In addition to competition with Microsoft’s Expression
Blend and Web products, we believe Adobe Dreamweaver and Adobe Flash
Professional face direct and indirect competition from desktop software
companies such as Bare Bones Software and various proprietary and open source
Web authoring tools. We also face competition from Ajax and Microsoft Visual
Studio products, and other integrated development environments that enable
developers to create Web applications from companies such as BEA Systems (a
subsidiary of Oracle), Borland and IBM. We believe our products compare
favorably to these applications; however, our market share may be constrained by
Microsoft’s ability to target its Web software to users in markets it dominates.
These target customers include users of Microsoft Office, Microsoft Windows
operating system, the Microsoft Internet Explorer Web browser and Microsoft
Visual Studio.
     
    The needs
of digital imaging and video editing software users are constantly evolving due
to rapid technology and hardware advancements in digital cameras, digital video
cameras, printers, personal computers, cellular phones and other new devices.
Our software offerings, including Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Photoshop Extended,
Adobe Photoshop Elements, Adobe Photoshop Lightroom, Adobe After Effects, Adobe
Audition, Adobe Soundbooth, Adobe Encore, Adobe Premiere Elements and Adobe
Premiere Pro, face competition from companies offering similar products. We also
continue to face competition from new emerging products, including online based
services which compete directly with our Photoshop.com,
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        23
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Photoshop
Express and Premiere Express offerings, as well as any new competitive products
coming from the open source movement.
     
    Our
mid-range consumer offerings, including Adobe Photoshop Elements and Adobe
Premiere Elements, are subject to intense competition, including customer price
sensitivity, competitor brand awareness and competitor strength in OEM bundling
and retail distribution. We face direct and indirect competition from a number
of companies that market software which competes with ours, including ACD
Systems, AI Soft (Japan), Apple, ArcSoft, Corel, i4 (Japan), Google, Kodak, Nova
Development, Magix, Microsoft, Phase One, Photodex Corporation, Sonic, Pinnacle,
Sony and Yahoo. In addition, we face competition from device, hardware and
camera manufacturers such as Apple, Canon, Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Nikon, Sony
and others as they try to differentiate their offerings by bundling, for free,
their own digital imaging software, or those of our competitors. Similarly, we
face potential competition from operating system manufacturers such as Apple and
Microsoft as they integrate hobbyist-level digital imaging and image management
features into their operating systems. Finally, we face potential competition
from open source products, including Gimp for Linux.
     
    We
believe we compete favorably against other mid-range digital imaging, digital
video and consumer-focused image management software applications with our Adobe
Photoshop Elements and Adobe Premiere Elements products due to strong consumer
awareness of our brand in digital imaging and digital video, our relationships
with significant OEMs, positive recommendations for our products by market
influencers, our increased focus on the retail software channel and strong
feature sets.
     
    In
professional digital imaging, software applications compete based on product
features, brand awareness and price sensitivity. In addition to competition with
Microsoft’s Expression Design product, our Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Photoshop
Lightroom products face direct and indirect competition from a number of
companies including Apple and Corel. Our Adobe Photoshop products compete
favorably due to high awareness of the Photoshop brand in digital imaging, the
positive recommendations for our Photoshop product by market influencers, the
features and technical capabilities of the product and our ability to leverage
core features from our other established products.
     
    Our Adobe
InDesign product, used for professional page layout, faces significant
competition. The main competitor, Quark, has a competitive product, Quark
XPress, which has maintained a historically strong market share in the
professional page layout market. Quark also benefits from an established
industry infrastructure that has been built around the use of their XPress
product in print shops and service bureaus, and through the development of
third-party plug-in products. Barriers to the adoption of Adobe InDesign by
Quark XPress customers include this infrastructure, as well as the cost of
conversion, training and software/hardware procurement required to switch to
InDesign. We have seen an increase in the adoption of InDesign software and
we believe we will continue to see market share gains going forward due to a
product offering that contains new innovative features, improved integration
with our other products, our strong brand among users, positive reviews by
industry experts, adoption of InDesign by major accounts which are influencers
in their industries and improved infrastructure support by the industry for our
overall solution.
     
    Applications
for digital video editing, motion graphics, special effects, audio creation and
DVD authoring face increasing competition as video professionals and hobbyists
migrate away from analog video and audio tools towards the use of digital
camcorders and digital video production on their computers and DVD systems for
rich media playback. Our Adobe After Effects, Adobe Audition, Adobe
Encore,  Adobe Premiere Pro and Adobe Soundbooth software products, as
well as the Adobe Production Studio which contains these products, face
competition from companies such as Apple, Avid, Canopus, Sonic and Sony. Our
Adobe Premiere Elements software product which is targeted for use by hobbyists,
faces competition from companies such as Aist, Apple, ArcSoft, Avid, Broderbund,
Corel, Cyberlink, Magix, Microsoft, Muvee and Sony – as well as video editing
capabilities found in operating systems and other video editing solutions
bundled by video camcorder manufacturers with their hardware
offerings.
     
    Adobe
After Effects is a leader in professional compositing and visual effects due to
its strong feature set and its integration with our other products that helps
create a broad video editing platform for our customers. In professional digital
video editing, we are an industry leader with Adobe Premiere Pro and compete
favorably due to our strong feature set, our OEM relationships and the
integration with our other products to create a broad digital video publishing
platform for our customers.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        24
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Business
Productivity Solutions
     
    With our
Adobe Acrobat business, we continue to face competition from Microsoft. Their
Windows Vista operating system includes a proprietary digital rights management
technology and a document format, called XML Paper Specification (“XPS”), which
competes with Adobe PDF. In addition, Microsoft’s widely used Office product
offers a feature to save Microsoft Office documents as PDF documents through a
freely distributed plug-in. This PDF feature in Office competes with Adobe
Acrobat. Microsoft has announced that it will add support for PDF directly in
its Office products beginning in 2009 via SP2 for Office 2007. Given Microsoft’s
market dominance, XPS, the PDF feature in Office and any other competitive
Microsoft product or technology that is bundled as part of its Office product or
operating system or made freely available, could harm our overall Adobe Acrobat
market opportunity.
     
    Our Adobe
Acrobat product family also faces competition in the PDF file creation market
from many clone products marketed by companies such as AdLib, Active PDF, Apple,
Global Graphics, Nuance, Software995, Sourcenext and others. In addition, other
PDF creation solutions can be found at a low cost, or for free, on the
Web.
     
    For
customers that use Adobe Acrobat as part of document collaboration and document
process management solutions, where electronic document delivery, exchange,
collaboration, security and archival needs exist, our Acrobat product family
faces compe­tition from entrenched office applications such as Microsoft
Office and its integration with their SharePoint product. In the higher end of
the electronic document market, Acrobat Pro and Acrobat Pro Extended provide
features which compete with other creative professional PDF tool providers, such
as Enfocus, Dalim and Zinio. In addition, we are targeting the architecture,
engineering and construction electronic document collaboration market with our
Acrobat Pro Extended product. The capabilities of our product in this market
compete with some aspects of Autodesk’s 3D solution.
     
    To
address the threats from Microsoft and others, we are working to ensure our
Adobe Acrobat applications stay at the forefront of innovation in emerging
opportunities such as PDF document generation, document collaboration and
document process management.
     
    Our Web
conferencing solution, Adobe Acrobat Connect Pro, faces competition from many
Web conferencing vendors, including Cisco WebEx, Microsoft Office Live Meeting,
IBM Lotus Sametime and Citrix GoToMeeting. Cisco WebEx is a market share leader
and Microsoft has steadily increased its marketing of Microsoft Office Live
Meeting. To address these and other smaller competitors in the Web conferencing
space, we focus on providing a differentiated and enhanced user experience
through our Adobe Flash Player.
     
    The
markets we address with our Adobe LiveCycle Enterprise Suite are influenced by
evolving industry standards, rapid software and hardware technology
developments, and new product introductions from competitors such as Microsoft
and IBM.
     
    Microsoft
has already brought to market new products and technologies to address many of
the emerging market needs we focus on with our Adobe LiveCycle family of
products. Microsoft continues to offer its eForms solution called InfoPath in
the Professional version of Microsoft Office 2007 and has added Office Forms
Services which extends their forms to users as MS Outlook e-mail messages or to
Web browsers rather than the InfoPath client.  They also continue to
offer their Windows Rights Management Services in their Windows Server product
which is designed to allow corporate networks to manage and enforce restrictions
built into documents.
     
    As
discussed previously, Microsoft markets Windows Vista and Office which includes
a document format called XPS which competes with Adobe PDF. Windows Vista also
contains a proprietary digital rights management technology which competes with
Adobe LiveCycle Rights Management ES. In addition, Microsoft’s most recent
version of Office includes an updated version of its SharePoint product which
competes with certain aspects of our Adobe LiveCycle products. Microsoft has
also recently delivered technology called Windows Presentation Foundation and
Silverlight which offers an alternative to building RIA applications within the
Microsoft .NET framework.
     
    In the
electronic forms solution market, in addition to competition from Microsoft
Infopath based solutions, we face competition from IBM through their eForms
solution recently rebranded as Lotus Workplace Forms. Similarly, we face
competition for document process management solutions from workflow solution
vendors such as PegaSystems, Lombardi, Nuance and Ultimus.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        25
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    We
believe that our Adobe LiveCycle server product family competes favorably
against these companies and formats in terms of the combined benefits of
superior functionality, cross-platform visual page fidelity/reliability,
multi-platform capability, file compression, printing and security of documents
expressed using Adobe PDF. We also believe that Adobe PDF and its integration
with XML, combined with the broad distribution of Adobe Reader on all leading
hardware platforms, provide a universal multi-platform solution that is more
compelling than our competitors’ offerings.
     
    Platform
     
    Our Adobe
Flash Platform technologies, including Adobe Flash Player and Adobe AIR, face
competition from Microsoft Silverlight, as well as alternative approaches to
building RIAs – including Google Gears and JavaFX.  Our Adobe
ColdFusion product family and our Adobe Flex Builder developer tool products
face competition from major vendors including Microsoft, IBM, BEA (a subsidiary
of Oracle) and Sun. Our ColdFusion products also compete with several
technologies available today at no cost including the PHP and PERL programming
environments that are available for the Apache Web server.
     
    Beyond
the competitive Microsoft threats previously discussed, vendors such as Tibco,
JackBe, Backbase and NexaWeb offer potentially competitive solutions in the RIA
market that we target with our open source Adobe Flex solution.  We
also believe RIAs will make use of both open source Ajax frameworks and the open
source Flex framework to create hybrid RIAs in the browser, and we anticipate
increased adoption of AIR as a development platform for Ajax developers. With
our Flash Media Server solution, we face competition from Microsoft with their
Windows Media Server for Windows Media and Silverlight, as well as Move
Networks, Real Networks, Apple and solutions which utilize HTTP delivery of
video and rich media content via Web servers.
     
    Our
mobile and device solutions are influenced by evolving industry standards, rapid
software and hardware technology developments and frequent new product and
technology introductions by companies or open-source initiatives targeting
similar opportunities. Technologies and products which could compete with Adobe
Flash Lite include Java, Brew, Scalable Vector Graphics, Wireless Application
Protocol, Apple Mac OS utilized on the Apple iPhone, Microsoft Windows Mobile,
as well as solutions from the open source movement, vendors supplying clone
versions of these products and technologies and vendors which choose to exclude
the use of our solutions and technologies on their devices.
     
    We
believe our Adobe Flash Lite solution competes favorably against these
technologies and solutions due to the distribution of Adobe Flash Player
technology on a broad set of platforms, including PCs, cellular phones and
consumer electronic devices.  We also believe our robust programming
model and developer tools used to create video output for the Flash Player and
the large Flash developer community and ecosystem which utilize our tools, are
key assets in our ability to effectively compete in this
market.  Further, the rich expressiveness of Flash which provides the
capability to deliver audio, video, motion graphics, vector graphics and visual
effects and results in rich user experiences and interfaces on mobile devices,
is a key differentiation when compared to the capabilities of alternate
solutions.
     
    In the
past year, the mobile industry experienced many announcements and introductions
of new mobile devices and platforms – and we expect innovation and new
announcements such as those seen in 2008 to continue in 2009.  We view
these ongoing developments, including the Google Android project consisting of a
group of more than 30 technology and mobile companies that are working to
develop an open mobile platform, as new opportunities to deploy our technologies
and solutions.  Just as we maintain a philosophy of cross-platform
support in the personal computer desktop world for operating systems such as
Microsoft Windows, Apple Mac OS, Unix and Linux, we expect to continue to
enhance our support for a wide variety of mobile and consumer electronic
platforms, and we intend to make our products and services available on viable,
new entrant platforms as well.
     
    Print
and Publishing
     
    Our Print
and Publishing product line targets many markets. In technical authoring and
publishing, our Adobe FrameMaker product faces competition from large-scale
electronic publishing systems, XML-based publishing companies such as PTC, as
well as lower-end desktop publishing products such as Microsoft Word.
Competition is based on the quality and features of products, the level of
customization and integration with other publishing system components, the
number of hard­ware platforms supported, service and price. We believe we
can successfully compete based upon the quality and features of the Adobe
FrameMaker product and our extensive application programming
interface.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        26
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    In
desktop publishing, our Adobe PageMaker product faces competition from other
software products, including Microsoft Publisher. Competition is based on
the quality and features of products, ease-of-use, printer service support and
price. We believe we have a strong product and can successfully compete with
these types of applications based upon the quality and features of the Adobe
PageMaker product, its strong brand among users and its widespread adoption
among printer service bureaus.
     
    In
printing technologies, we believe the principal competitive factors for OEMs in
selecting a page description language or a printing technology are product
capabilities, market leadership, reliability, price, support and
engi­neering development assistance. We believe that our competitive
advantages include our technology competency, OEM customer relationships and our
intellectual property portfolio. Adobe PostScript faces competition from
Hewlett-Packard’s proprietary PCL page description language and from developers
of other page description languages based on the Post­Script language
standard, including Global Graphics and Xionics. In addition, as previously
discussed, Microsoft has shipped its next generation operating system called
Windows Vista. It includes a new document format called XPS which competes with
Adobe PDF and our Adobe PostScript technologies and solutions.
     
    In the
rapid eLearning authoring market, our Adobe Captivate product faces competition
from general content development tools such as Microsoft PowerPoint, screen
recording tools such as Techsmith’s Camtasia and more advanced eLearning and
software simulation solutions such as Firefly, Lectora and Articulate.
Competition in this market is based on speed of development and completeness of
the features of products, ease-of-use and price. We believe our product can
successfully compete based upon the strength of its broad range of features, its
strong brand among users and its widespread adoption among training
developers.
     
    In Web
content management, our Adobe Contribute product faces competition from
solutions that provide for the simple creation of blogs and “Wikis,” as well as
basic content publishing products such as Microsoft Word, Microsoft FrontPage,
Microsoft Notepad, basic HTML editors like ezHTMLArea and ekTron, content
management tools like Microsoft SharePoint and, large-scale Web content
management systems from companies such as Interwoven, Vignette, IBM and Oracle.
Competition in this market is based on usability, quality and features of
products, the level of customization and integration with other Web content
management components, the integration with Web design tools, the number of
hardware platforms supported, service and price. We believe we can successfully
compete based upon the usability and price of Adobe Contribute, its strong brand
among users and integration with other Web content management
components.
     
    In
multimedia content authoring, our Adobe Director product faces competition from
a variety of multimedia content authoring tools. Competition is based on the
quality and features of products, ease-of-use and price. We believe we have a
strong product and can successfully compete based upon the quality and features
of the Adobe Director product, its strong brand among users, its widespread
adoption among content developers and publishers and the widespread
proliferation of the Shockwave Player.
     
    In
technical Web authoring and publishing, our Adobe RoboHelp product faces
competition from large-scale Web publishing systems, XML-based Web publishing
companies, as well as lower-end publishing products such as Microsoft Word.
Competition is based on the quality and features of products, the level of
customization and integration with other publishing system components, the
number of hardware platforms supported, service and price. We believe we can
successfully compete based upon the quality and features of the Adobe RoboHelp
product.
     
    OPERATIONS
     
    Marketing
and Sales 
     
    We market
and distribute our products through sales channels, which include distributors,
retailers, software developers, systems integrators, ISVs and VARs, as well as
through OEM and hardware bundle customers. We also market and license our
products directly using our sales force and through our own Web site at
www.adobe.com.
     
    We
support our worldwide distribution network and end user customers with
international offices around the world, including locations in Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, the Netherlands,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia,  Singapore, South Africa,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey and the United Kingdom.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        27
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    We also
license software with maintenance and support, which includes rights to
upgrades, when and if available, support, updates and enhancements.
     
    The table
below lists our significant customers, as a percentage of net revenue for fiscal
2006 through 2008. As listed, our significant customers are distributors who
sell products across our various segments.
     
    
      
          
             
      
            
              2008
            
             
      
            
              2007
            
             
      
            
              2006
            
          
          
            
              Ingram
      Micro
            
            
              18
            
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              21
            
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              24
            
            
              %
            
          
          
            
              Tech
      Data
            
            
              9
            
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              10
            
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              10
            
            
              %
            
          
      
    
     
    Receivables
from our significant distributors, as a percentage of gross trade receivables
for fiscal 2008 and 2007 are as follows:
     
    
      
          
             
      
            
              2008
            
             
      
            
              2007
            
          
          
            
              Ingram
      Micro
            
            
              18
            
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              19
            
            
              %
            
          
          
            
              Tech
      Data
            
            
              8
            
            
              %
            
             
      
            
              10
            
            
              %
            
          
      
    
     
    Order
Fulfillment for Physical Distribution
     
    The
procurement of the various components of packaged products, including CDs and
printed materials, and the assembly of packages for retail and other
applications products is controlled by our Global Supply Chain Management
operations. We outsource our order fulfillment activities to third parties in
the United States, Europe and Asia.
     
    To date,
we have not experienced significant difficulties in obtaining raw materials for
the manufacture of our products or in the replication of CDs, printing and
assembly of components. The backlog of orders from customers, as of January 16,
2009 and January 18, 2008, was approximately $6.4 million and $13.8 million,
respectively. 
     
    Services
and Support 
     
    We
provide professional services, technical support and customer service to a wide
variety of customers including consumers, creative professionals and business
users. Our service and support revenue consists primarily of consulting fees,
software maintenance and support fees and training fees.
     
    Services
     
    We have a
global Professional Services team dedicated to developing and implementing
solutions for enterprise customers in key vertical markets and to transfer
technical expertise to our solution partners. The Professional Services team
uses a comprehensive, customer-focused methodology to develop high quality
solutions, which in turn deliver a competitive advantage to our enterprise
customers. A portfolio of technical training courses is also available for
desktop and server-based products to meet the needs of our enterprise customers
and solution partners.
     
    Support
     
    A
significant portion of our support revenue is composed of our extended
enterprise maintenance and support offerings, which entitles customers to the
right to receive product upgrades and enhancements during the term of the
maintenance and support period, which is typically one year. Regional Support
Centers are charged with providing timely, high quality technical expertise on
Enterprise and Knowledge Worker products and solutions to meet the growing needs
of our customers.
     
    Our
support revenue also includes support for our desktop products. We offer a range
of support programs, from fee-based incidents to annual support contracts.
Additionally, we provide extensive self-help and online technical support
capabilities via the Web which allows customers quick and easy access to
possible solutions. We provide product support through a combination of
outsourced vendors and internal support centers.
     
    We also
offer Developer Support to partners and developer organizations. The Adobe
Partner Connection Program focuses on providing developers with high-quality
tools, software development kits, information and services.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        28
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    As a
registered owner of the current version of an Adobe desktop product, customers
are eligible to receive Getting Started support on certain matters. Support for
some products and in some countries may vary.
     
    Training
     
    We inform
customers about the use of our products through on-line informational services
on our Web site (www.adobe.com) and through a growing series of how to books
published by Adobe Press pursuant to a joint publishing agreement with Peachpit
Press. In addition, we develop tests to certify independent trainers who teach
Adobe software classes. We sponsor workshops, work with professional
associations and user groups, and conduct regular beta testing
programs.
     
    Investments
     
    We own a
limited partnership interest in Adobe Ventures IV L.P. (“Adobe Ventures”) that
has invested in early stage companies with innovative technologies. We also make
direct investments in privately-held companies. We enter into these investments
with the intent of securing financial returns as well as for strategic purposes
as they often increase our knowledge of emerging markets and technologies, as
well as expand our opportunities to provide Adobe products and services. Adobe
Ventures is managed by Granite Ventures, an independent venture capital firm and
sole general partner of Adobe Ventures.
     
    As
previously disclosed, we plan to invest $100.0 million directly in venture
capital, of which, approximately $33.5 million has already been invested. We
expect the remaining balance will be invested over the next three to five
years.
     
    PRODUCT
DEVELOPMENT 
     
    As the
software industry is characterized by rapid technological change, a continuous
high level of investment is required for the enhancement of existing products
and services and the development of new products and services. We develop our
software internally as well as acquire products or technology developed by
others by purchasing the stock or assets of the business entity that held
ownership rights to the technology. In other instances, we have licensed or
purchased the intellectual property ownership rights of programs developed by
others with license or technology transfer agreements that may obligate us to
pay a flat license fee or royalties, typically based on a dollar amount per unit
shipped or a percentage of the revenue generated by those programs.
     
    During
fiscal years ended November 28, 2008, November 30, 2007 and December 1, 2006,
our research and development expenses were $662.1 million, $613.2 million and
$539.7 million, respectively.
     
    PRODUCT
PROTECTION 
     
    We regard
our software as proprietary and protect it under the laws of copyrights,
patents, trademarks and trade secrets. We protect the source code of our
software programs as trade secrets and make source code available to third
parties only under limited circumstances and specific security and
confidentiality constraints.
     
    Our
products are generally licensed to end users on a “right to use” basis pursuant
to a license that restricts the use of the products to a designated number of
devices. We also rely on copyright laws and on “shrink wrap” and electronic
licenses that are not physically signed by the end user. Copyright protection
may be unavailable under the laws of certain countries and the enforceability of
“shrink wrap” and electronic licenses has not been conclusively determined in
all jurisdictions.
     
    Policing
unauthorized use of computer software is difficult and software piracy is a
persistent problem for the software industry. This problem is particularly acute
in international markets. We conduct vigorous anti-piracy programs directly and
through certain external software associations. In addition, we have activation
technology in certain products to guard against illegal use and will continue to
do so in certain future products.
     
    EMPLOYEES  
     
    As of
January 16, 2009, we employed 7,335 people. We have not experienced work
stoppages and believe our employee relations are good.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        29
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    AVAILABLE
INFORMATION
     
    Our
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a)
and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free
of charge on our Investor Relations Web site at www.adobe.com as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
furnish it to, the SEC. The information posted on our Web site is not
incorporated into this report. 
     
    EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS 
     
    Adobe’s
executive officers as of January 16, 2009 are as follows:
     
    
      
          
            
              Name
            
             
      
            
              Age
            
             
      
            
              Positions
            
          
          
            
              Shantanu
      Narayen
            
             
      
            
              45
            
             
      
            
              President
      and Chief Executive Officer
            
          
          
            
              Mark
      Garrett
            
             
      
            
              51
            
             
      
            
              Executive
      Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
            
          
          
            
              Karen O. Cottle
            
             
      
            
              59
            
             
      
            
              Senior
      Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
            
          
          
            
              Kevin
      Lynch
            
             
      
            
              42
            
             
      
            
              Senior
      Vice President, Chief Technology Officer
            
          
          
            
              Johnny
      Loiacono
            
             
      
            
              47
            
             
      
            
              Senior
      Vice President, Creative Solutions Business Unit
            
          
          
            
              Rob
      Tarkoff
            
             
      
            
              40
            
             
      
            
              Senior
      Vice President, Business Productivity Solutions
            
          
          
            
              Matthew Thompson
            
             
      
            
              50
            
             
      
            
              Senior
      Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations
            
          
          
            
              Richard
      T. Rowley
            
             
      
            
              52
            
             
      
            
              Vice
      President, Principal Accounting
Officer
            
          
      
    
     
    Mr.
Narayen currently serves as Adobe’s President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr.
Narayen joined Adobe in January 1998 as Vice President and General Manager of
Adobe’s engineering technology group. In January 1999, he was promoted to Senior
Vice President, Worldwide Products and in March 2001 he was promoted to
Executive Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing and Development. In
January 2005, Mr. Narayen was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer
and in December 2007, he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Adobe and
joined the Adobe Board of Directors. Prior to joining Adobe, Mr. Narayen
co-founded Pictra Inc., a digital photo sharing software company, in 1996. He
was Director of Desktop and Collaboration products at Silicon Graphics Inc. and
held various senior manager positions at Apple Inc. before founding Pictra. Mr.
Narayen is also a director of Metavante Technologies, Inc., a banking and
payment technology solutions provider.
     
    Mr.
Garrett joined Adobe in February 2007 as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. Mr. Garrett served as Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Software Group of EMC Corporation, a products, services
and solutions provider for information management and storage, from June 2004 to
January 2007, his most recent position since EMC’s acquisition of Documentum,
Inc., an enterprise content management company, in December 2003.
Mr. Garrett first joined Documentum as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer in 1997, holding that position through October 1999 and then
re-joining Documentum as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in
2002. Mr. Garrett is also a director of Informatica Corporation, a provider of
enterprise data integration software and services.
     
    Ms.
Cottle joined Adobe in February 2002 as Senior Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary. Prior to joining Adobe, Ms. Cottle served as General Counsel for
Vitria Technology, Inc., a service-oriented business application software
company from February 2000 to February 2002. From 1996 to 1999, Ms. Cottle
served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Raychem
Corporation.
     
    Mr. Lynch
currently serves as Adobe’s Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President
of the Experience & Technology Organization.  Mr. Lynch joined Adobe as
Chief Software Architect and Senior Vice President for Adobe’s Platform Business
Unit through our acquisition of Macromedia, Inc. in December 2005.  At
Macromedia, Mr. Lynch served as Chief Software Architect and President of
Product Development, where he led Macromedia in advancing Web software
including managing the initial development of Macromedia Dreamweaver and guiding
Flash to its current widespread adoption across the Web. Prior to
Macromedia, Mr. Lynch participated in a variety of technical and management
roles in startups including Frame Technology and General Magic.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        30
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Mr.
Loiacono joined Adobe in April 2006 as Senior Vice President of the Creative
Solutions Business Unit.  Prior to joining Adobe, Mr. Loiacono served
as Executive Vice President of software at Sun Microsystems, Inc., with
responsibility for software technologies including the Solaris operating system,
Java, Java Enterprise System suites, Java developer tools and Star
Office.  Mr. Loiacono joined Sun Microsystems in 1987 and during his
19 year tenure he also served as General Manager of Sun Microsystems’s operating
platform group, as well as Chief Marketing Officer.
     
    Mr.
Tarkoff currently serves as Adobe’s Senior Vice President of Business
Productivity Solutions.  Mr. Tarkoff joined Adobe in April 2007 as
Senior Vice President of Corporate Development.  Prior to joining
Adobe, Mr. Tarkoff was Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Captiva
Software Division and Senior Vice President of Business Development and Channels
for the Software Group of EMC Corporation, a products, services and solutions
provider for information management and storage, from December 2003 to April
2007.  Previously, Mr. Tarkoff was Executive Vice President and Chief
Strategy Officer for Documentum, Inc., an enterprise content management company
and Senior Vice President of Worldwide Business Development at Commerce One, a
provider of business-to-business e-commerce solutions.
     
    Mr.
Thompson joined Adobe in January 2006 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field
Operations. Prior to joining Adobe, Mr. Thompson served as Senior Vice President
of Worldwide Sales at Borland Software Corporation, a software delivery
optimization solutions provider, from October 2003 to December 2006. Prior to
joining Borland, Mr. Thompson was Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Field
Operations for Marimba, Inc., a provider of products and services for software
change and configuration management, from February 2001 to January 2003. From
July 2000 to January 2001, Mr. Thompson was Vice President of Worldwide Sales
for Calico Commerce, Inc., a provider of eBusiness applications. Prior to
joining Calico, Mr. Thompson spent six years at Cadence Design Systems, Inc., a
provider of electronics design technologies. While at Cadence, from January 1998
to June 2000, Mr. Thompson served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and
Field Operations and from April 1994 to January 1998 as Vice President,
Worldwide Professional Services.
     
    Mr.
Rowley joined Adobe in November 2006 as Vice President, Corporate Controller and
Principal Accounting Officer. Prior to joining Adobe, Mr. Rowley served as Vice
President, Corporate Controller, Treasurer and Principal Accounting Officer at
Synopsys, Inc., a semiconductor design software company, from December 2002 to
September 2005 and from 1999 to December 2002, Mr. Rowley served as Vice
President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer. From 1994 to
1999, Mr. Rowley served in several finance-related positions at Synopsys. Mr.
Rowley is a certified public accountant.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        31
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS
     
    As
previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our
forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such
differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. These and
many other factors described in this report could adversely affect our
operations, performance and financial condition.
     
    Adverse
changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major
countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating
results.
     
    As our
business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising
from adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions.
Uncertainty about future economic and political conditions makes it difficult
for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future
investments. For example, the direction and relative strength of the global
economy has recently been increasingly uncertain due to softness in the
residential real estate and mortgage markets, volatility in fuel and other
energy costs, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets,
continuing geopolitical uncertainties and other macroeconomic factors affecting
spending behavior. If economic growth in the United States and other countries’
economies is slowed, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases or
marketing spending. This could result in reductions in sales of our products,
longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price
competition.
     
    The
current global financial crisis affecting the banking system and
financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may
consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the
credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets,
and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity
markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit
crisis on our business, including insolvency of certain of our key
distributors, resellers, OEMs, retailers and systems integrators, ISVs and VARs
(collectively referred to as “distributors”), which could impair our
distribution channels, inability of customers, including our distributors, to
obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, and failure of
derivative counterparties and other financial institutions, which could
negatively impact our treasury operations. Other income and expense could
also vary from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the
sale or exchange of financial instruments, impairment charges related to
investment securities as well as equity and other investments, interest
rates, cash balances, and changes in fair value of derivative instruments.
Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and
financial condition.
     
    Political
instability in any of the major countries we do business in would also likely
harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
     
    If
we cannot continue to develop, market and distribute new products or upgrades to
existing products that meet customer requirements, our operating results could
suffer.
    
    The
process of developing new high technology products and enhancing existing
products is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate
customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could
significantly harm our market share and results of operations. We must make
long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and
commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will
accurately reflect customer demand for our products. Our inability to extend our
core technologies into new applications and new platforms and to anticipate or
respond to technological changes could affect continued market acceptance of our
products and our ability to develop new products. Additionally, any delay in the
development, production, marketing or distribution of a new product or upgrade
to an existing product could cause a decline in our revenue, earnings or stock
price and could harm our competitive position.
     
    We offer
our desktop application-based products primarily on Windows and Macintosh
platforms. We generally offer our server-based products on the Linux platform as
well as the Windows and UNIX platforms. To the extent that there is a slowdown
of customer purchases of personal computers on either the Windows or Macintosh
platform or in general, or to the extent that significant demand arises for our
products or competitive products on the Linux desktop or other platforms before
we choose and are able to offer our products on these platforms our business
could be harmed. Additionally, to the extent that
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        32
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    we have
difficulty transitioning product or version releases to new Windows and
Macintosh operating systems, or to the extent new releases of operating systems
or other third party products make it more difficult for our products to
perform, our business could be harmed.
     
    Introduction
of new products and business models by existing and new competitors could harm
our competitive position and results of operations.
     
    The
markets for our products are characterized by intense competition, evolving
industry standards and business models, disruptive software and hardware
technology developments, frequent new product introductions, short product life
cycles, price cutting, with resulting downward pressure on gross margins, and
price sensitivity on the part of consumers. Our future success will depend on
our ability to enhance our existing products, introduce new products on a timely
and cost-effective basis, meet changing customer needs, extend our core
technology into new applications, and anticipate and respond to emerging
standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological
changes. For example, Microsoft Windows Vista operating system which contains a
fixed document format, XPS, competes with Adobe PDF. Additionally, Microsoft
Office 2007, which offers a feature to save Microsoft Office documents as PDF
files through a freely distributed plug-in, competes with Adobe PDF creation
(Microsoft has announced that it will add support for PDF directly in its Office
products beginning in 2009 via SP2 for Office 2007). Microsoft Expression Studio
competes with our Adobe Creative Suite family of products and Microsoft
Silverlight and Visual Studio, Web development tools for RIAs, compete with
Adobe Flash and Adobe Flex. Google Gears and Sun’s JavaFX, alternative
approaches to building RIAs compete with Adobe Flash and Adobe AIR. Companies,
such as Google, Sun, Apple and Microsoft, may introduce competing software
offerings for free or open source vendors may introduce competitive products. In
addition, recent advances in computing and communications technologies have made
the software as a service (“SaaS”) business model viable. SaaS allows companies
to provide applications, data and related services over the Internet. Providers
use primarily advertising or subscription-based revenue models. We are exploring
the deployment of our own SaaS strategies, but may not be able to develop the
infrastructure and business models as quickly as our competitors. If any of
these competing products or services achieve widespread acceptance, our
operating results could suffer. In addition, consolidation has occurred among
some of the competitors in our markets. Any further consolidations among our
competitors may result in stronger competitors and may therefore harm our
results of operations. For additional information regarding our competition and
the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see
the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1 of this
report.
     
    If
we fail to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets,
our results of operations could be negatively impacted.
     
    We plan
to release numerous new product offerings and employ new software delivery
methods in connection with our transition to new business models. It is
uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful or that we will be able
to develop the infrastructure and business models as quickly as our competitors.
Market acceptance of these new product and service offerings will be dependent
on our ability to include functionality and usability in such releases that
address certain customer requirements with which we have limited prior
experience and operating history. Additionally, customer requirements for open
standards or open source products could impact adoption or use with respect to
some of our products. To the extent we incorrectly estimate customer
requirements for such products or services or if there is a delay in market
acceptance of such products or services, our business could be
harmed.
     
    From time
to time we open source certain of our technology initiatives, provide broader
open access to certain of our technology, such as our Open Screen Project, and
release selected technology for industry standardization. These changes may have
negative revenue implications and make it easier for our competitors to produce
products similar to ours. If we are unable to respond to these competitive
threats, our business could be harmed.
     
    We are
also devoting significant resources to the development of technologies and
service offerings in markets where we have a limited operating history,
including the enterprise, government and mobile and device markets. In the
enterprise and government markets, we intend to increase our focus on vertical
markets such as education, financial services, manufacturing, and the
architecture, engineering and construction markets and horizontal markets such
as training and marketing. These new offerings and markets require a
considerable investment of technical, financial and sales resources,
and
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        33
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    a
scalable organization. Many of our competitors may have advantages over us due
to their larger presence, larger developer network, deeper experience in the
enterprise, government and mobile and device markets, and greater sales and
marketing resources. In the mobile and device markets, our intent is to partner
with device makers, manufacturers and telecommunications carriers to embed our
technology on their platforms, and in the enterprise and government market our
intent is to form strategic alliances with leading enterprise and government
solutions and service providers to provide additional resources to further
enable penetration of such markets. If we are unable to successfully enter into
strategic alliances with device makers, manufacturers, telecommunication
carriers and leading enterprise and government solutions and service providers,
or if they are not as productive as we anticipate, our market penetration may
not proceed as rapidly as we anticipate and our results of operations could be
negatively impacted.
     
    Revenue
from our new businesses may be difficult to predict.
     
    As
previously discussed, we are devoting significant resources to the development
of product and service offerings where we have a limited operating history. This
makes it difficult to predict revenue and revenue may decline quicker than
anticipated. Additionally, we have a limited history of licensing products in
certain markets such as the government and enterprise market and may experience
a number of factors that will make our revenue less predictable, including
longer than expected sales and implementation cycles, decision to open source
certain of our technology initiatives, potential deferral of revenue due to
multiple-element revenue arrangements and alternate licensing arrangements. If
any of our assumptions about revenue from our new businesses prove incorrect,
our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or
projected.
     
    We
may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights
and defending against third-party claims as a result of litigation or other
proceedings.
     
    In
connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the
acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights, or disputes relating to
the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property
rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently and may in the
future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation.
Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can
be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies
of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully
defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any
ongoing or future litigation and disputes. Third party intellectual property
disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into
royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from
manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, subject us to injunctions
restricting our sale of products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or
the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification
commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various
license arrangements. In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring
the necessary third party intellectual property rights for use in our products.
Any of these could seriously harm our business.
     
    We
may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, including our
source code, from third-party infringers, or unauthorized copying, use,
disclosure or malicious attack.
     
    Although
we defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use
of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques,
preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently
difficult. We actively pursue software pirates as part of our enforcement of our
intellectual property rights, but we nonetheless lose significant revenue due to
illegal use of our software. If piracy activities increase, it may further harm
our business.
     
    Additionally,
we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of our confidential
information and trade secrets, including our source code. If unauthorized
disclosure of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade
secret protection for that source code. The loss of future trade secret
protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products
by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating
margins. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets
through the use of non-disclosure agreements with our customers, contractors,
vendors, and partners. However there is a risk that our confidential information
and trade secrets may be
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        34
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    disclosed
or published without our authorization, and in these situations it may be
difficult and or costly for us to enforce our rights.
     
    We also
devote significant resources to maintaining the security of our products from
malicious hackers who develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious
software programs that attack our products. Nevertheless, actual or perceived
security vulnerabilities in our products could harm our reputation and lead some
customers to seek to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases, to
use competitive products or to make claims against us. Also, with the
introduction of hosted services with some of our product offerings, our
customers may use such services to share confidential and sensitive information.
If a breach of security occurs on these hosted systems, we could be held liable
to our customers. Additionally, such breaches could lead to interruptions,
delays and data loss and protection concerns as well as harm to our
reputation.
    
    We
may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and
integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and
management.
     
    We have
in the past and may in the future acquire additional companies, products or
technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and
each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include:
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              difficulty
      in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired
      company;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              difficulty
      in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our
      current products and technologies;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              difficulty
      in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and
      integration;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              disruption
      of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees
      from other opportunities and
challenges;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              difficulty
      integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information,
      human resources and other administrative
  systems;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              inability
      to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired
      business;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              inability
      to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners
      of the acquired business;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              inability
      to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined
      businesses;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              inability
      to take advantage of anticipated tax benefits as a result of unforeseen
      difficulties in our integration
activities;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              incurring
      acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible
      assets that could impact our operating
results;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              potential
      impairment of our relationships with employees, customers, partners,
      distributors or third-party providers of technology or
      products;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              potential
      failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems,
      liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company or
      technology, including but not limited to, issues with the acquired
      company’s intellectual property, product quality or product architecture,
      revenue recognition or other accounting practices, employee, customer or
      partner issues or legal and financial
  contingencies;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              exposure
      to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims
      or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not
      limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former
      stockholders or other third
parties;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              incurring
      significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are
      unsuccessful;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              potential
      inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are
      effective;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        35
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              potential
      inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from
      governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions;
      and
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              potential
      delay in customer and distributor purchasing decisions due to uncertainty
      about the direction of our product
offerings.
            
          
      
    
     
    Mergers
and acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, and
ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition transaction or
integrate an acquired business successfully and in a timely manner, we may not
realize the benefits of the acquisition to the extent anticipated.
    
    Failure
to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively could result in a loss
of revenue and harm to our business.
     
    
      A
significant amount of our revenue for application products is from two
distributors, Ingram Micro, Inc. and Tech Data Corporation, which represented
18% and 9% of our net revenue for fiscal 2008, respectively. We have multiple
non-exclusive, independently negotiated distribution agreements with Ingram
Micro and Tech Data and their subsidiaries covering our arrangements in
specified countries and regions. Each of these contracts has an independent
duration, is independent of any other agreement (such as a master distribution
agreement) and any termination of one agreement does not affect the status of
any of the other agreements. In fiscal 2008, no single agreement with these
distributors was responsible for over 10% of our total net revenue. If any one
of our agreements with these distributors were terminated, we believe we could
make arrangements with new or existing distributors to distribute our products
without a substantial disruption to our business; however, any prolonged delay
in securing a replacement distributor could have a negative short-term impact on
our results of operations.
       
      
        Our
distributors also sell our competitors’ products, and if they favor our
competitors’ products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as
effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which
would cause our results to suffer. We also distribute some products through our
OEM channel, and if our OEM partners decide not to bundle our applications on
their devices, our results could suffer.
         
        
          In
addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing
relationships with them are important to our success. Some of these distributors
may be unable to withstand adverse changes in current economic conditions, which
could result in insolvency of certain of our distributors and/or the inability
of our distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products.
In addition, weakness in the end-user market could further negatively affect the
cash flow of our distributors who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations
to us, which would increase our credit risk exposure. Our business could be
harmed if the financial condition of some of these distributors substantially
weakens and we were unable to timely secure replacement
distributors.
           
          
            We also
sell certain of our products through our direct sales force. Risks associated
with this sales channel include a longer sales cycle associated with direct
sales efforts, difficulty in hiring, retaining and motivating our direct sales
force, and substantial amounts of training for sales representatives, including
regular updates to cover new and upgraded
products.
          
        
      
    
     
    Catastrophic
events may disrupt our business.
     
    We are a
highly automated business and rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise
applications, internal technology systems and our Web site for our development,
marketing, operational, support, hosted services and sales activities. A
disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake, fire,
telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack, or other
catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, delays
in our product development, breaches of data security and loss of critical data
and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. Our corporate
headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities,
our data centers, and certain other critical business operations are located in
San Jose, California, which is near major earthquake faults. We have developed
certain disaster recovery plans and certain backup systems to reduce the
potentially adverse effect of such events, but a catastrophic event that results
in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical
business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to
conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating
results could be adversely affected.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        36
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Net
revenue, margin or earnings shortfalls or the volatility of the market generally
may cause the market price of our stock to decline.
     
    The
market price for our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and
may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock
may be affected by a number of factors, including shortfalls in our net revenue,
margins, earnings or key performance metrics, changes in estimates or
recommendations by securities analysts, the announcement of new products or
product enhancements by us or our competitors, quarterly variations in our or
our competitors’ results of operations, developments in our industry; unusual
events such as significant acquisitions, divestitures and litigation, general
socio-economic, political or market conditions and other factors, including
factors unrelated to our operating performance.
     
    We
are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our
business.
     
    We
generate over 50% of our total revenue from sales to customers outside of the
Americas. Sales to these customers subject us to a number of risks,
including:
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              foreign
      currency fluctuations;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              changes
      in government preferences for software
  procurement;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              international
      economic, political and labor
conditions;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              tax
      laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign
  subsidiaries);
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              unexpected
      changes in, or impositions of, international legislative or regulatory
      requirements;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              failure
      of foreign laws to protect our intellectual property rights
      adequately;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              inadequate
      local infrastructure;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              delays
      resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain
      technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and
      restrictions;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              transportation
      delays;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, including consumer
      and data protection laws; and
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              other
      factors beyond our control, including terrorism, war, natural disasters
      and diseases.
            
          
      
    
     
    If sales
to any of our customers outside of the Americas are delayed or cancelled because
of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively
impacted.
     
    In
addition, approximately 43% of our employees are located outside the United
States. This means we have exposure to changes in foreign laws governing our
relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations,
fair labor standards, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates,
citizenship requirements and payroll and other taxes, which likely would have a
direct impact on our operating costs. We also intend to expand our international
operations and international sales and marketing activities. Expansion in
international markets has required, and will continue to require, significant
management attention and resources. We may be unable to scale our infrastructure
effectively, or as quickly as our competitors, in these markets, which would
cause our results to suffer. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries
differ significantly from those in the United States. We incur additional legal
compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become
subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local
laws and regulations, which may be substantially different from those in the
United States. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing
economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by
United States regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance
with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees,
contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain
of our business operations, including those based in or from
countries
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        37
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    where
practices which violate such United States laws may be customary, will not take
actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by
our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business.
     
    We
may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to
effectively hedge our exposure.
     
    Our
operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates. We attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency
hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk,
opportunity and expense. We have established a hedging program to partially
hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily for
the Japanese Yen and the Euro. We regularly review our hedging program and make
adjustments as necessary based on the judgment factors discussed above. Our
hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial
impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates,
which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of
operations.
     
    Changes
in, or interpretations of, accounting principles could result in unfavorable
accounting charges.
     
    We
prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). These
principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to
interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these
principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even
retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our accounting principles
that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting
principles are as follows:
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              software
      revenue recognition;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              accounting
      for stock-based compensation;
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              accounting
      for income taxes; and
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              accounting
      for business combinations and related
goodwill.
            
          
      
    
     
    For
example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123
(revised 2004) (“SFAS 123R”), “Share-Based Payment” which requires the
measurement of all stock-based compensation to employees, including grants of
employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of
such expense in our consolidated statements of income. The adoption of
SFAS 123R has had, and will continue to have, a significant adverse effect
on our reported financial results.
     
    We also
adopted FIN 48 in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The adoption of
FIN 48 resulted in an increase to both assets and liabilities in our
condensed consolidated balance sheet as of the beginning of fiscal 2008 and may
create increased volatility in our future operating results.
     
    In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), (“SFAS 141R”),
“Business Combinations,” which changes the accounting for business combinations
including the measurement of acquirer shares issued in consideration for a
business combination, the recognition of contingent consideration, the
accounting for pre-acquisition gain and loss contingencies, the recognition of
capitalized in-process research and development, the accounting for acquisition
related restructuring liabilities, the treatment of acquisition related
transaction costs and the recognition of changes in the acquirer’s income tax
valuation allowance. SFAS 141R is effective for financial statements issued
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We are in the process
of evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of Statement 141R. We currently
believe that the adoption of Statement 141R will result in the recognition of
certain types of expenses in our results of operations that we currently
capitalize pursuant to existing accounting standards and may also impact our
financial statements in other ways.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        38
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    If
our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required
to record a significant charge to earnings.
     
    Under
GAAP, we review our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets for impairment
when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be
recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually.
Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the
carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be
recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future
cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to
record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the
period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets
is determined, resulting in an impact on our results of operations. For example,
our Mobile and Device Solutions business, which will be reported as part of our
Platform segment in fiscal 2009, is in an emerging market with high growth
potential. We recently announced the Open Screen Project. As part of the
project, we will be removing the license fees on the next major releases of
Adobe Flash Player and Adobe AIR for devices. Accordingly, we would expect
revenue from this segment to decrease beginning in the first quarter of fiscal
2009. Although we would expect this decrease to be offset in time by an
increased demand for tooling products, server technologies, hosted services and
applications, if future revenue or revenue forecasts for our Platform segment do
not meet our expectations, we may be required to record a charge to earnings
reflecting an impairment of recorded goodwill or intangible assets.
     
    Changes
in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our
effective tax rates.
     
    We are a
U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax
jurisdictions. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future
results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably
affected by changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the
jurisdictions in which we do business, by unanticipated decreases in the amount
of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, by lapses of
the availability of the U.S. research and development tax credit, or by changes
in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities.
     
    In
addition, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns
by the IRS and other domestic and foreign tax authorities, including a current
examination by the IRS for our fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007 tax returns. These
examinations are expected to focus on our intercompany transfer pricing
practices as well as other matters. We regularly assess the likelihood of
outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our
provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may
result from the current examination. We believe such estimates to be reasonable;
however, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these
examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and
financial position.
     
    If
we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel our business may be
harmed.
     
    Much of
our future success depends on the continued service and availability of our
senior management. These individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and
skills with respect to Adobe. The loss of any of these individuals could harm
our business. Our business is also dependent on our ability to retain, hire and
motivate talented, highly skilled personnel. Experienced personnel in the
information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their
talents is intense, especially in the Bay Area, where many of our employees are
located. We have relied on our ability to grant equity compensation as one
mechanism for recruiting and retaining such highly skilled personnel. Recently
enacted accounting regulations requiring the expensing of equity compensation
may impair our ability to provide these incentives without incurring significant
compensation costs. Additionally, the recent significant adverse volatility in
our stock price has resulted in many employees’ stock option exercise prices
exceeding the underlying stock’s market value as well as deterioration in the
value of employees’ restricted stock units granted, thus lessening the
effectiveness of retaining employees through stock-based awards. If we are
unable to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel, our
business may be harmed.
    
      
        
        
      
      
        39
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    Our
investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the capital
markets.
     
    Our cash
equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of November 28, 2008 consisted
of US treasury securities, bonds of government agencies, obligations of foreign
governments, corporate bonds and taxable money market mutual funds. We follow an
established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate
our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit
quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our
maximum exposure to various asset classes.
     
    As a
result of current adverse financial market conditions, investments in some
financial instruments, such as structured investment vehicles, sub-prime
mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations, may pose risks
arising from recent market liquidity and credit concerns. As of November 28,
2008, we had no direct holdings in these categories of investments and our
indirect exposure to these financial instruments through our holdings in money
market mutual funds was immaterial. As of November 28, 2008, we had no material
impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio relating
to such adverse financial market conditions. Although we believe our current
investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot
predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no
assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially
unimpaired.
     
    We
may suffer losses from our equity investments which could harm our
business.
     
    We have
investments and plan to continue to make future investments in privately-held
companies, many of which are considered in the start-up or development stages.
These investments are inherently risky, as the market for the technologies or
products these companies have under development is typically in the early stages
and may never materialize. Our investment activities can impact our net income.
Future price fluctuations in these securities and any significant long-term
declines in value of any of our investments could reduce our net income in
future periods.
     
    We
rely on turnkey assemblers and any adverse change in our relationship with our
turnkey assemblers could result in a loss of revenue and harm our
business.
     
    We
currently rely on six turnkey assemblers of our products, with at least two
turnkeys located in each major region we serve. If any significant turnkey
assembler terminates its relationship with us, or if our supply from any
significant turnkey assembler is interrupted or terminated for any other reason,
we may not have enough time or be able to replace the supply of products
replicated by that turnkey assembler to avoid serious harm to our
business.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        40
        
          
        
      
      
        TABLE OF CONTENTS
      
    
    ITEM 1B