ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other
    documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and
    uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking
    statements contained in this report.


 



    Our
    future revenue, gross margins, operating results and net income
    are difficult to predict and may materially fluctuate.


 


    Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results and net
    income are difficult to predict and may be materially affected
    by a number of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in customer demand for our products and for end products
    that incorporate our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us,
    our customers or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    competitive pricing pressures;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability of
    wafers and other raw materials, and manufacturing, assembly and
    test capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    the risk that our backlog could decline significantly;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing, delay or cancellation of significant customer orders
    and our ability to manage inventory;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of
    engineers and other qualified employees to meet the demands of
    our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in geographic, product or customer mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential significant litigation-related costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    the difficulties inherent in forecasting future operating
    expense levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    the costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide
    environmental regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in our effective tax rate;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effect of adverse changes in economic conditions in the
    United States and international markets; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters,
    terrorist activities, international conflicts and other events
    beyond our control.





 


    In addition, the semiconductor market has historically been
    cyclical and subject to significant economic downturns. Our
    business is subject to rapid technological changes and there can
    be no assurance, depending on the mix of future business, that
    products stocked in inventory will not be rendered obsolete
    before we ship them. As a result of these and other factors,
    there can be no assurance that we will not experience material
    fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins and operating
    results on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, if our
    revenue, gross margins, operating results and net income do not
    meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the
    market price of our common stock may decline.


 



    Long-term
    contracts are not typical for us and reductions, cancellations
    or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 


    In certain markets where end-user demand may be particularly
    volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders
    that require us to manufacture product and have it available for
    shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a
    binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product.
    At any given time, this situation could affect a portion of our
    backlog. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing
    costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the
    risk of cancellations of orders leading to a sharp reduction of
    sales and backlog. Further, those orders may be for products
    that meet the customer’s unique requirements so that those
    cancelled orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of
    unsaleable products, resulting in potential inventory



    
    10



Table of Contents




    write-offs. As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for
    certain of the products that are subject to these uncertainties,
    the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial.
    Reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products
    could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Our
    future success depends upon our ability to continue to improve
    our products, develop and market new products, and identify and
    enter new markets.


 


    Our success significantly depends on our continued ability to
    improve our products and develop and market new products.
    Product development and enhancement is often a complex,
    time-consuming and costly process involving significant
    investment in research and development. There can be no
    assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce new and
    improved products in a timely or efficient manner or that new
    and improved products, if developed, will achieve market
    acceptance. Our products generally must conform to various
    evolving and sometimes competing industry standards, which may
    adversely affect our ability to compete in certain markets or
    require us to incur significant costs. In addition, our
    customers generally impose very high quality and reliability
    standards on our products, which often change and may be
    difficult or costly to satisfy. Any inability to satisfy such
    customer quality standards or comply with industry standards and
    technical requirements may adversely affect demand for our
    products and our results of operations. In addition, our growth
    is dependent on our continued ability to identify and penetrate
    new markets where we have limited experience and competition is
    intense. There can be no assurance that the markets we serve
    will grow in the future, that our existing and new products will
    meet the requirements of these markets, that our products will
    achieve customer acceptance in these markets, that competitors
    will not force prices to an unacceptably low level or take
    market share from us, or that we can achieve or maintain profits
    in these markets. Furthermore, a decline in demand in one or
    several of our end-user markets could have a material adverse
    effect on the demand for our products and our results of
    operations. Also, some of our customers in these markets are
    less established, which could subject us to increased credit
    risk.


 



    We may
    not be able to compete successfully in markets within the
    semiconductor industry in the future.


 


    Many other companies offer products that compete with our
    products. Some have greater financial, manufacturing, technical
    and marketing resources than we have. Some of our competitors
    may have better established supply or development relationships
    with our current and potential customers. Additionally, some
    formerly independent competitors have been purchased by larger
    companies. Our competitors also include emerging companies
    selling specialized products in markets we serve. Competition is
    based on design and quality of products, product performance,
    features and functionality, and price, with the relative
    importance of these factors varying among products, markets and
    customers. Existing or new competitors may develop products or
    technologies that more effectively address the demands of our
    customers and markets with enhanced features and functionality,
    lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower
    cost. Increased competition in certain markets has resulted in
    and may continue to result in declining average selling prices,
    reduced gross margins and loss of market share in such markets.
    There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete
    successfully in the future against existing or new competitors,
    or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by
    increased price competition.


 



    We rely
    on third-party subcontractors and manufacturers for some
    industry-standard wafers and assembly and test services, and
    therefore cannot control their availability or conditions of
    supply.


 


    We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on assembly and test
    subcontractors and on third-party wafer fabricators to supply
    most of our wafers that can be manufactured using
    industry-standard submicron processes. This reliance involves
    several risks, including reduced control over availability,
    capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields,
    quality assurance and costs. Additionally, we utilize a limited
    number of third-party wafer fabricators, primarily Taiwan
    Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. These suppliers manufacture
    components in accordance with our proprietary designs and
    specifications. We have no written supply agreements with these
    suppliers and purchase our custom components through individual
    purchase orders. In addition, these suppliers often provide
    manufacturing services to our competitors and therefore periods
    of increased industry demand may result in capacity constraints.
    If these suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and
    deliver sufficient quantities of components to us on the time
    schedule and of the quality that we require, we may be forced to
    seek to



    
    11



Table of Contents




    engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result
    in additional expenses and delays in product development or
    shipment of product to our customers.


 



    We may
    not be able to satisfy increasing demand for our products, and
    increased production may lead to overcapacity and lower
    prices.


 


    The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted
    in sustained and short-term periods when demand for our products
    has increased or decreased rapidly. During these periods of
    rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be
    sufficient to satisfy the available demand. In addition, we may
    not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a
    sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources, or
    locate suitable third-party suppliers, to respond effectively to
    changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for
    new products requested by our customers, and our current or
    future business could be materially and adversely affected.
    Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too
    rapidly or procure excessive resources in anticipation of
    increased demand for our products, and such demand does not
    materialize at the pace at which we expect, our operating
    results may be adversely affected. These capacity expansions by
    us and other semiconductor manufacturers could also lead to
    overcapacity in our target markets which could lead to price
    erosion that would adversely impact our operating results.


 



    Our
    revenue may not increase enough to offset the expense of
    additional capacity.


 


    We, and the semiconductor industry generally, expand production
    facilities and access to third-party foundries in response to
    periods of increased demand which can cause operating expenses
    to increase. Should customer demand fail to increase or should
    we enter a period of reduced customer demand, our financial
    position and results of operations could be adversely impacted
    as a result of increased operating expenses, reduced margins,
    underutilization of capacity or asset impairment charges.


 



    Our
    semiconductor products are complex and may contain undetected
    defects which could result in significant costs, claims and
    damage to our reputation, and adversely affect the market
    acceptance of our products.


 


    Semiconductor products are highly complex and may contain
    undetected defects when they are first introduced or as new
    versions are developed. We invest significant resources in the
    testing of our products; however, if any of our products contain
    defects, we may be required to incur additional development and
    remediation costs, pursuant to warranty and indemnification
    provisions in our customer contracts. These problems may divert
    our technical and other resources from other product development
    efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers
    or others, including liability for costs associated with product
    recalls. If any of our products contains defects, or has
    reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation
    may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to
    sell our products to existing and prospective customers and
    could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    We may be
    unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may
    limit our ability to compete effectively.


 


    Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our
    intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, mask work,
    copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as
    nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our
    proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to
    protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is
    possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties
    may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and
    processes. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries in which we
    design, manufacture, market and sell our products may afford
    little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology.


 


    There can be no assurance that the claims allowed in our issued
    patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In
    addition, any of our existing or future patents may be
    challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights
    granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful
    protection. We may not have foreign patents or pending
    applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and
    applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective
    enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our
    patents do not adequately protect our technology, our
    competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our
    competitors may also be able to



    
    12



Table of Contents




    develop similar technology independently or design around our
    patents. Other companies or individuals have obtained patents
    covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and
    we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these
    patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing
    products, if such patents are found to be valid. There can be no
    assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required,
    upon commercially reasonable terms, or at all.


 


    We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our
    employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to
    control access to and distribution of our technologies,
    documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these
    efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy,
    disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology
    without our authorization. Also, former employees may seek
    employment with our business partners, customers or competitors,
    and there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of
    our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of
    such future employment.


 



    We are
    involved in frequent litigation, including regarding
    intellectual property rights, which could be costly to bring or
    defend and could require us to redesign products or pay
    significant royalties.


 


    The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims
    and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property
    rights, including claims arising under our contractual
    obligations to indemnify our customers. We have received from
    time to time, and may receive in the future, claims from third
    parties asserting that our products or processes infringe their
    patents or other intellectual property rights. In the event a
    third party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us
    and a license is not available to us on commercially reasonable
    terms, or at all, we could be forced either to redesign or to
    stop production of products incorporating that intellectual
    property, and our operating results could be materially and
    adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our
    patents or other of our intellectual property rights or to
    defend us against claims of infringement, and this litigation
    could be costly and divert the attention of our key personnel.
    We could be subject to warranty or product liability claims that
    could lead to significant costs and expenses as we defend such
    claims or pay damage awards. While we maintain product liability
    insurance, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be
    available or adequate to protect against all such claims. We may
    incur costs and expenses relating to a recall of one of our
    customers’ products containing one of our products. See
    Note 12 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for information concerning certain pending litigation that
    involves us. An adverse outcome in these matters or other
    litigation could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position or on our consolidated results
    of operations or cash flows in the period in which the
    litigation is resolved.


 



    If we do
    not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our
    business strategy will be limited.


 


    Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued
    service of our executive officers and key management and
    technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers, and
    on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate
    qualified personnel. The competition for these employees is
    intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key
    personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating
    results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect
    on our business should the turnover rates for engineers and
    other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable
    to continue to attract qualified personnel. We do not maintain
    any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or
    employees.


 



    To remain
    competitive, we may need to acquire other companies or purchase
    or license technology from third parties in order to introduce
    new products and services or enhance our existing products and
    services.


 


    An element of our business strategy involves expansion through
    the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies
    that allow us to complement our existing product offerings,
    expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce
    or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to
    find businesses that have the technology or resources we need
    and, if we find such businesses, may not be able to purchase or
    license the technology or resources on commercially favorable
    terms or at all. Acquisitions and technology licenses are
    difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons,
    including the cost of potential transactions, competition among
    prospective buyers and licensees and the need for regulatory
    approvals. In order to finance a potential transaction, we may
    need to raise additional funds by selling our stock or borrowing
    money. We may not be able to



    
    13



Table of Contents




    find financing on favorable terms, and the sale of our stock may
    result in the dilution of our existing shareholders or the
    issuance of securities with rights that are superior to the
    rights of our common stockholders. Acquisitions also involve a
    number of risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations and
    personnel with our existing businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    diversion of management attention in connection with both
    negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    strain on managerial and operational resources as management
    tries to oversee larger operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the future funding requirements for acquired companies, which
    may be significant;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential loss of key employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired
    companies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increased risk of costly and time-consuming litigation.





 


    If we are unable to successfully address these risks, we may not
    realize some or all of the expected benefits of the acquisition,
    which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations.


 



    We rely
    on manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable
    areas, which could affect the availability of supplies and
    services.


 


    We, and many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on
    internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and
    other sub-contractors in geologically unstable locations around
    the world. This reliance involves risks associated with the
    impact of earthquakes on us and the semiconductor industry,
    including temporary loss of capacity, availability and cost of
    key raw materials and equipment and availability of key services
    including transport of our products worldwide. Any prolonged
    inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or
    those of our subcontractors or third party wafer-fabrication
    foundries, as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability
    of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations and financial condition.


 



    We are
    exposed to business, economic, political and other risks through
    our significant worldwide operations.


 


    During fiscal 2007, approximately 74% of our product revenue was
    derived from customers in international markets. Although we
    engage in hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to
    currency exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance
    that our competitive position will not be adversely affected by
    changes in the exchange rate of the United States dollar against
    other currencies. Potential interest rate increases, as well as
    high energy costs could have an adverse impact on industrial and
    consumer spending patterns and could adversely impact demand for
    our products. We have manufacturing facilities outside the
    United States in Ireland and the Philippines. In addition to
    being exposed to the ongoing economic cycles in the
    semiconductor industry, we are also subject to the economic and
    political risks inherent in international operations and their
    impact on the United States economy in general, including the
    risks associated with ongoing uncertainties and political and
    economic instability in many countries around the world as well
    as the economic disruption from acts of terrorism, and the
    response to them by the United States and its allies. Other
    business risks associated with international operations include
    increased managerial complexities, air transportation
    disruptions, expropriation, currency controls, currency exchange
    rate movement, additional costs related to foreign taxes,
    tariffs and freight rate increases, exposure to different
    business practices and legal standards, particularly with
    respect to price protection and intellectual property, trade and
    travel restrictions, pandemics, import and export license
    requirements and restrictions, difficulties in staffing and
    managing worldwide operations, and accounts receivable
    collections.


 



    Our
    future operating results are dependent on the performance of
    independent distributors.


 


    A significant portion of our sales are through independent
    distributors that are not under our control. These independent
    distributors generally represent product lines offered by
    several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts
    applied to our products or terminate their representation of us.
    We generally do not require letters of



    
    14



Table of Contents




    credit from our distributors and are not protected against
    accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors.
    Our inability to collect open accounts receivable could
    adversely affect our results of operations. Termination of a
    significant distributor, whether at our initiative or the
    distributor’s initiative, could disrupt our current
    business. If we are unable to find suitable replacements in the
    event of terminations by significant distributors our operating
    results could be adversely affected.


 



    We are
    subject to increasingly strict environmental regulations, which
    could increase our expenses and affect our operating
    results.


 


    Our industry is subject to environmental regulations that
    control and restrict the use, transportation, emission,
    discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals used in the
    manufacturing process. Public attention on environmental
    controls has increased, and changes in environmental regulations
    might require us to invest in costly remediation equipment or
    alter the way our products are made. In addition, we use
    hazardous and other regulated materials that subject us to risks
    of liability for damages caused by accidental releases,
    regardless of fault. Any failure to control such materials
    adequately or to comply with regulatory restrictions could
    increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Our
    manufacturing processes are highly complex and may be
    interrupted.


 


    We have manufacturing processes that utilize a substantial
    amount of technology as the fabrication of integrated circuits
    is a highly complex and precise process. Minute impurities,
    contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in
    the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer
    manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer
    breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of
    wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be
    nonfunctional. While we have significant expertise in
    semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes
    could become unstable. This instability could result in
    manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial position or results of
    operations.


 



    Our stock
    price may be volatile.


 


    The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the
    past and may be volatile in the future, as it may be
    significantly affected by the following factors:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and operating
    results;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our
    failure to perform in line with such estimates or our published
    guidance;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in market valuations of other semiconductor companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements by us or our competitors of significant new
    products, technical innovations, acquisitions or dispositions,
    litigation or capital commitments;




 



     
        • 

    
    departures of key personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    actual or perceived noncompliance with corporate responsibility
    or ethics standards by us or any of our employees, officers or
    directors; and




 



     
        • 

    
    negative media publicity targeting us or our competitors.





 


    The stock market has historically experienced volatility,
    especially within the semiconductor industry, that often has
    been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These
    market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless
    of our operating results.







 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B