 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.CustomersWe have over 100,000 customers worldwide. Our largest single customer represented approximately 13% of fiscal 2015 revenue. No sales to an individual customer accounted for more than 10% of fiscal 2014, or fiscal 2013 revenue. Our customers use hundreds of different types of our products in a wide range of applications spanning the industrial, automotive, consumer and communication markets. Our 20 largest customers accounted for approximately 39% of our fiscal 2015 revenue.SeasonalitySales to customers during our first fiscal quarter may be lower than other quarters due to plant shutdowns at some of our customers during the holiday season. In general, the seasonality for any specific period of time has not had a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, as explained in our risk factors contained in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our revenue is more likely to be influenced on a quarter to quarter basis by cyclicality in the semiconductor industry.7Production and Raw MaterialsMonolithic IC components are manufactured in a sequence of semiconductor production steps that include wafer fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the wafer into individual “chips,” or dice, assembly of the dice into packages and electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form. The raw materials used to manufacture these devices include silicon wafers, processing chemicals (including liquefied gases), precious metals and ceramic and plastic used for packaging.We develop and employ a wide variety of proprietary manufacturing processes that are specifically tailored for use in fabricating high-performance analog, DSP, mixed-signal and MEMS ICs. We also use bipolar and complementary metal-oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, wafer fabrication processes.Our IC products are fabricated both at our production facilities and by third-party wafer fabricators. Our products are manufactured in our own wafer fabrication facilities using proprietary processes and at third-party wafer-fabrication foundries using sub-micron digital CMOS processes. We currently source approximately 60% of our wafer requirements annually from third-party wafer fabrication foundries, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC).  We operate wafer fabrication facilities in Wilmington, Massachusetts and Limerick, Ireland. We also operate test facilities located in the Philippines and use third-party subcontractors for the assembly and testing of our products.Capital spending was approximately $154 million in fiscal 2015, compared with approximately $178 million in fiscal 2014. We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2016 to be in the range of $140 million to $160 million.Our products require a wide variety of components, raw materials and external foundry services, most of which we purchase from third-party suppliers. We have multiple sources for many of the components and materials that we purchase and incorporate into our products. However, a large portion of our external wafer purchases and foundry services are from a limited number of suppliers, primarily TSMC. If TSMC or any of our other key suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver sufficient quantities of components to us, on the time schedule and of the quality that we require, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in significant expenses and disruptions or delays in manufacturing, product development and shipment of product to our customers. Although we have experienced shortages of components, materials and external foundry services from time to time, these items have generally been available to us as needed.BacklogBacklog at the end of fiscal 2015 was approximately $626 million, up from approximately $538 million at the end of fiscal 2014. We define backlog as of a particular date to mean firm orders from a customer or distributor with a requested delivery date within thirteen weeks. Backlog is impacted by the tendency of customers to rely on shorter lead times available from suppliers, including us, in periods of depressed demand. In periods of increased demand, there is a tendency towards longer lead times that has the effect of increasing backlog and, in some instances, we may not have manufacturing capacity sufficient to fulfill all orders. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, we allow most orders to be canceled or deliveries to be delayed by customers without significant penalty. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog at any time should not be used as an indication of our future revenue.We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers. In some of our markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product. In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demand. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellation of orders leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog. Further, those orders or forecasts may be for products that meet the customer’s unique requirements so that those canceled orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, resulting in potential inventory write-offs. As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for some of our products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial.Government ContractsWe estimate that approximately 3% of our fiscal 2015 revenue was attributable to sales to the U.S. government and U.S. government contractors and subcontractors. Our government contract business is predominantly in the form of negotiated, firm, fixed-price subcontracts. Most of these contracts and subcontracts contain standard provisions relating to termination at the election of the U.S. government.8Acquisitions, Divestitures and InvestmentsAn element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. From time to time, we consider acquisitions and divestitures that may strengthen our business. On July 22, 2014, we completed the acquisition of Hittite Microwave Corporation (Hittite), a company that designed and developed high performance integrated circuits, modules, subsystems and instrumentation for radio frequency, microwave and millimeterwave applications. The total consideration paid to acquire Hittite was approximately $2.4 billion, financed through a combination of existing cash on hand and a 90-day term loan facility of $2.0 billion.On October 31, 2013, we completed the sale of the assets and intellectual property related to our microphone product line to InvenSense, Inc. (InvenSense). We received $100.0 million in cash for the assets and intellectual property at the closing.Additional information relating to our acquisition and divestiture activities during fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013 is set forth in Note 6 and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.CompetitionWe believe that competitive performance in the marketplace for signal processing products depends upon multiple factors, including technological innovation, strength of brand, diversity of product portfolio, product performance, technical support, delivery capabilities, customer service quality, reliability and price, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets, and customers.We compete with a number of semiconductor companies in markets that are highly competitive. Our competitors include but are not limited to:• Robert Bosch GmbH  • Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.• Broadcom Corporation • Microchip Technology, Inc.• Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.  • NXP Semiconductors• Infineon Technologies • Texas Instruments, Inc.• Linear Technology Corporation  We believe that our technical innovation emphasizing product performance and reliability, supported by our commitment to strong customer service and technical support, enables us to make a fundamental difference to our customers’ competitiveness in our chosen markets.Environment, Health and SafetyWe are committed to protecting the environment and the health and safety of our employees, customers and the public. We endeavor to adhere to applicable environmental, health and safety (EHS) regulatory and industry standards across all of our facilities, and to encourage pollution prevention, reduce our water and energy consumption, reduce waste generation, and strive towards continual improvement. We strive to achieve excellence in EHS management practices as an integral part of our total quality management system.Our management systems are certified to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001 and TS16949. We are a member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). Our Sustainability Report, first published in 2009, states our commitment to consuming less energy and applying fair labor standards, among other things. We are not including the information contained in our Sustainability Report in, or incorporating it by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state, local and foreign EHS laws and regulations, particularly with respect to the transportation, storage, handling, use, emission, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. Our products are subject to increasingly stringent regulations regarding chemical content in jurisdictions where we sell products, including the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive in the European Union and China and the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) directive in the European Union. Contracts with many of our customers reflect these and additional EHS compliance standards. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position. There can be no assurance, however, that current or future environmental laws and regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. Any failure by us to comply with applicable 9environmental laws, regulations and contractual obligations could result in fines, suspension of production, the need to alter manufacturing processes and legal liability.EmployeesAs of October 31, 2015, we employed approximately 9,700 individuals worldwide. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and senior management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, particularly those highly-skilled design, process, test and applications engineers involved in the design, support and manufacture of new and existing products and processes. We believe that relations with our employees are good; however, the competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.10ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORSSet forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report.Disruptions in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.There is significant continuing uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets. These economic uncertainties may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.  Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.  Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.  Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the global credit and financial markets could cause the value of the currency in the affected markets to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of those customers. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. During the past few years, many governments adopted stimulus or spending programs designed to ease the economic impact of the crisis. Some of our businesses benefited from these stimulus programs but there can be no assurance that such programs will continue in the future. If economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share are difficult to predict and may materially fluctuate.Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share are difficult to predict and may be materially affected by a number of factors, including:•the effects of adverse economic conditions in the markets in which we sell our products;•changes in customer demand for our products and/or for end products that incorporate our products;•our ability to effectively manage our cost structure in both the short term and over a longer duration;•changes in geographic, product or customer mix;•changes in our effective tax rates in the United States, Ireland or worldwide; •the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us, our customers or our competitors;•competitive pricing pressures;•fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability of wafers and other raw materials, and manufacturing, assembly and test capacity;•the ability of our third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers to supply us with sufficient quantities of raw materials, products and/or components;•a decline in infrastructure spending by foreign governments, including China;•a decline in the U.S. Government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, a prolonged U.S. Government shutdown or delays in contract awards;•any significant decline in our backlog;•the timing, delay, reduction or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability to manage inventory;•our ability to recruit, hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of engineers and other qualified employees to meet the demands of our customers;•the increasing costs of providing employee benefits, including health insurance, pension plan and retirement plan contributions and retirement benefits; •our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at efficient levels;•potential significant litigation-related costs or product warranty and/or indemnity claims, including those not covered by our suppliers or insurers;11•the difficulties inherent in forecasting future operating expense levels, including with respect to costs associated with labor, utilities, transportation and raw materials;•the costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide government, environmental and social responsibility regulations; and•the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, widespread travel disruptions, security risks, terrorist activities, international conflicts, government sanctions and other events beyond our control.In addition, the semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic upturns and downturns. Our business and certain of the end markets we serve are also subject to rapid technological changes and material fluctuations in demand based on end-user preferences.  There can be no assurance (i) that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them, or (ii) that we will be able to design, develop and produce products in a timely fashion to accommodate changing customer demand. As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.  Our historical financial performance and results of operations should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance or results.  In addition, if our revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may decline.Increases in our effective tax rate and exposure to additional tax liabilities may adversely impact our results of operations.Our effective tax rate reflects the applicable tax rate in effect in the various tax jurisdictions around the world where our income is earned.  Our effective tax rate in 2015 was below the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%, primarily due to lower statutory tax rates applicable to our operations in the foreign jurisdictions in which we earn income.  A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including: new or revised tax laws or legislation (including proposed revisions to Irish tax laws) or the interpretation of such laws or legislation by governmental authorities; increases in tax rates in various jurisdictions; variation in the mix of jurisdictions in which our profits are earned and taxed; repatriation of non-U.S. earnings; any adverse resolution of ongoing tax audits or adverse rulings from taxing authorities worldwide; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including executive compensation subject to the limitations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and amortization of assets acquired in connection with strategic transactions; decreased availability of tax deductions for stock-based compensation awards worldwide; and changes in available tax credits. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could adversely impact our net income during future periods.Long-term contracts are not typical for us and incorrect forecasts or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results.We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers. In certain markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product. In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demands, which may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis. Additionally, our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts may be funded in increments over a number of government budget periods and typically can be terminated by the government for its convenience.  As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales, and we are subject to the risk of lower than expected orders or cancellations of orders, leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog. Further, orders or forecasts for products that meet the customer’s unique requirements and that are canceled or unrealized orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs, and we may be unable to recover all of our costs incurred or committed. As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial. Incorrect forecasts, or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results.Our future success depends upon our ability to execute our business strategy, continue to innovate, improve our existing products, design, develop, produce and market new products, and identify and enter new markets.Our future success significantly depends on our continued ability to execute our business strategy, continue to improve our existing products and design, develop, produce and market innovative new products. Product design, development, innovation and enhancement is often a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving significant investment in research and development, with no assurance of return on investment. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce new and improved products in a timely or efficient manner or that new and improved products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance. Our products generally must conform to various evolving and sometimes 12competing industry standards, which may adversely affect our ability to compete in certain markets or require us to incur significant costs. In addition, our customers generally impose very high quality and reliability standards on our products, which often change and may be difficult or costly to satisfy. Any inability to satisfy customer quality and reliability standards or comply with industry standards and technical requirements may adversely affect demand for our products and our results of operations. In addition, our growth is dependent on our continued ability to identify and penetrate new markets where we have limited experience and competition is intense. Some of our customers in these markets are less established, which could subject us to increased credit risk. There can be no assurance that the markets we serve and/or target based on our business strategy will grow in the future, that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of these markets, that our products, or the products in which our products are used, will achieve customer acceptance in these markets, that competitors will not force price reductions or take market share from us, or that we can achieve or maintain adequate gross margins or profits in these markets. Furthermore, a decline in demand in one or several of our end-user markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our results of operations.We may not be able to compete successfully in markets within the semiconductor industry in the future.We face intense technological and pricing competition in the semiconductor industry, and we expect this competition to increase in the future, including from companies located outside of the United States. Many companies have sufficient financial, manufacturing, technical, sales and marketing resources to develop and market products that compete with our products. Some of our competitors may have more advantageous supply or development relationships with our current and potential customers or suppliers. Our competitors also include emerging companies selling specialized products in markets we serve and entities outside of the U.S., including entities associated with efforts by foreign governments to create indigenous semiconductor industries.  Competition is generally based on design and quality of products, product performance, features and functionality, and product pricing, availability and capacity, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers. Existing or new competitors may develop products or technologies that more effectively address the demands of our customers and markets with enhanced performance, features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition in certain markets has resulted in and may continue to result in declining average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in those markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased competition.  In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation over the past several years.  Consolidation among our competitors could lead to a changing competitive landscape, which could negatively impact our competitive position and market share and harm our results of operations.We rely on third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers for some industry-standard wafers, manufacturing processes, assembly and test services, and transportation, and we generally cannot control their availability or conditions of supply.We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on suppliers, assembly and test subcontractors, freight carriers, and third-party wafer fabricators to supply most of our wafers that can be manufactured using industry-standard submicron processes. This reliance involves several risks, including reduced control over availability, capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs. We currently source approximately 60% of our wafer requirements annually from third-party wafer fabrication foundries, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC. In addition, these suppliers often provide manufacturing services to our competitors and therefore periods of increased industry demand may result in capacity constraints. In certain instances, the third-party supplier is the sole source of highly specialized processing services. If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers. If additional or replacement suppliers or manufacturing processes are not available, we may also experience delays in product development or shipment which could, in turn, result in the temporary or permanent loss of customers.The markets for semiconductor products are cyclical, and increased production may lead to overcapacity and lower prices, and conversely, we may not be able to satisfy unexpected demand for our products.The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted in periods when demand for our products has increased or decreased rapidly. If we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly or procure excessive resources in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and that demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expect, or declines, or if we overbuild inventory in a period of decreased demand, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of increased operating expenses, reduced margins, underutilization of capacity or asset impairment charges. These capacity expansions by us and other semiconductor manufacturers could also lead to overcapacity in our target markets which could lead to price erosion that would adversely impact our operating results. Conversely, during periods of rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand. In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and 13operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources and raw materials, or locate suitable third-party suppliers, to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected.Our semiconductor products are complex and we may be subject to product warranty and indemnity claims, which could result in significant costs and damage to our reputation and adversely affect the market acceptance of our products.Semiconductor products are highly complex and may contain defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are developed. We generally warrant our products to our customers for one year from the date title passes from us. We invest significant resources in the testing of our products; however, if any of our products contain defects, we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, which may adversely impact our operating results. We may also be subject to customer indemnity claims. Our customers have on occasion been sued, and may be sued in the future, by third parties alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, or damages resulting from use of our products. Those customers may seek indemnification from us under the terms and conditions of our sales contracts with them. In certain cases, our potential indemnification liability may be significant. If any of our products contains defects, or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could also adversely affect our operating results.We have manufacturing processes that utilize a substantial amount of technology as the fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional. While we have significant expertise in semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes could become unstable. This instability could result in manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.We are involved in frequent litigation, including claims regarding intellectual property rights, which could be costly to bring or defend and could require us to redesign products or pay significant royalties.The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights, including claims arising under our contractual obligations to indemnify our customers. Other companies or individuals have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling infringing products, if those patents are found to be valid and infringed by us.  In the event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us and a license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced either to redesign or to stop production of products incorporating that intellectual property, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents or other of our intellectual property rights or to defend us against claims of infringement, and this litigation could be costly and divert the attention of our key personnel. We could also be subject to litigation or arbitration disputes arising under our contractual obligations, as well as indemnity, warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant costs and expenses as we defend those claims or pay damage awards. There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured to protect against all claims and potential liabilities, and we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters. We may incur costs and expenses relating to a recall of our customers’ products due to an alleged failure of components we supply. An adverse outcome in litigation or arbitration could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or on our operating results or cash flows in the period in which the dispute is resolved.We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively.Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, mask work, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, reverse engineer, use or disclose our technologies, products and processes. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries in which we design, manufacture, market and sell our products may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the claims allowed in our issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection. We may not be able to obtain foreign patents or 14pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our patents and mask works do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents.We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment.A significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems could materially and adversely affect our business or reputation.  We rely on information technology systems throughout our Company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as internet connectivity, network communications and email.  Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events.   If we were to experience a prolonged disruption in the information technology systems that involve our internal communications or our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. We may also be subject to security breaches caused by computer viruses, illegal break-ins or hacking, sabotage, or acts of vandalism by third parties.  Our security measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent security breaches.  In addition, we provide our confidential and proprietary information to our strategic partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business.  While we employ confidentiality agreements to protect such information, nonetheless those third parties may also be subject to security breaches or otherwise compromise the protection of such information.  Security breaches of our information technology systems or those of our partners could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential and proprietary information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.If we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be adversely affected.Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on our business should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or employees.To remain competitive, we may need to invest in or acquire other companies, purchase or license technology from third parties, or enter into other strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or enhance our existing products.An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, diversify our product portfolio, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to find businesses that have the technology or resources we need and, if we find such businesses, we may not be able to invest in, purchase or license the technology or resources on commercially favorable terms or at all. Acquisitions, investments and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory approvals, and difficulties related to integration efforts. Both in the U.S. and abroad, governmental regulation of acquisitions, including antitrust reviews and approvals, has become more complex, increasing the costs and risks of undertaking and consummating significant acquisitions. In order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by issuing securities or borrowing money. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, and the sale of our stock may result in the dilution of our existing shareholders or the issuance of securities with rights that are superior to the rights of our common shareholders.Acquisitions also involve a number of risks, including:•difficulty or delay integrating acquired technologies, operations and personnel with our existing businesses;•diversion of management's attention in connection with both negotiating the transaction and integrating the assets;15•strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger or more complex operations;•the future funding requirements for acquired companies, which may be significant;•potential loss of key employees;•exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; •higher than expected or unexpected costs relating to or associated with an acquisition;•difficulty realizing synergies and growth prospects of an acquisition in a timely manner or at all; and•increased risk of costly and time-consuming litigation.If we are unable to successfully address these risks, we may not realize some or all of the expected benefits of the acquisition, which may have an adverse effect on our business strategy, plans and operating results.We rely on supplies, services and manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable areas, which could affect our ability to produce products.We, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on supplies, services, internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and other subcontractors in geologically unstable locations around the world. Earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters may disrupt local semiconductor-related businesses and adversely affect manufacturing capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment, and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide.  Our insurance may not adequately cover losses resulting from such disruptions.  Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, flood, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of customers for affected products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We are exposed to business, economic, political, legal, regulatory and other risks through our significant worldwide operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have significant operations and manufacturing facilities outside the United States, including in Ireland and the Philippines. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from customers in international markets, and we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in the future.  Risks associated with our international business operations include the following:  •political, legal and economic changes or instability and civil unrest in foreign markets;•currency conversion risks and exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations;•limitations on the repatriation of earnings;•economic disruption from terrorism and threats of terrorism and the response to them by the U.S. and its allies;•increased managerial complexities, including different employment practices and labor issues;•greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights;•complex and varying government regulations and legal standards, particularly with respect to price protection, competition practices, export control regulations, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, data privacy, intellectual property, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, including U.S. customs and export regulations, including International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;•natural disasters or pandemics;•transportation disruptions and delays and increases in labor and transportation costs;•changes to foreign taxes, tariffs and freight rates;•trade and travel restrictions or government sanctions, including restrictions imposed by the U.S. government on trading with parties in foreign countries; •fluctuations in raw material costs and energy costs;•greater difficulty in accounts receivable collections and longer collection periods; and•costs associated with our foreign defined benefit pension plans.16Any of these risks, or any other risks related to international business operations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Many of these risks are present in China.  While we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving policies, laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, antitrust,  the environment, indigenous innovation and the promotion of a domestic semiconductor industry, and intellectual property rights and enforcement and protection of those rights. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, and restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results.At October 31, 2015, our principal source of liquidity was $3.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $657.8 million was held in the United States and the remaining balance was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. As we intend to reinvest our foreign earnings indefinitely, this cash held outside the United States is not readily available to meet our cash requirements in the United States. We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends and acquisitions. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, borrowings under our current credit facility, future debt or equity offerings or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are permanently reinvested, and we may be required to pay additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Our operating results are dependent on the performance of independent distributors.A significant portion of our sales are through independent distributors that are not under our control. These independent distributors generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or they could terminate their representation of us. We generally do not require letters of credit from our distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or declarations of bankruptcy by these distributors. Our inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our operating results. Termination of a significant distributor or a group of distributors, whether at our initiative or the distributor’s initiative or through consolidation in the distribution industry, could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected.We are subject to environmental, health and safety (EHS) regulations, which could increase our expenses and affect our operating results.Our industry is subject to EHS requirements, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the sourcing, use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, minerals, elements and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. Public attention to environmental, sustainability and social responsibility concerns continues to increase, and our customers routinely include stringent environmental and other standards in their contracts with us. Changes in EHS laws or regulations may require us to invest in costly equipment or alter the way our products are made and may adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. In addition, we use hazardous and other regulated materials that subject us to risks of strict liability for damages caused by potential or actual releases of such materials. Any failure to control such materials adequately or to comply with existing or future EHS statutory or regulatory standards, requirements or contractual obligations could result in liability for damages and remediation; the imposition of regulatory penalties and civil and criminal fines; the suspension or termination of the development, manufacture, sale or use of certain of our products; changes to our manufacturing processes or a need to substitute materials that may cost more or be less available; damage to our reputation; and/or increased expenses associated with compliance, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, we could suffer a loss of revenue or incur price adjustments or other penalties.Some of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the United States government and subcontracts with its prime contractors. As a United States government contractor or subcontractor, we are subject to federal contracting regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which govern the allowability of costs incurred by us in the performance of United States government contracts. Certain contract pricing is based on estimated direct and indirect costs, which are subject to change. Additionally, the United States government is entitled after final payment on certain negotiated contracts to examine all of our cost records with respect to such contracts and to seek a downward adjustment to the price of the contract if it determines that we failed to furnish complete, accurate and current cost or pricing data in connection with the negotiation of the price of the contract.17In connection with our United States government business, we are also subject to government audits and to review and approval of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws. In certain circumstances, if we do not comply with the terms of a contract or with regulations or statutes, we could be subject to downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations or could in extreme circumstances be assessed civil and criminal penalties or be debarred or suspended from obtaining future contracts for a specified period of time. Any such suspension or debarment or other sanction could have an adverse effect on our business.Under some of our government subcontracts, we are required to maintain secure facilities and to obtain security clearances for personnel involved in performance of the contract, in compliance with applicable federal standards. If we were unable to comply with these requirements, or if personnel critical to our performance of these contracts were unable to obtain or maintain their security clearances, we might be unable to perform these contracts or compete for other projects of this nature, which could adversely affect our revenue.If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our outstanding senior unsecured notes.In April 2011, we issued in a public offering $375.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.0% senior unsecured notes due April 15, 2016 (the 2016 Notes).  In June 2013, we issued in a public offering $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.875% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2023 (the 2023 Notes and together with the 2016 Notes, the Notes).  Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness when due depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our outstanding debt, we may be required to, among other things:•seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;•refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the Notes;•borrow under our existing revolving credit facility;•divert funds that would otherwise be invested in our operations;•repatriate earnings at higher tax rates that are permanently reinvested in foreign locations;•sell selected assets; or•reduce or delay planned capital expenditures or operating expenditures.Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, including the Notes, which could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be possible on economically favorable terms.Restrictions in our revolving credit facility and outstanding debt instruments may limit our activities.Our current revolving credit facility and the Notes impose, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may impose, restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our Company, including to undertake certain transactions, to create certain liens on our assets and to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. If we breach any of the covenants under our revolving credit facility or the indentures governing the Notes and do not obtain appropriate waivers, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable or we may be restricted from further borrowing under our revolving credit facility.Our stock price may be volatile.The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future, as it may be significantly affected by factors including:•global economic conditions generally;•crises in global credit, debt and financial markets;•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and operating results;18•changes in financial estimates or other statements made by securities analysts or others in analyst reports or other publications or our failure to perform in line with those estimates or statements or our published guidance;•changes in market valuations of other semiconductor companies;•rumors and speculation in the press, investment community or on social media about us or other companies in our industry;•announcements by us or our competitors of significant new products, technical innovations, material transactions, acquisitions or dispositions, litigation, capital commitments or revised earnings estimates;•departures of key personnel;•alleged noncompliance with laws, regulations or ethics standards by us or any of our employees, officers or directors; and•negative media publicity targeting us or our suppliers, customers or competitors.The stock market has historically experienced volatility, especially within the semiconductor industry, that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our operating results.Our directors and executive officers periodically sell shares of our common stock in the market, including pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans.  Regardless of the individual's reasons for such sales, securities analysts and investors could view such sales as a negative indicator and our stock price could be adversely affected as a result.ITEM 1B