Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely
    from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We
    undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking
    statements except to the extent required by law.




    
    1



 






    PART I


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS





 



    Company
    Overview


 


    We are a world leader in the design, manufacture and marketing
    of a broad portfolio of high-performance analog, mixed-signal
    and digital signal processing integrated circuits (ICs) used in
    virtually all types of electronic equipment. Since our inception
    in 1965, we have focused on solving the engineering challenges
    associated with signal processing in electronic equipment. Our
    signal processing products play a fundamental role in
    converting, conditioning, and processing real-world phenomena
    such as temperature, pressure, sound, light, speed and motion
    into electrical signals to be used in a wide array of electronic
    devices. As new generations of digital applications evolve, new
    needs for high-performance analog signal processing and digital
    signal processing (DSP) technology are generated. As a result,
    we produce a wide range of innovative products —
    including data converters, amplifiers and linear products, radio
    frequency (RF) ICs, power management products, sensors based on
    micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) technology and other
    sensors, and processing products, including DSP and other
    processors — that are designed to meet the needs of a
    broad base of customers.


 


    We focus on key strategic markets where our signal processing
    technology is often a critical differentiator in our
    customers’ products, in particular, the industrial,
    automotive, consumer and communications markets. Used by over
    60,000 customers worldwide, our products are embedded inside
    many different types of electronic equipment including:


 




     	
     	
     	







    • Industrial process control systems



 


    • Medical imaging equipment





    • Factory automation systems



 


    • Patient monitoring devices





    • Instrumentation and measurement systems



 


    • Wireless infrastructure equipment





    • Energy management systems



 


    • Networking equipment





    • Aerospace and defense electronics



 


    • Optical systems





    • Automobiles



 


    • Digital cameras





    • Digital televisions



 


    • Portable electronic devices








 


    We were founded in 1965 and are incorporated in Massachusetts.
    Our headquarters are near Boston, in Norwood, Massachusetts. In
    addition, we have manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts,
    Ireland, and the Philippines, and have more than thirty design
    facilities worldwide. Our common stock is listed on the New York
    Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbol ADI and is included in
    the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    We maintain a website with the address www.analog.com. We are
    not including the information contained on our website as a part
    of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    We make available free of charge through our website our Annual
    Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q
    and Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    (including exhibits), and amendments to these reports, as soon
    as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and
    Exchange Commission, or SEC. We also make available on our
    website our corporate governance guidelines, the charters for
    our audit committee, compensation committee, and nominating and
    corporate governance committee, our equity award granting
    policies, our code of business conduct and ethics which applies
    to our directors, officers and employees, and our related person
    transaction policy, and such information is available in print
    and free of charge to any shareholder of Analog Devices who
    requests it. In addition, we intend to disclose on our website
    any amendments to, or waivers from, our code of business conduct
    and ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant
    to rules of the SEC or the NYSE.


 



    Industry
    Background


 


    Semiconductor components are the electronic building blocks used
    in electronic systems and equipment. These components are
    classified as either discrete devices (such as individual
    transistors) or integrated circuits (in which a number of
    transistors and other elements are combined to form a more
    complicated electronic circuit). Integrated circuits may be
    divided into two general categories, digital and analog. Digital
    circuits, such as memory





    
    2



 





    devices and microprocessors, generally process on-off electrical
    signals, represented by binary digits, “1” and
    “0.” In contrast, analog integrated circuits monitor,
    condition, amplify or transform continuous analog signals
    associated with physical properties, such as temperature,
    pressure, weight, light, sound or motion, and play an important
    role in bridging between real world phenomena and a variety of
    electronic systems. Analog ICs also provide voltage regulation
    and power control to electronic systems.


 



    Organizational
    Structure


 


    We operate in one reporting segment, which is comprised of two
    separate groups, one focused on products and one focused on end
    markets. The product group is focused on core technology
    development and leadership in converters, amplifiers and RF,
    MEMS, power management, and DSP. The end market-focused
    organization is dedicated to understanding, selecting, and
    resourcing initiatives that are more customized to a particular
    market or application. The focus of this team is to apply the
    full expanse of our broad technology portfolio to more
    integrated and targeted product strategies for the industrial,
    automotive, consumer, and communications markets. The end market
    group includes our sales organization.


 


    These two groups collaborate at all levels. On the one hand, our
    product group develops key technology for use by the end market
    groups, which apply these technologies to specific applications.
    Equally important, the applications expertise within each end
    market group is used to enhance core technology development by
    our product group.


 



    Principal
    Products


 


    We design, manufacture and market a broad line of
    high-performance ICs that incorporate analog, mixed-signal and
    digital signal processing technologies. Our ICs are designed to
    address a wide range of real-world signal processing
    applications. Our product portfolio includes both
    general-purpose products used by a broad range of customers and
    applications, as well as application-specific products designed
    for specific clusters of customers in key target markets. By
    using readily available, high-performance, general-purpose
    products in their systems, our customers can reduce the time
    they need to bring new products to market. Given the high cost
    of developing more customized ICs, our standard products often
    provide a cost-effective solution for many low to medium volume
    applications. However, for some industrial, automotive,
    consumer, and communications products, we focus on working with
    leading customers to design application-specific solutions. We
    begin with our existing core technologies in data conversion,
    amplification, RF, MEMS, power management and DSP, and devise a
    solution to more closely meet the needs of a specific customer
    or group of customers. Because we have already developed the
    core technology for our general-purpose products, we can create
    application-specific solutions quickly.


 


    We produce and market several thousand products and operate in
    one reporting segment. Our ten highest revenue products, in the
    aggregate, accounted for approximately 8% of our revenue for
    fiscal 2011. A breakdown of our fiscal 2011 revenue by product
    category follows.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Percent of
    


 




 


 


    FY 2011
    


 




    Product Category


 


    Revenue


 



 






    Converters



 


 


    45


    %





    Amplifiers/ Radio frequency



 


 


    26


    %





    Other analog



 


 


    14


    %





    Power management & reference



 


 


    7


    %





    Digital signal processing



 


 


    8


    %








 



    Analog
    Products


 


    Our analog and mixed signal IC technology has been the
    foundation of our business for over four decades, and we are one
    of the world’s largest suppliers of high-performance analog
    ICs. Our analog signal processing ICs are primarily
    high-performance devices, offering higher dynamic range, greater
    bandwidth, and other enhanced features. The principal advantages
    these products have versus competitors’ products include
    higher accuracy, higher speed, lower cost per function, smaller
    size, lower power consumption and fewer components, resulting in





    
    3



 





    improved reliability. Our product portfolio includes several
    thousand analog ICs, any one of which can have as many as
    several hundred customers. Our analog ICs typically have long
    product life cycles. Our analog IC customers include original
    equipment manufacturers OEMs and customers who build electronic
    subsystems for integration into larger systems.


 


    Converters — We are a leading supplier of data
    converter products. Data converters translate real-world analog
    signals into digital data and also translate digital data into
    analog signals. Data converters remain our largest and most
    diverse product family and an area where we are continuously
    innovating to enable our customers to redefine and differentiate
    their products. Our converter products combine sampling rates
    and accuracy with the low noise, power, price and small package
    size required by industrial, automotive, consumer, and
    communications electronics.


 


    Amplifiers/Radio Frequency — We are also a
    leading supplier of high-performance amplifiers. Amplifiers are
    used to condition analog signals. High performance amplifiers
    emphasize the performance dimensions of speed and precision.
    Within this product portfolio we provide precision,
    instrumentation, high speed, intermediate frequency/RF,
    broadband, and other amplifiers. We also offer an extensive
    portfolio of precision voltage references that are used in a
    wide variety of applications. Our analog product line also
    includes a broad portfolio of high performance RF ICs covering
    the entire RF signal chain, from industry-leading stand-alone RF
    function blocks such as phase locked loops, frequency
    synthesizers, mixers, modulators, demodulators, and power
    detectors, to highly integrated broadband and short-range single
    chip transceiver solutions. Our high performance RF ICs support
    the high performance requirements of cellular infrastructure and
    a broad range of applications in our target markets.


 


    Other Analog — Also within our analog
    technology portfolio are products that are based on
    Micro-ElectroMechanical Systems (MEMS) technology. This
    technology enables us to build extremely small sensors that
    incorporate an electromechanical structure and the supporting
    analog circuitry for conditioning signals obtained from the
    sensing element. Our MEMS product portfolio includes
    accelerometers used to sense acceleration, gyroscopes used to
    sense rotation, inertial measurement units used to sense
    multiple degrees of freedom combining multiple sensing types
    along multiple axis, and MEMS microphones used to sense audio.
    The majority of our current revenue from MEMS products is
    derived from the automotive, industrial, healthcare, and
    consumer end markets. In addition to our MEMs our other analog
    product category includes isolators that enable designers to
    implement isolation in designs without the cost, size, power,
    performance, and reliability constraints found with
    optocouplers. Our isolators have been designed into hundreds of
    applications, such as universal serial bus isolation in patient
    monitors, where it allows hospitals and physicians to adopt the
    latest advances in computer technology to supervise patient
    health and wirelessly transmit medical records. In smart
    metering applications, our isolators provide reliable
    electrostatic discharge performance that helps reduce meter
    tampering. Likewise, in satellites, where any malfunction can be
    catastrophic, our isolators help protect the power system while
    enabling designers to achieve small form factors.


 


    Power Management & Reference — Power
    management & reference products make up the balance of
    our analog sales. Those products that include functions such as
    power conversion, driver monitoring, sequencing and energy
    management, are developed to complement analog signal chain
    components across core market segments from micro power,
    energy-sensitive battery applications to efficient, high
    performance power systems in infrastructure and industrial
    applications.


 



    Digital
    Signal Processing Products


 


    Digital Signal Processing products (DSPs) complete our product
    portfolio. DSPs are optimized for high-speed numeric
    calculations, which are essential for instantaneous, or
    real-time, processing of digital data generated, in most cases,
    from analog to digital signal conversion. Our DSPs are designed
    to be fully programmable and to efficiently execute specialized
    software programs, or algorithms, associated with processing
    digitized real-time, real-world data. Programmable DSPs are
    designed to provide the flexibility to modify the device’s
    function quickly and inexpensively using software. Our
    general-purpose DSP IC customers typically write their own
    algorithms using software development tools provided by us and
    third-party suppliers. Our DSPs are designed in families of





    
    4



 





    products that share common architectures and therefore can
    execute the same software across a range of products. We support
    these products with easy-to-use development tools, which are
    designed to reduce our customers’ product development costs
    and
    time-to-market.
    Our customers use our products to solve a wide range of signal
    processing challenges across our core market and segment focus
    areas within the industrial, automotive, consumer and
    communications end markets. As an integrated part of our
    customer’s signal chain, there are typically many other
    Analog Devices products connected to our processors including
    converters, audio and video codecs and power management
    solutions.


 



    Markets
    and Applications


 


    During fiscal year 2011, we consolidated the computer end
    market, which represented approximately 1% of fiscal 2011
    revenue, into the consumer end market, and reclassified handset
    revenue, which represented approximately 3% of fiscal 2011
    revenue, from the communications end market to the consumer end
    market for all periods presented. The breakdown of our fiscal
    2011 revenue by end market is set out in the table below.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Percent of
    


 




 


 


    FY 2011
    


 




    End Market


 


    Revenue*


 



 






    Industrial



 


 


    47


    %





    Automotive



 


 


    14


    %





    Consumer



 


 


    20


    %





    Communications



 


 


    20


    %








 



 






    
    
    



    
    * 
    
    
    The sum of the individual percentages do not equal 100% due to
    rounding.




 


    The following describes some of the characteristics of, and
    customer products within, our major end markets:


 


    Industrial — Our industrial market
    includes the following sectors:


 


    Industrial and Instrumentation — Our industrial
    automation applications generally require ICs that offer
    performance greater than that available from
    commodity-level ICs but generally do not have production
    volumes that warrant custom ICs. There is a trend towards
    development of products focused on particular
    sub-applications,
    which incorporate combinations of analog, mixed-signal, and DSP
    ICs to achieve the necessary functionality. Our instrumentation
    customers differentiate themselves by using the highest
    performance analog and mixed-signal ICs available. Our
    industrial and instrumentation market includes applications such
    as:


 




     	
     	
     	







    • Process control systems



 


    • Oscilloscopes





    • Robotics



 


    • Lab, chemical, and environmental analyzers





    • Environmental control systems



 


    • Weigh scales








 


    Defense/Aerospace — The defense, commercial
    avionics and space markets all require high-performance ICs that
    meet rigorous environmental and reliability specifications. Many
    of our analog ICs can be supplied in versions that meet these
    standards. In addition, many products can be supplied to meet
    the standards required for broadcast satellites and other
    commercial space applications. Most of our products sold in this
    market are specially tested versions of products derived from
    our standard product offering. Customer products include:


 




     	
     	
     	







    • Navigation systems



 


    • Radar systems





    • Space and satellite communications



 


    • Security devices








 


    Energy Management — The desire to improve
    energy efficiency, conservation, reliability, and cleanliness is
    driving investments in renewable energy, power transmission and
    distribution systems, electric meters, and other innovative
    areas. The common characteristic behind these efforts is the
    addition of sensing, measurement, and communication technologies
    to electrical infrastructure. Our offerings include both
    standard and application-specific products and are used in
    applications such as:


 




     	
     	
     	







    • Utility meters



 


    • Wind turbines





    • Meter communication modules



 


    • Solar inverters





    • Substation relays and automation equipment



 


    • Building energy automation/control










    
    5



 





    Healthcare — Two significant trends in the
    healthcare market today are the increasing need for higher
    channel counts in medical systems to improve resolution and
    throughput while achieving a lower cost per channel, and the
    movement of highly accurate patient monitoring devices from the
    hospital environment to the home, improving patient care and
    reducing overall healthcare costs. Our innovative technologies
    are designed into a variety of high performance imaging, patient
    monitoring, medical instrumentation, and home health devices.
    Our offerings include both standard and application-specific
    products and are used in applications such as:


 




     	
     	
     	







    • Ultrasound



 


    • Infusion pumps





    • CT scanners



 


    • Clinical lab instrumentation





    • Digital x-ray



 


    • Surgical instrumentation





    • Multi-parameter patient monitors



 


    • Blood analyzers





    • Pulse oximeters



 


    • Activity monitors








 


    Automotive — We develop differentiated
    high performance signal processing solutions that enable
    sophisticated automotive systems addressing the three industry
    macrotrends namely greener, safer and more comfort. Through
    collaboration with manufacturers worldwide, ADI has achieved
    significant market share through a broad portfolio of analog,
    digital and MEMS ICs that increase fuel efficiency, enhance
    vehicle stability and improve the audio/video experience of the
    passengers. Specifically, we have developed products used in
    applications such as:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Green


 


    Safety


 


    Comfort



 






    •



 


    Hybrid electric / electric vehicles


 


    •


 


    Crash sensors in airbag systems


 


    •


 


    Car audio amplifiers





    •



 


    Intelligent battery sensors


 


    •


 


    Electronic stability systems


 


    •


 


    Head unit solutions





    •



 


    Battery monitoring and management systems


 


    •


 


    Advanced driver assistance systems (RADAR/Vision)


 


    •


 


    Rear seat entertainment systems




 


 


 


 


    •


 


    Vehicle dynamic control systems


 


 


 


 








 


    Consumer — Market demand for digital
    entertainment systems and the consumer demand for high quality
    voice transmissions, music, movies and photographs with a high
    degree of interactivity have allowed us to combine analog and
    digital design capability to provide solutions that meet the
    rigorous cost and
    time-to-market
    requirements of the consumer electronics market. The emergence
    of high-performance, feature-rich consumer products has created
    a market for our high-performance ICs with a high level of
    specific functionality. These products include:


 




     	
     	
     	







    • Digital cameras



 


    • High-performance audio/video equipment





    • High-definition televisions and DVD recorders/players



 


    • Portable media devices (cellular handsets, smart
    phones and tablets)





    • Home theater systems



 


    • Computers








 


    Communications — The development of
    broadband, wireless and Internet infrastructures around the
    world has created an important market for our communications
    products. Communications technology involves the acquisition of
    analog signals that are converted from analog to digital and
    digital to analog form during the process of transmitting and
    receiving data. The need for higher speed and reduced power
    consumption, coupled with more reliable, bandwidth-efficient
    communications, has been creating demand for our products. Our
    products are used in the full spectrum of signal processing for
    internet protocol, video streaming and voice communication. In
    wireless and broadband communication applications, our products
    are incorporated into:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	







    •



 


    Cellular basestation equipment


 


    •


 


    Wired networking equipment





    •



 


    Wireless backhowl systems


 


    •


 


    Satellite systems








 


    See Note 4 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for further information about our products by category and end
    market.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    Our markets are characterized by rapid technological changes and
    advances. Accordingly, we make substantial investments in the
    design and development of new products and manufacturing
    processes, and the improvement of existing products and
    manufacturing processes. We spent approximately
    $506 million during fiscal 2011 on the design, development
    and improvement of new and existing products and manufacturing
    processes, compared to approximately $492 million during
    fiscal 2010 and approximately $447 million during fiscal
    2009.




    
    6



 





    Our research and development strategy focuses on building
    technical leadership in core technologies of converters,
    amplifiers and RF, MEMS, power management, and DSP. In support
    of our research and development activities, we employ thousands
    of engineers involved in product and manufacturing process
    development throughout the world.


 



    Patents
    and Other Intellectual Property Rights


 


    We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our
    technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights,
    mask works, trademarks and trade secrets. We have a program to
    file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, mask works
    and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign
    countries where we believe filing for such protection is
    appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and
    confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through
    the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have
    obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the
    United States and in other countries. As of October 29,
    2011, we held approximately 1,700 U.S. patents and
    approximately 700 non-provisional pending U.S. patent
    applications. There can be no assurance, however, that the
    rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing
    products in every jurisdiction. While our patents, copyrights,
    mask works, trademarks and trade secrets provide some advantage
    and protection, we believe our competitive position and future
    success is largely determined by such factors as the system and
    application knowledge, innovative skills, technological
    expertise and management ability and experience of our
    personnel; the range and success of new products being developed
    by us; our market brand recognition and ongoing marketing
    efforts; and customer service and technical support. It is
    generally our policy to seek patent protection for significant
    inventions that may be patented, though we may elect, in certain
    cases, not to seek patent protection even for significant
    inventions, if we determine other protection, such as
    maintaining the invention as a trade secret, to be more
    advantageous. We also have trademarks that are used in the
    conduct of our business to distinguish genuine Analog Devices
    products and we maintain cooperative advertising programs to
    promote our brands and identify products containing genuine
    Analog Devices components.


 



    Sales
    Channels


 


    We sell our products globally through a direct sales force,
    third-party distributors, independent sales representatives and
    via our website. We have direct sales offices, sales
    representatives
    and/or
    distributors in over 40 countries outside North America.


 


    We support our worldwide technical direct field sales efforts by
    an extensive promotional program that includes editorial
    coverage and paid advertising in trade publications, direct mail
    programs, promotional brochures, technical seminars and
    participation in trade shows. We publish and distribute product
    catalogs, applications guides, technical handbooks and detailed
    data sheets for individual products. We also provide this
    information and sell products via our website. We maintain a
    staff of field application engineers who aid customers in
    incorporating our products into their products. In addition, we
    offer a variety of web-based tools that ease product selection
    and aid in the design process for our customers.


 


    We derived approximately 55% of our fiscal 2011 revenue from
    sales made through distributors. These distributors typically
    maintain an inventory of our products. Some of them also sell
    products that compete with our products, including those for
    which we are an alternate source. In all regions of the world,
    we defer revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to
    distributors until the distributors resell the products to their
    customers. We make sales to distributors under agreements that
    allow distributors to receive price adjustment credits and to
    return qualifying products for credit, as determined by us, in
    order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or
    obsolete product from their inventory. These agreements limit
    such returns to a certain percentage of our shipments to that
    distributor during the prior quarter. In addition, distributors
    are allowed to return unsold products if we terminate the
    relationship with the distributor. Additional information
    relating to our sales to distributors is set forth in
    Note 2n in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Segment
    Financial Information and Geographic Information


 


    We operate and track our results in one reportable segment based
    on the aggregation of five operating segments.




    
    7



 





    Through subsidiaries and affiliates, we conduct business in
    numerous countries outside the United States. During fiscal
    2011, we derived approximately 82% of our revenue from customers
    in international markets. Our international business is subject
    to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations,
    including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and
    controls, import and export controls, and other laws, policies
    and regulations of foreign governments. Although we engage in
    hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to currency exchange
    rate fluctuations, our competitive position may be adversely
    affected by changes in the exchange rate of the United States
    dollar against other currencies.


 


    The categorization of sales into geographic regions set forth
    below is based upon the location of the customer.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Geographic Area


 


    % of FY 2011 Revenue


 



 






    United States



 


 


    18


    %





    Rest of North/South America



 


 


    6


    %





    Europe



 


 


    28


    %





    Japan



 


 


    13


    %





    China



 


 


    20


    %





    Rest of Asia



 


 


    15


    %








 


    For further detail regarding revenue and financial information
    about our industry, segment and geographic areas, see our
    Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 4 in the related
    Notes contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Customers


 


    We have tens of thousands of customers worldwide. No sales to an
    individual customer accounted for more than 10% of fiscal year
    2011, 2010, or 2009 revenue. These customers used hundreds of
    different types of our products in a wide range of applications
    spanning the industrial, automotive, consumer and communication
    markets. Our largest single customer, excluding distributors,
    represented approximately 4% of our fiscal 2011 revenue. Our 20
    largest customers, excluding distributors, accounted for
    approximately 32% of our fiscal 2011 revenue.


 



    Seasonality


 


    Sales to customers during our first fiscal quarter may be lower
    than other quarters due to plant shutdowns at some of our
    customers during the holiday season. In general, the seasonality
    for any specific period of time has not had a material impact on
    our results of operations. In addition, as explained in our risk
    factors contained in Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    our revenue is more likely to be influenced on a quarter to
    quarter basis by cyclicality in the semiconductor industry.


 



    Production
    and Raw Materials


 


    Monolithic integrated circuit components are manufactured in a
    sequence of semiconductor production steps that include wafer
    fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the wafer into individual
    “chips,” or dice, assembly of the dice into packages
    and electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form.
    The raw materials used to manufacture these devices include
    silicon wafers, processing chemicals (including liquefied
    gases), precious metals and ceramic and plastic used for
    packaging.


 


    We develop and employ a wide variety of proprietary
    manufacturing processes that are specifically tailored for use
    in fabricating high-performance analog, DSP, mixed-signal and
    MEMS ICs. We also use bipolar and complementary metal-oxide
    semiconductor, or CMOS, wafer fabrication processes.


 


    Our IC products are fabricated both at our production facilities
    and by third-party wafer fabricators. Our products are
    manufactured in our own wafer fabrication facilities using
    proprietary processes and at third-party wafer-fabrication
    foundries using
    sub-micron
    digital CMOS processes. A significant portion of our revenue in
    fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 was from products fabricated at
    third-party wafer-fabrication facilities, primarily Taiwan
    Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC. We operate wafer
    fabrication facilities in Wilmington,





    
    8



 





    Massachusetts and Limerick, Ireland. We also operate test
    facilities located in the Philippines and use third-party
    subcontractors for the assembly and testing of our products.


 


    Capital spending was approximately $123.0 million in fiscal
    2011, compared with approximately $111.6 million in fiscal
    2010. We currently plan to make capital expenditures in the
    range of approximately $100 million to $125 million in
    fiscal 2012.


 


    Our products require a wide variety of components, raw materials
    and external foundry services, most of which we purchase from
    third-party suppliers. We have multiple sources for many of the
    components and materials that we purchase and incorporate into
    our products. However, a large portion of our external wafer
    purchases and foundry services are from a limited number of
    suppliers, primarily TSMC. If TSMC or any of our other key
    suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver
    sufficient quantities of components to us, on the time schedule
    and of the quality that we require, we may be forced to seek to
    engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result
    in significant expenses and disruptions or delays in
    manufacturing, product development and shipment of product to
    our customers. Although we have experienced shortages of
    components, materials and external foundry services from time to
    time, these items have generally been available to us as needed.


 



    Backlog


 


    Backlog at the end of fiscal 2011 was approximately
    $379 million, down from approximately $563 million at
    the end of fiscal 2010. We define backlog as of a particular
    date to mean firm orders from a customer or distributor with a
    requested delivery date within thirteen weeks. Backlog is
    impacted by the tendency of customers to rely on shorter lead
    times available from suppliers, including us, in periods of
    depressed demand. In periods of increased demand, there is a
    tendency towards longer lead times that has the effect of
    increasing backlog and, in some instances, we may not have
    manufacturing capacity sufficient to fulfill all orders. As is
    customary in the semiconductor industry, we allow most orders to
    be cancelled or deliveries to be delayed by customers without
    significant penalty. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog at
    any time should not be used as an indication of our future
    revenue.


 


    We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our
    customers. In some of our markets where end-user demand may be
    particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers
    place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it
    available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to
    make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the
    product. In other instances, we manufacture product based on
    forecasts of customer demand. As a result, we may incur
    inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated
    sales and are subject to the risk of cancellation of orders
    leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog. Further,
    those orders or forecasts may be for products that meet the
    customer’s unique requirements so that those cancelled
    orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable
    products, resulting in potential inventory write-offs. As a
    result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for some of our products
    that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of
    unsaleable product could be substantial.


 



    Government
    Contracts


 


    We estimate that approximately 3% of our fiscal 2011 revenue was
    attributable to sales to the U.S. government and
    U.S. government contractors and subcontractors. Our
    government contract business is predominantly in the form of
    negotiated, firm, fixed-price subcontracts. Most of these
    contracts and subcontracts contain standard provisions relating
    to termination at the election of the U.S. government.


 



    Acquisitions,
    Divestitures and Investments


 


    An element of our business strategy involves expansion through
    the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies
    that allow us to complement our existing product offerings,
    expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce
    or enhance our technological capabilities. From time to time, we
    consider acquisitions and divestitures that may strengthen our
    business.


 


    Additional information relating to our acquisition and
    divestiture activities during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 is set
    forth in Note 2u and Note 6 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.




    
    9



 






    Competition


 


    We believe that competitive performance in the marketplace for
    signal processing products depends upon multiple factors,
    including technological innovation, strength of brand, diversity
    of product portfolio, product performance, technical support,
    delivery capabilities, customer service quality, reliability and
    price, with the relative importance of these factors varying
    among products, markets, and customers.


 


    We compete with a number of semiconductor companies in markets
    that are highly competitive. Our competitors include but are not
    limited to:


 




     	
     	
     	







    • Broadcom Corporation



 


    • Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.





    • Cirrus Logic, Inc. 



 


    • Microchip Technology, Inc.





    • Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. 



 


    • NXP Semiconductors





    • Infineon Technologies



 


    • ST Microelectronics





    • Intersil Corporation



 


    • Silicon Laboratories, Inc.





    • Knowles Electronics



 


    • Texas Instruments, Inc.





    • Linear Technology Corporation



 


 








 


    We believe that our technical innovation emphasizing product
    performance and reliability, supported by our commitment to
    strong customer service and technical support, enables us to
    make a fundamental difference to our customers’
    competiveness in our chosen markets.


 



    Environment,
    Health and Safety


 


    We are committed to protecting the environment and the health
    and safety of our employees, customers and the public. We
    endeavor to adhere to applicable environmental, health and
    safety (EHS) regulatory and industry standards across all of our
    facilities, and to encourage pollution prevention, reduce our
    water and energy consumption, reduce waste generation, and
    strive towards continual improvement. We strive to achieve
    excellence in EHS management practices as an integral part of
    our total quality management system.


 


    Our management systems are certified to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001,
    ISO 9001 and TS16949. We are a member of the Electronic Industry
    Citizenship Coalition, (EICC). Our Sustainability Report, first
    published in 2009, states our commitment to consuming less
    energy and applying fair labor standards, among other things. We
    are not including the information contained in our
    Sustainability Report in, or incorporating it by reference into
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous and
    increasingly strict federal, state local and foreign EHS laws
    and regulations, particularly with respect to the
    transportation, storage, handling, use, emission, discharge and
    disposal of certain chemicals used or produced in the
    semiconductor manufacturing process. Our products are subject to
    increasingly stringent regulations regarding chemical content in
    jurisdictions where we sell products, including the Restriction
    of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive in the European Union
    and China and the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and
    Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) directive in the European
    Union. Contracts with many of our customers reflect these and
    additional EHS compliance standards. Compliance with these laws
    and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital
    expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive
    position. There can be no assurance, however, that current or
    future environmental laws and regulations will not impose costly
    requirements upon us. Any failure by us to comply with
    applicable environmental laws, regulations and contractual
    obligations could result in fines, suspension of production, the
    need to alter manufacturing processes and legal liability.


 



    Employees


 


    As of October 29, 2011, we employed approximately 9,200
    individuals worldwide. Our future success depends in large part
    on the continued service of our key technical and senior
    management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract,
    retain and motivate qualified employees, particularly those
    highly-skilled design, process, test and applications engineers
    involved in the design, support and manufacture of new and
    existing products and processes. We believe that relations with
    our employees are good; however, the competition for such
    personnel is intense, and the loss of key personnel could have a
    material adverse impact on our results of operations and
    financial condition.




    
    10



 







    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other
    documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and
    uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking
    statements contained in this report.


 



    Disruptions
    in global credit and financial markets could materially and
    adversely affect our business and results of
    operations.


 


    There is significant uncertainty about the stability of global
    credit and financial markets. These economic uncertainties
    affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it
    difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business
    activities. High unemployment rates, weakness in commercial and
    residential real estate markets and the tightening of credit by
    financial institutions may lead consumers and businesses to
    postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel,
    decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our
    products. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our
    suppliers or distributors could result in product delays,
    increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
    Financial turmoil may cause financial institutions to
    consolidate or go out of business, which increases the risk that
    the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial
    instruments could differ significantly from the fair value
    assigned to them. During the past few years, many governments
    adopted stimulus or spending programs designed to ease the
    economic impact of the crisis. Some of our businesses benefited
    from these stimulus programs and as these programs conclude,
    those businesses could be negatively impacted. The continuing
    debt crisis in certain European countries could cause the value
    of the Euro to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power
    of our European customers. In addition, the recent downgrade of
    the U.S. credit rating and the ongoing European debt crisis
    have contributed to the instability in global credit markets. We
    are unable to predict the impact of these events, and if
    economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional
    charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of
    assets and our business and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Our
    future revenue, gross margins, operating results and net income
    are difficult to predict and may materially fluctuate.


 


    Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results and net
    income are difficult to predict and may be materially affected
    by a number of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the effects of adverse economic conditions in the United States
    and international markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in customer demand for our products and for end products
    that incorporate our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effectiveness of our efforts to refocus our operations,
    including our ability to reduce our cost structure in both the
    short term and over a longer duration;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us,
    our customers or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    competitive pricing pressures;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability of
    wafers and other raw materials, and manufacturing, assembly and
    test capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    the ability of our third party suppliers, subcontractors and
    manufacturers to supply us with sufficient quantities of
    products or components;




 



     
        • 

    
    any significant decline in our backlog;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing, delay or cancellation of significant customer orders
    and our ability to manage inventory;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of
    engineers and other qualified employees to meet the demands of
    our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in geographic, product or customer mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at efficient
    levels;







    
    11



 




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    potential significant litigation-related costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    the difficulties inherent in forecasting future operating
    expense levels, including with respect to costs associated with
    labor, utilities, transportation and raw materials;




 



     
        • 

    
    the costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide
    environmental regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in our effective tax rates in the United States, Ireland
    or worldwide; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters,
    widespread travel disruptions, security risks, terrorist
    activities, international conflicts and other events beyond our
    control.





 


    In addition, the semiconductor market has historically been
    cyclical and subject to significant economic upturns and
    downturns. Our business is subject to rapid technological
    changes and there can be no assurance, depending on the mix of
    future business, that products stocked in our inventory will not
    be rendered obsolete before we ship them. As a result of these
    and other factors, there can be no assurance that we will not
    experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross
    margins, operating results and net income on a quarterly or
    annual basis. In addition, if our revenue, gross margins,
    operating results and net income do not meet the expectations of
    securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common
    stock may decline.


 



    Changes
    in our effective tax rate may impact our results of
    operations.


 


    A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate,
    including: increases in tax rates in various jurisdictions; the
    jurisdictions in which profits are earned and taxed; the
    resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax
    authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets
    and liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization
    of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for
    tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process
    research and development and impairments of goodwill in
    connection with acquisitions; the lack of sufficient excess tax
    benefits (credits) in our additional paid in capital (APIC) pool
    in situations where our realized tax deductions for certain
    stock-based compensation awards are less than those originally
    anticipated; changes in available tax credits; and changes in
    tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws. Any significant
    increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely
    impact our net income for future periods.


 



    Long-term
    contracts are not typical for us and reductions, cancellations
    or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 


    We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our
    customers. In certain markets where end-user demand may be
    particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers
    place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it
    available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to
    make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the
    product. In other instances, we manufacture product based on
    forecasts of customer demands. As a result, we may incur
    inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated
    sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders,
    leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog. Further,
    orders or forecasts may be for products that meet the
    customer’s unique requirements so that those cancelled or
    unrealized orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of
    unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs. As
    a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the
    products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of
    unsaleable product could be substantial. Incorrect forecasts, or
    reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products
    could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Our
    future success depends upon our ability to continue to innovate,
    improve our products, develop and market new products, and
    identify and enter new markets.


 


    Our success significantly depends on our continued ability to
    improve our products and develop and market innovative new
    products. Product development, innovation and enhancement is
    often a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving
    significant investment in research and development, with no
    assurance of return on investment. There can be no assurance
    that we will be able to develop and introduce new and improved
    products in a timely or efficient manner or that new and
    improved products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance.
    Our products generally must conform to various evolving and
    sometimes competing industry standards, which may adversely
    affect our ability to compete in certain markets or require us
    to incur significant costs. In addition, our





    
    12



 





    customers generally impose very high quality and reliability
    standards on our products, which often change and may be
    difficult or costly to satisfy. Any inability to satisfy
    customer quality standards or comply with industry standards and
    technical requirements may adversely affect demand for our
    products and our results of operations. In addition, our growth
    is dependent on our continued ability to identify and penetrate
    new markets where we have limited experience and competition is
    intense. Also, some of our customers in these markets are less
    established, which could subject us to increased credit risk.
    There can be no assurance that the markets we serve will grow in
    the future, that our existing and new products will meet the
    requirements of these markets, that our products will achieve
    customer acceptance in these markets, that competitors will not
    force price reductions or take market share from us, or that we
    can achieve or maintain adequate gross margins or profits in
    these markets. Furthermore, a decline in demand in one or
    several of our end-user markets could have a material adverse
    effect on the demand for our products and our results of
    operations.


 



    We may
    not be able to compete successfully in markets within the
    semiconductor industry in the future.


 


    We face intense technological and pricing competition in the
    semiconductor industry, and we expect this competition to
    increase in the future, including from companies located outside
    the United States. Many other companies offer products that
    compete with our products. Some have (or as a result of
    consolidation within the industry may have) greater financial,
    manufacturing, technical, sales and marketing resources than we
    have. Some of our competitors may have more advantageous supply
    or development relationships with our current and potential
    customers or suppliers. Our competitors also include emerging
    companies selling specialized products in markets we serve.
    Competition is generally based on design and quality of
    products, product performance, features and functionality, and
    product pricing, availability and capacity, with the relative
    importance of these factors varying among products, markets and
    customers. Existing or new competitors may develop products or
    technologies that more effectively address the demands of our
    customers and markets with enhanced performance, features and
    functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of
    integration or lower cost. Increased competition in certain
    markets has resulted in and may continue to result in declining
    average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market
    share in those markets. There can be no assurance that we will
    be able to compete successfully in the future against existing
    or new competitors, or that our operating results will not be
    adversely affected by increased competition.


 



    We rely
    on third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers for
    some industry-standard wafers, manufacturing processes and
    assembly and test services, and generally cannot control their
    availability or conditions of supply.


 


    We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on suppliers, assembly
    and test subcontractors, and third-party wafer fabricators to
    supply most of our wafers that can be manufactured using
    industry-standard submicron processes. This reliance involves
    several risks, including reduced control over availability,
    capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields,
    and costs. Additionally, we utilize a limited number of
    third-party wafer fabricators, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor
    Manufacturing Company, or TSMC. In addition, these suppliers
    often provide manufacturing services to our competitors and
    therefore periods of increased industry demand may result in
    capacity constraints. In certain instances, the third party
    supplier is the sole source of highly specialized processing
    services. If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to
    manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule
    and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us
    with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek
    to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could
    result in additional expenses and delays in product development
    or shipment of product to our customers. If replacement
    suppliers or manufacturing processes are not available, we may
    also experience delays in product development or shipment which
    could, in turn, result in the temporary or permanent loss of
    customers. A significant portion of our revenue for fiscal 2011
    was from products fabricated at third-party wafer-fabrication
    facilities, primarily TSMC.


 



    The
    markets for semiconductor products are cyclical, and increased
    production may lead to overcapacity and lower prices, and
    conversely, we may not be able to satisfy unexpected demand for
    our products.


 


    The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted
    in periods when demand for our products has increased or
    decreased rapidly. If we expand our operations and workforce too
    rapidly or procure excessive





    
    13



 





    resources in anticipation of increased demand for our products,
    and that demand does not materialize at the pace at which we
    expect or declines, or if we overbuild inventory in a period of
    decreased demand, our operating results may be adversely
    affected as a result of increased operating expenses, reduced
    margins, underutilization of capacity or asset impairment
    charges. These capacity expansions by us and other semiconductor
    manufacturers could also lead to overcapacity in our target
    markets which could lead to price erosion that would adversely
    impact our operating results. Conversely, during periods of
    rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be
    sufficient to satisfy the demand. In addition, we may not be
    able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently
    timely manner, procure adequate resources, or locate suitable
    third-party suppliers, to respond effectively to changes in
    demand for our existing products or to the demand for new
    products requested by our customers, and our current or future
    business could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Our
    semiconductor products are complex and we may be subject to
    product warranty and indemnity claims, which could result in
    significant costs and damage to our reputation and adversely
    affect the market acceptance of our products.


 


    Semiconductor products are highly complex and may contain
    defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are
    developed. We generally warrant our products to our customers
    for one year from the date title passes from us. We invest
    significant resources in the testing of our products; however,
    if any of our products contain defects, we may be required to
    incur additional development and remediation costs, pursuant to
    warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer
    contracts and purchase orders. These problems may divert our
    technical and other resources from other product development
    efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers
    or others, including liability for costs associated with product
    recalls, which may adversely impact our operating results. We
    may also be subject to customer indemnity claims. Our customers
    have on occasion been sued, and may in the future be sued, by
    third parties with respect to infringement or other product
    matters, and those customers may seek indemnification from us
    under the terms and conditions of our sales contracts with them.
    In certain cases, our potential indemnification liability may be
    significant. If any of our products contains defects, or has
    reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation
    may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to
    sell our products to existing and prospective customers and
    could adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We have manufacturing processes that utilize a substantial
    amount of technology as the fabrication of integrated circuits
    is a highly complex and precise process. Minute impurities,
    contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in
    the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer
    manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer
    breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of
    wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be
    nonfunctional. While we have significant expertise in
    semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes
    could become unstable. This instability could result in
    manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our operating results.


 



    We are
    involved in frequent litigation, including regarding
    intellectual property rights, which could be costly to bring or
    defend and could require us to redesign products or pay
    significant royalties.


 


    The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims
    and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property
    rights, including claims arising under our contractual
    obligations to indemnify our customers. Other companies or
    individuals have obtained patents covering a variety of
    semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to
    obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from
    making and selling infringing products, if those patents are
    found to be valid. From time to time, we receive claims from
    third parties asserting that our products or processes infringe
    their patents or other intellectual property rights. In the
    event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim
    against us and a license is not available to us on commercially
    reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced either to
    redesign or to stop production of products incorporating that
    intellectual property, and our operating results could be
    materially and adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary
    to enforce our patents or other of our intellectual property
    rights or to defend us against claims of infringement, and this
    litigation could be costly and divert the attention of our key
    personnel. We could be subject to warranty or product liability
    claims that could lead to significant costs and expenses as we
    defend those claims or pay damage awards. There can be no
    assurance that we are adequately insured to protect against all
    claims and





    
    14



 





    potential liabilities. We may incur costs and expenses relating
    to a recall of our customers’ products due to an alleged
    failure of components we supply. An adverse outcome in
    litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    position or on our operating results or cash flows in the period
    in which the litigation is resolved.


 



    We may be
    unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may
    limit our ability to compete effectively.


 


    Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our
    intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, mask work,
    copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as
    nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our
    proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to
    protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is
    possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties
    may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies, products and
    processes. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries in which we
    design, manufacture, market and sell our products may afford
    little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology.


 


    There can be no assurance that the claims allowed in our issued
    patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In
    addition, any of our existing or future patents may be
    challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights
    granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful
    protection. We may not have foreign patents or pending
    applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and
    applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective
    enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our
    patents and mask works do not adequately protect our technology,
    our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours.
    Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology
    independently or design around our patents.


 


    We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our
    employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to
    control access to and distribution of our technologies,
    documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these
    efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy,
    disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our
    authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with
    our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can
    be no assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary
    information will be maintained in the course of such future
    employment.


 



    We may be
    subject to network disruptions or security breaches that could
    damage our reputation and harm our business and operating
    results.


 


    We may be subject to network disruptions or security breaches
    caused by computer viruses, illegal break-ins or hacking,
    sabotage, acts of vandalism by third parties or terrorism. Our
    security measures or those of our third party service providers
    may not detect or prevent such security breaches. Any such
    compromise of our information security could result in the
    unauthorized publication of our confidential business or
    proprietary information, cause an interruption in our
    operations, result in the unauthorized release of customer or
    employee data, result in a violation of privacy or other laws,
    expose us to a risk of litigation or damage our reputation,
    which could harm our business and operating results.


 



    If we do
    not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our
    business strategy will be adversely affected.


 


    Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the
    recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive
    officers and key management and technical personnel,
    particularly our experienced engineers. The competition for
    these employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or
    more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect
    on our operating results. In addition, there could be a material
    adverse effect on our business should the turnover rates for
    engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if
    we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. We do
    not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our
    officers or employees.


 



    To remain
    competitive, we may need to acquire other companies, purchase or
    license technology from third parties, or enter into other
    strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or
    enhance our existing products.


 


    An element of our business strategy involves expansion through
    the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies
    that allow us to complement our existing product offerings,
    expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce
    or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to
    find businesses that





    
    15



 





    have the technology or resources we need and, if we find such
    businesses, we may not be able to purchase or license the
    technology or resources on commercially favorable terms or at
    all. Acquisitions and technology licenses are difficult to
    identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the
    cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective
    buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory approvals, and
    difficulties related to integration efforts. Both in the
    U.S. and abroad, governmental regulation of acquisitions
    has become more complex, increasing the costs and risks of
    undertaking significant acquisitions. In order to finance a
    potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by
    issuing securities or borrowing money. We may not be able to
    find financing on favorable terms, and the sale of our stock may
    result in the dilution of our existing shareholders or the
    issuance of securities with rights that are superior to the
    rights of our common shareholders.


 


    Acquisitions also involve a number of risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations and
    personnel with our existing businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    diversion of management attention in connection with both
    negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    strain on managerial and operational resources as management
    tries to oversee larger operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the future funding requirements for acquired companies, which
    may be significant;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential loss of key employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired
    companies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increased risk of costly and time-consuming litigation.





 


    If we are unable to successfully address these risks, we may not
    realize some or all of the expected benefits of the acquisition,
    which may have an adverse effect on our business plans and
    operating results.


 



    We rely
    on manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable
    areas, which could affect the availability of supplies and
    services.


 


    We, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on
    internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and
    other
    sub-contractors
    in geologically unstable locations around the world. This
    reliance involves risks associated with the impact of
    earthquakes on us and the semiconductor industry, including
    temporary loss of capacity, availability and cost of key raw
    materials, utilities and equipment and availability of key
    services, including transport of our products worldwide. For
    example, in March 2011, a severe earthquake and tsunami hit
    Japan, which together with resulting damage to certain nuclear
    power plants created widespread destruction and economic
    uncertainty in that region. Japan represented approximately 13%
    of our revenue in fiscal 2011. Any prolonged inability to
    utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our
    subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a
    result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or
    otherwise, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of
    customers for affected products, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    We are
    exposed to business, economic, political, legal and other risks
    through our significant worldwide operations.


 


    We have significant operations and manufacturing facilities
    outside the United States, including in Ireland and the
    Philippines. During fiscal 2011, we derived approximately 82% of
    our revenue from customers in international markets. Although we
    engage in hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to
    currency exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance
    that our competitive position will not be adversely affected by
    changes in the exchange rate of the United States dollar against
    other currencies. Potential interest rate increases, as well as
    high energy costs, could have an adverse impact on industrial
    and consumer spending patterns and could adversely impact demand
    for our products. At October 29, 2011, our principal source
    of liquidity was $3,592.5 million of cash and cash
    equivalents and short-term investments. As of October 29,
    2011, approximately $1,170.5 million of our cash and cash
    equivalents and short-term investments was held in the United
    States and the remaining balance was held outside the United
    States in various foreign subsidiaries. As we intend to reinvest
    certain of our foreign





    
    16



 





    earnings indefinitely, this cash held outside the United States
    is not readily available to meet certain of our cash
    requirements in the United States. We require a substantial
    amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements,
    stock repurchases, cash dividends and acquisitions. If we are
    unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through
    operations, through borrowings under our current credit facility
    or from other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it
    may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings
    that are permanently reinvested, and we may be required to pay
    additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a
    material effect on our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    In addition to being exposed to the ongoing economic cycles in
    the semiconductor industry, we are also subject to the economic,
    political and legal risks inherent in international operations,
    including the risks associated with the recent crisis in global
    credit and financial markets, ongoing uncertainties and
    political and economic instability in many countries around the
    world, as well as economic disruption from acts of terrorism and
    the response to them by the United States and its allies. Other
    business risks associated with global operations include
    increased managerial complexities, air transportation
    disruptions, expropriation, currency controls, currency exchange
    rate movement, additional costs related to foreign taxes,
    tariffs and freight rate increases, exposure to different
    business practices and legal standards, particularly with
    respect to price protection, competition practices, intellectual
    property, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, trade
    and travel restrictions, pandemics, import and export license
    requirements and restrictions, difficulties in staffing and
    managing worldwide operations, and accounts receivable
    collections.


 


    We expect to continue to expand our business and operations in
    China. Our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely
    affected by China’s continuously evolving laws and
    regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and
    export tariffs, currency controls, environmental regulations,
    and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those
    rights. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be
    inconsistent. In addition, changes in the political environment,
    governmental policies or
    U.S.-China
    relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or
    their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our
    proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation,
    restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations,
    which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and
    operating results.


 



    Our
    operating results are dependent on the performance of
    independent distributors.


 


    A significant portion of our sales are through independent
    distributors that are not under our control. These independent
    distributors generally represent product lines offered by
    several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts
    applied to our products or they could terminate their
    representation of us. We generally do not require letters of
    credit from our distributors and are not protected against
    accounts receivable default or declarations of bankruptcy by
    these distributors. Our inability to collect open accounts
    receivable could adversely affect our operating results.
    Termination of a significant distributor, whether at our
    initiative or the distributor’s initiative, could disrupt
    our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable
    replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected.


 



    We are
    subject to increasingly strict environmental health and safety
    (EHS) regulations, which could increase our expenses and affect
    our operating results.


 


    Our industry is subject to increasingly strict EHS requirements,
    particularly those environmental requirements that control and
    restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage
    and disposal of certain chemicals used or produced in the
    semiconductor manufacturing process. Public attention to
    environmental concerns continues to increase, and our customers
    routinely include stringent environmental standards in their
    contracts with us. Changes in environmental laws or regulations
    may require us to invest in costly equipment or alter the way
    our products are made. In addition, we use hazardous and other
    regulated materials that subject us to risks of strict liability
    for damages caused by potential or actual releases of such
    materials. Any failure to control such materials adequately or
    to comply with statutory or regulatory standards or contractual
    obligations could result in liability for damages, penalties,
    and civil and criminal fines, and might damage our reputation,
    increase our expenses, and adversely affect our operating
    results.




    
    17



 





    New climate change laws and regulations could require us to
    change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute
    materials that may cost more or be less available for our
    manufacturing operations. In addition, new restrictions on
    emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could
    result in significant costs for us. The Commonwealth of
    Massachusetts has adopted greenhouse gas regulations, and the
    U.S. Congress may pass federal greenhouse gas legislation
    in the future. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
    (EPA) has issued greenhouse gas reporting regulations that may
    apply to certain of our operations. EPA is developing other
    climate change-based regulations, as are certain states, that
    also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our
    operating results. We expect increased worldwide regulatory
    activity relating to climate change in the future. Compliance
    with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on
    our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or
    competitive position. There is no assurance that the cost to
    comply with current or future EHS laws and regulations will not
    exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition
    or results of operations. Additionally, any failure by us to
    comply with applicable EHS requirements or contractual
    obligations could result in penalties, civil and criminal fines,
    suspension of or changes to production, legal liability and
    damage to our reputation.


 



    If we are
    unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to
    service our debt obligations, including making payments on our
    two issuances of $375 million senior unsecured notes or our
    $145 million term loan facility.


 


    In fiscal 2009, we issued in a public offering $375 million
    aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior unsecured notes
    due July 1, 2014. In April 2011, we issued in a public
    offering $375 million aggregate principal amount of
    3.0% senior unsecured notes due April 15, 2016. In
    December 2010, Analog Devices Holdings B.V., a wholly owned
    subsidiary of ours, entered into a $145 million term loan
    facility which matures on December 22, 2013. Our ability to
    make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness when
    due depends upon our future performance, which will be subject
    to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial,
    business and other factors affecting our consolidated
    operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are
    unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the
    future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other
    things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness,
    including the notes;




 



     
        • 

    
    sell selected assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or




 



     
        • 

    
    reduce or delay planned operating expenditures.





 


    Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service
    our debt, including the notes or our term loan facility, which
    could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, any
    such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be
    possible on economically favorable terms.


 



    Restrictions
    in our revolving credit and term loan facilities and outstanding
    debt instruments may limit our activities.


 


    Our current revolving credit and term loan facilities and our
    5.0% and 3.0% senior unsecured notes impose, and future
    debt instruments to which we may become subject, may impose
    restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that
    could otherwise benefit our company, including to undertake
    certain transactions, to create certain liens on our assets and
    to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness. Our ability to comply
    with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on
    our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic
    conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond
    our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates,
    changes in technology and changes in the level of competition.
    In addition, our credit and term loan facilities require us to
    maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. If we
    breach any of the covenants under our credit or term loan
    facilities or the indenture governing our outstanding notes and
    do not obtain appropriate waivers, then, subject to applicable
    cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness thereunder could be
    declared immediately due and payable.




    
    18



 






    Our stock
    price may be volatile.


 


    The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the
    past and may be volatile in the future, as it may be
    significantly affected by the following factors:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    crises in global credit, debt and financial markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and operating
    results;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our
    failure to perform in line with those estimates or our published
    guidance;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in market valuations of other semiconductor companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements by us or our competitors of significant new
    products, technical innovations, acquisitions or dispositions,
    litigation or capital commitments;




 



     
        • 

    
    departures of key personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    actual or perceived noncompliance with corporate responsibility
    or ethics standards by us or any of our employees, officers or
    directors; and




 



     
        • 

    
    negative media publicity targeting us or our competitors.





 


    The stock market has historically experienced volatility,
    especially within the semiconductor industry, that often has
    been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These
    market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless
    of our operating results.




    
    19



 







    
    



    
    ITEM 1B