ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other
    documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and
    uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking
    statements contained in this report.


 



    The
    current crisis in global credit and financial markets could
    further materially and adversely affect our business and results
    of operations.


 


    As widely reported, global credit and financial markets continue
    to experience disruptions, including diminished liquidity and
    credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines
    in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and
    uncertainty about economic stability. Our business has been
    significantly affected by these conditions. While there are
    signs that conditions may be improving, there is no certainty
    that this trend will continue or that credit and financial
    markets and confidence in economic conditions will not
    deteriorate again. These economic uncertainties affect
    businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult
    to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.
    Accelerating layoffs, falling housing markets and the tightening
    of credit by financial institutions may lead consumers and
    businesses to continue to postpone spending, which may cause our
    customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future
    orders with us. In addition, the inability of customers to
    obtain credit could impair their ability to make timely payments
    to us. Customer insolvencies in key industries, such as the
    automotive industry, could also negatively impact our revenues
    and our ability to collect receivables. In addition, financial
    difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could
    result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults
    and inventory challenges. The financial turmoil could cause
    financial institutions to consolidate or go out of business,
    which increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the
    future on our financial instruments could differ significantly
    from the fair value assigned to them. We are unable to predict
    the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in
    the credit and financial markets and adverse global economic
    conditions, and if the current uncertain economic conditions
    continue or further deteriorate, we may record additional
    charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of
    assets and our business and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Our
    future revenue, gross margins, operating results and net income
    are difficult to predict and may materially fluctuate.


 


    Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results and net
    income are difficult to predict and may be materially affected
    by a number of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the effects of adverse economic conditions in the United States
    and international markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in customer demand for our products and for end products
    that incorporate our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effectiveness of our efforts to refocus our operations,
    including our ability to reduce our cost structure in both the
    short term and over a longer duration;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us,
    our customers or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    competitive pricing pressures;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability of
    wafers and other raw materials, and manufacturing, assembly and
    test capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    any significant decline in our backlog;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing, delay or cancellation of significant customer orders
    and our ability to manage inventory;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of
    engineers and other qualified employees to meet the demands of
    our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in geographic, product or customer mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at efficient
    levels;







    
    10



 




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    potential significant litigation-related costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    the difficulties inherent in forecasting future operating
    expense levels, including with respect to costs associated with
    labor, utilities, transportation and raw materials;




 



     
        • 

    
    the costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide
    environmental regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in our effective tax rates in the United States, Ireland
    or worldwide; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters,
    security risks, terrorist activities, international conflicts
    and other events beyond our control.





 


    In addition, the semiconductor market has historically been
    cyclical and subject to significant economic upturns and
    downturns. Our business is subject to rapid technological
    changes and there can be no assurance, depending on the mix of
    future business, that products stocked in our inventory will not
    be rendered obsolete before we ship them. As a result of these
    and other factors, there can be no assurance that we will not
    experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross
    margins, operating results and net income on a quarterly or
    annual basis. In addition, if our revenue, gross margins,
    operating results and net income do not meet the expectations of
    securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common
    stock may decline.


 



    Changes
    in our effective tax rate may impact our results of
    operations.


 


    A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate,
    including: the jurisdictions in which profits are earned and
    taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with
    various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our
    deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to income taxes
    upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses
    not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of
    acquired in-process research and development and impairments of
    goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available
    tax credits; and changes in tax laws or the interpretation of
    such tax laws. Any significant increase in our future effective
    tax rates could adversely impact our net income for future
    periods.


 



    Long-term
    contracts are not typical for us and reductions, cancellations
    or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 


    We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our
    customers. In certain markets where end-user demand may be
    particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers
    place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it
    available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to
    make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the
    product. In other instances, we manufacture product based on
    forecasts of customer demands. As a result, we may incur
    inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated
    sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders,
    leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog. Further,
    orders or forecasts may be for products that meet the
    customer’s unique requirements so that those cancelled or
    unrealized orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of
    unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs. As
    a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the
    products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of
    unsaleable product could be substantial. Incorrect forecasts, or
    reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products
    could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Our
    future success depends upon our ability to continue to innovate,
    improve our products, develop and market new products, and
    identify and enter new markets.


 


    Our success significantly depends on our continued ability to
    improve our products and develop and market innovative new
    products. Product development, innovation and enhancement is
    often a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving
    significant investment in research and development, with no
    assurance of return on investment. There can be no assurance
    that we will be able to develop and introduce new and improved
    products in a timely or efficient manner or that new and
    improved products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance.
    Our products generally must conform to various evolving and
    sometimes competing industry standards, which may adversely
    affect our ability to compete in certain markets or require us
    to incur significant costs. In addition, our customers generally
    impose very high quality and reliability standards on our
    products, which often change and may be difficult or costly to
    satisfy. Any inability to satisfy customer quality standards or
    comply with industry





    
    11



 





    standards and technical requirements may adversely affect demand
    for our products and our results of operations. In addition, our
    growth is dependent on our continued ability to identify and
    penetrate new markets where we have limited experience and
    competition is intense. Also, some of our customers in these
    markets are less established, which could subject us to
    increased credit risk. There can be no assurance that the
    markets we serve will grow in the future, that our existing and
    new products will meet the requirements of these markets, that
    our products will achieve customer acceptance in these markets,
    that competitors will not force price reductions or take market
    share from us, or that we can achieve or maintain adequate gross
    margins or profits in these markets. Furthermore, a decline in
    demand in one or several of our end-user markets could have a
    material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our
    results of operations.


 



    We may
    not be able to compete successfully in markets within the
    semiconductor industry in the future.


 


    We face intense technological and pricing competition in the
    semiconductor industry, and we expect this competition to
    increase in the future. Many other companies offer products that
    compete with our products. Some have greater financial,
    manufacturing, technical and marketing resources than we have.
    Some of our competitors may have more advantageous supply or
    development relationships with our current and potential
    customers or suppliers. Our competitors also include emerging
    companies selling specialized products in markets we serve.
    Competition is generally based on design and quality of
    products, product performance, features and functionality, and
    product pricing, availability and capacity, with the relative
    importance of these factors varying among products, markets and
    customers. Existing or new competitors may develop products or
    technologies that more effectively address the demands of our
    customers and markets with enhanced performance, features and
    functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of
    integration or lower cost. Increased competition in certain
    markets has resulted in and may continue to result in declining
    average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market
    share in those markets. There can be no assurance that we will
    be able to compete successfully in the future against existing
    or new competitors, or that our operating results will not be
    adversely affected by increased competition.


 



    We rely
    on third-party subcontractors and manufacturers for some
    industry-standard wafers and assembly and test services, and
    generally cannot control their availability or conditions of
    supply.


 


    We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on assembly and test
    subcontractors and on third-party wafer fabricators to supply
    most of our wafers that can be manufactured using
    industry-standard submicron processes. This reliance involves
    several risks, including reduced control over availability,
    capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields,
    quality assurance and costs. Additionally, we utilize a limited
    number of third-party wafer fabricators, primarily Taiwan
    Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC. These suppliers
    manufacture components in accordance with our proprietary
    designs and specifications. In addition, these suppliers often
    provide manufacturing services to our competitors and therefore
    periods of increased industry demand may result in capacity
    constraints. If these suppliers are unable or unwilling to
    manufacture and deliver sufficient quantities of components to
    us on the time schedule and of the quality that we require, we
    may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement
    suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays
    in product development or shipment of product to our customers.
    Approximately 49% of our fiscal year 2009 revenue was from
    products fabricated at third-party wafer-fabrication facilities,
    primarily TSMC.


 



    The
    markets for semiconductor products are cyclical, and increased
    production may lead to overcapacity and lower prices, and
    conversely, we may not be able to satisfy unexpected demand for
    our products.


 


    The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted
    in periods when demand for our products has increased or
    decreased rapidly. If we expand our operations and workforce too
    rapidly or procure excessive resources in anticipation of
    increased demand for our products, and that demand does not
    materialize at the pace at which we expect or declines, or if we
    overbuild inventory in a period of decreased demand, our
    operating results may be adversely affected as a result of
    increased operating expenses, reduced margins, underutilization
    of capacity or asset impairment charges. These capacity
    expansions by us and other semiconductor manufacturers could
    also lead to overcapacity in our target markets which could lead
    to price erosion that would adversely impact our operating
    results. Conversely, during periods of rapid increases in
    demand, our available capacity may not be sufficient to satisfy
    the demand. In addition, we may not be able to expand our
    workforce and operations in a





    
    12



 





    sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources, or
    locate suitable third-party suppliers, to respond effectively to
    changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for
    new products requested by our customers, and our current or
    future business could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Our
    semiconductor products are complex and we may be subject to
    product warranty and indemnity claims, which could result in
    significant costs and damage to our reputation and adversely
    affect the market acceptance of our products.


 


    Semiconductor products are highly complex and may contain
    defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are
    developed. We generally warrant our products to our customers
    for one year from the date title passes from us. We invest
    significant resources in the testing of our products; however,
    if any of our products contain defects, we may be required to
    incur additional development and remediation costs, pursuant to
    warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer
    contracts and purchase orders. These problems may divert our
    technical and other resources from other product development
    efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers
    or others, including liability for costs associated with product
    recalls, which may adversely impact our operating results. We
    may also be subject to customer indemnity claims. Our customers
    have on occasion been sued, and may in the future be sued by
    third parties with respect to infringement or other product
    matters, and those customers may seek indemnification from us
    under the terms and conditions of our sales contracts with them.
    In certain cases, our potential indemnification liability may be
    significant. There can be no assurance that we are adequately
    insured to protect against all claims and potential liabilities.
    If any of our products contains defects, or has reliability,
    quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be
    damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our
    products to existing and prospective customers and could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We have manufacturing processes that utilize a substantial
    amount of technology as the fabrication of integrated circuits
    is a highly complex and precise process. Minute impurities,
    contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in
    the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer
    manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer
    breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of
    wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be
    nonfunctional. While we have significant expertise in
    semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes
    could become unstable. This instability could result in
    manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our operating results.


 



    We are
    involved in frequent litigation, including regarding
    intellectual property rights, which could be costly to bring or
    defend and could require us to redesign products or pay
    significant royalties.


 


    The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims
    and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property
    rights, including claims arising under our contractual
    obligations to indemnify our customers. Other companies or
    individuals have obtained patents covering a variety of
    semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to
    obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from
    making and selling infringing products, if those patents are
    found to be valid. From time to time, we receive claims from
    third parties asserting that our products or processes infringe
    their patents or other intellectual property rights. In the
    event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim
    against us and a license is not available to us on commercially
    reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced either to
    redesign or to stop production of products incorporating that
    intellectual property, and our operating results could be
    materially and adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary
    to enforce our patents or other of our intellectual property
    rights or to defend us against claims of infringement, and this
    litigation could be costly and divert the attention of our key
    personnel. We could be subject to warranty or product liability
    claims that could lead to significant costs and expenses as we
    defend those claims or pay damage awards. There can be no
    assurance that we are adequately insured to protect against all
    claims and potential liabilities. We may incur costs and
    expenses relating to a recall of our customers’ products
    due to an alleged failure of components we supply. An adverse
    outcome in litigation could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial position or on our operating results or cash flows
    in the period in which the litigation is resolved.




    
    13



 






    We may be
    unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may
    limit our ability to compete effectively.


 


    Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our
    intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, mask work,
    copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as
    nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our
    proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to
    protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is
    possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties
    may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies, products and
    processes. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries in which we
    design, manufacture, market and sell our products may afford
    little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology.


 


    There can be no assurance that the claims allowed in our issued
    patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In
    addition, any of our existing or future patents may be
    challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights
    granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful
    protection. We may not have foreign patents or pending
    applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and
    applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective
    enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our
    patents do not adequately protect our technology, our
    competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our
    competitors may also be able to develop similar technology
    independently or design around our patents.


 


    We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our
    employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to
    control access to and distribution of our technologies,
    documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these
    efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy,
    disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our
    authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with
    our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can
    be no assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary
    information will be maintained in the course of such future
    employment.


 



    If we do
    not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our
    business strategy will be adversely affected.


 


    Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the
    recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive
    officers and key management and technical personnel,
    particularly our experienced engineers. The competition for
    these employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or
    more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect
    on our operating results. In addition, there could be a material
    adverse effect on our business should the turnover rates for
    engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if
    we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. We do
    not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our
    officers or employees.


 



    To remain
    competitive, we may need to acquire other companies, purchase or
    license technology from third parties, or enter into other
    strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or
    enhance our existing products.


 


    An element of our business strategy involves expansion through
    the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies
    that allow us to complement our existing product offerings,
    expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce
    or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to
    find businesses that have the technology or resources we need
    and, if we find such businesses, we may not be able to purchase
    or license the technology or resources on commercially favorable
    terms or at all. Acquisitions and technology licenses are
    difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons,
    including the cost of potential transactions, competition among
    prospective buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory
    approvals, and difficulties related to integration efforts. In
    order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise
    additional funds by issuing securities or borrowing money. We
    may not be able to find financing on favorable terms, and the
    sale of our stock may result in the dilution of our existing
    shareholders or the issuance of securities with rights that are
    superior to the rights of our common shareholders.


 


    Acquisitions also involve a number of risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations and
    personnel with our existing businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    diversion of management attention in connection with both
    negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the assets;







    
    14



 




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    strain on managerial and operational resources as management
    tries to oversee larger operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the future funding requirements for acquired companies, which
    may be significant;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential loss of key employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired
    companies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increased risk of costly and time-consuming litigation.





 


    If we are unable to successfully address these risks, we may not
    realize some or all of the expected benefits of the acquisition,
    which may have an adverse effect on our business plans and
    operating results.


 



    We rely
    on manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable
    areas, which could affect the availability of supplies and
    services.


 


    We, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on
    internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and
    other
    sub-contractors
    in geologically unstable locations around the world. This
    reliance involves risks associated with the impact of
    earthquakes on us and the semiconductor industry, including
    temporary loss of capacity, availability and cost of key raw
    materials, utilities and equipment and availability of key
    services, including transport of our products worldwide. Any
    prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing
    facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer
    fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, natural disaster,
    unavailability of utilities or otherwise, would have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    We are
    exposed to business, economic, political, legal and other risks
    through our significant worldwide operations.


 


    We have significant operations and manufacturing facilities
    outside the United States, including in Ireland and the
    Philippines. During fiscal 2009, approximately 80% of our
    revenue was derived from customers in international markets.
    Although we engage in hedging transactions to reduce our
    exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no
    assurance that our competitive position will not be adversely
    affected by changes in the exchange rate of the United States
    dollar against other currencies. Potential interest rate
    increases, as well as high energy costs, could have an adverse
    impact on industrial and consumer spending patterns and could
    adversely impact demand for our products. While a majority of
    our cash is generated outside the United States, we require a
    substantial amount of cash in the United Sates for operating
    requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends and
    acquisitions. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash
    requirements through operations, by efficient and timely
    repatriations of overseas cash, through borrowings under our
    current credit facility or from other sources of cash obtained
    at an acceptable cost, our business strategies and operating
    results could be adversely affected.


 


    In addition to being exposed to the ongoing economic cycles in
    the semiconductor industry, we are also subject to the economic,
    political and legal risks inherent in international operations,
    including the risks associated with the current crisis in global
    credit and financial markets, ongoing uncertainties and
    political and economic instability in many countries around the
    world, as well as economic disruption from acts of terrorism and
    the response to them by the United States and its allies. Other
    business risks associated with international operations include
    increased managerial complexities, air transportation
    disruptions, expropriation, currency controls, currency exchange
    rate movement, additional costs related to foreign taxes,
    tariffs and freight rate increases, exposure to different
    business practices and legal standards, particularly with
    respect to price protection, intellectual property and
    environmental compliance, trade and travel restrictions,
    pandemics, import and export license requirements and
    restrictions, difficulties in staffing and managing worldwide
    operations, and accounts receivable collections.


 


    We expect to continue to expand our business and operations in
    China. Our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely
    affected by China’s continuously evolving laws and
    regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and
    export tariffs, currency controls, environmental regulations,
    and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those
    rights. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be
    inconsistent, as there exists a high degree of fragmentation
    among regulatory authorities resulting in uncertainties as to
    which authorities have jurisdiction over particular parties or
    transactions. In addition, changes in the political environment,
    governmental





    
    15



 





    policies or
    U.S.-China
    relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or
    their interpretation and enforcement, increased taxation,
    restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations,
    which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and
    operating results.


 



    Our
    operating results are dependent on the performance of
    independent distributors.


 


    A significant portion of our sales are through independent
    distributors that are not under our control. These independent
    distributors generally represent product lines offered by
    several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts
    applied to our products or terminate their representation of us.
    We generally do not require letters of credit from our
    distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable
    default or bankruptcy by these distributors. Our inability to
    collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our
    operating results. Termination of a significant distributor,
    whether at our initiative or the distributor’s initiative,
    could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find
    suitable replacements, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.


 



    We are
    subject to increasingly strict environmental regulations, which
    could increase our expenses and affect our operating
    results.


 


    Our industry is subject to increasingly strict environmental
    regulations that control and restrict the use, transportation,
    emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals,
    gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor
    manufacturing process. Public attention on environmental
    controls has continued to increase, and our customers routinely
    include stringent environmental standards in their contracts
    with us. Changes in environmental regulations may require us to
    invest in potentially costly pollution control equipment or
    alter the way our products are made. In addition, we use
    hazardous and other regulated materials that subject us to risks
    of strict liability for damages caused by accidental releases,
    regardless of fault. Any failure to control such materials
    adequately or to comply with regulatory restrictions or
    contractual obligations could increase our expenses and
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    New climate change regulations could require us to change our
    manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may
    cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations.
    In addition, new restrictions on carbon dioxide or other
    greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs for
    us. Greenhouse gas legislation has been introduced in
    Massachusetts and the United States legislatures and we expect
    increased worldwide regulatory activity in the future. The cost
    of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other
    climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse
    effect on our business plans and operating results.


 



    If we are
    unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to
    service our debt obligations, including making payments on our
    $375 million senior unsecured notes.


 


    In the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we issued in a public
    offering $375 million aggregate principal amount of
    5.0% senior unsecured notes due July 1, 2014. Our
    ability to make payments of principal and interest on our
    indebtedness when due depends upon our future performance, which
    will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles
    and financial, business and other factors affecting our
    consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control.
    If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from
    operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required
    to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness,
    including the notes;




 



     
        • 

    
    sell selected assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or




 



     
        • 

    
    reduce or delay planned operating expenditures.





 


    Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service
    our debt, including the notes, which could negatively impact our
    financial results. In addition, any such financing, refinancing
    or sale of assets might not be available on economically
    favorable terms.




    
    16



 






    Restrictions
    in our credit facility and outstanding debt instruments may
    limit our activities.


 


    Our current credit facility and our 5.0% senior unsecured
    notes impose, and future debt instruments to which we may become
    subject may impose, restrictions that limit our ability to
    engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company,
    including to undertake certain transactions, to create certain
    liens on our assets and to incur certain subsidiary
    indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these financial
    restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future
    performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions
    and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control
    such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in
    technology and changes in the level of competition. In addition,
    our credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with
    specified financial ratios. If we breach any of the covenants
    under our credit facility or the indenture governing our
    outstanding notes and do not obtain appropriate waivers, then,
    subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness
    thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable.


 



    Our stock
    price may be volatile.


 


    The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the
    past and may be volatile in the future, as it may be
    significantly affected by the following factors:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    crises in global credit and financial markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and operating
    results;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our
    failure to perform in line with those estimates or our published
    guidance;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in market valuations of other semiconductor companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements by us or our competitors of significant new
    products, technical innovations, acquisitions or dispositions,
    litigation or capital commitments;




 



     
        • 

    
    departures of key personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    actual or perceived noncompliance with corporate responsibility
    or ethics standards by us or any of our employees, officers or
    directors; and




 



     
        • 

    
    negative media publicity targeting us or our competitors.





 


    The stock market has historically experienced volatility,
    especially within the semiconductor industry, that often has
    been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These
    market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless
    of our operating results.






 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B