Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Item 2, “Properties,” includes information relating to the Company’s foreign and U.S. operations.  Geographic financial information is set forth in Note 18 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.




  



  







  










Item 1.


BUSINESS (Continued)







Available Information




The Company’s internet address is http://www.adm.com.  The Company makes available, free of charge, through its website, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; Directors and Officers Forms 3, 4, and 5; and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).




In addition, the Company makes available, through its website, the Company’s Business Code of Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the written charters of the Audit, Compensation/Succession, Nominating/Corporate Governance, and Executive Committees.




References to our website address in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, or should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website.  Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.




The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC.  The SEC’s internet address is http://www.sec.gov.











Item 1A.


RISK FACTORS







The availability and prices of the agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products the Company procures, transports, stores, processes, and merchandises can be affected by weather conditions, disease, government programs, competition, and various other factors beyond the Company’s control and could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.




The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops.  These factors have historically caused volatility in the availability and prices of agricultural commodities and, consequently, in the Company’s operating results and working capital requirements.  Reduced supply of agricultural commodities due to weather-related factors or other reasons could adversely affect the Company’s profitability by increasing the cost of raw materials and/or limiting the Company’s ability to procure, transport, store, process, and merchandise agricultural commodities in an efficient manner.  For example, the drought in North America in 2012 reduced the availability of corn and soybean inventories while prices increased.  If the drought persists through 2013, the availability of agricultural commodities could be further diminished and prices could continue to be higher.  High and volatile commodity prices can adversely affect the Company’s ability to meet its liquidity needs.







  



  







  










Item 1A.


RISK FACTORS (Continued)







The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates.




The Company faces significant competition in each of its businesses and has numerous competitors.  The company competes for the acquisition of inputs such as agricultural commodities, workforce, and other materials and supplies.  Additionally, competitors offer similar products and services, as well as alternative products and services, to the Company’s customers.  The Company is dependent on being able to generate net sales and other operating income in excess of cost of products sold in order to obtain margins, profits, and cash flows to meet or exceed its targeted financial performance measures and provide cash for operating, working capital, dividend, or capital expenditure needs.  Competition impacts the Company’s ability to generate and increase its gross profit as a result of the following factors.  Pricing of the Company’s products is partly dependent upon industry processing capacity, which is impacted by competitor actions to bring on-line idled capacity or to build new production capacity.  Many of the products bought and sold by the Company are global commodities or are derived from global commodities.  The markets for global commodities are highly price competitive and in many cases the commodities are subject to substitution.  To compete effectively, the Company focuses on improving efficiency in its production and distribution operations, developing and maintaining appropriate market share, and providing high levels of customer service.  Competition could increase the Company’s costs to purchase raw materials, lower selling prices of its products, or reduce the Company’s market share, which may result in lower and more inefficient operating rates and reduced gross profit.




Fluctuations in energy prices could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.




The Company’s operating costs and the selling prices of certain finished products are sensitive to changes in energy prices.  The Company’s processing plants are powered principally by electricity, natural gas, and coal.  The Company’s transportation operations are dependent upon diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products.  Significant increases in the cost of these items, including any consequences of regulation or taxation of greenhouse gases, could adversely affect the Company’s production costs and operating results.




The Company has certain finished products, such as ethanol and biodiesel, which are closely related to, or may be substituted for, petroleum products.  Therefore, the selling prices of ethanol and biodiesel can be impacted by the selling prices of gasoline and diesel fuel.  A significant decrease in the price of gasoline or diesel fuel could result in a significant decrease in the selling price of the Company’s ethanol and biodiesel and could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results.




The Company is subject to economic downturns, which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.




The Company conducts its business and has substantial assets located in many countries and geographic areas. The Company’s operations are principally in the United States and developed countries in Western Europe and South America, but the Company also operates in, or plans to expand or develop its business in, emerging market areas such as Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Both developed and emerging market areas are subject to impacts of economic downturns, including decreased demand for the Company’s products, reduced availability of credit, or declining credit quality of the Company’s suppliers, customers, and other counterparties.  In addition, emerging market areas could be subject to more volatile economic, political and market conditions.  Economic downturns, such as what has occurred in Europe brought about by the European debt crisis, and volatile market conditions could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and ability to execute its business strategies.







  



  







  










Item 1A.


RISK FACTORS (Continued)







Government policies, mandates, and regulations, in general; government policies, mandates, and regulations specifically affecting the agricultural sector and related industries; and political instability and other risks of doing business globally could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.




Agricultural production and trade flows are subject to government policies, mandates, and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, including policies related to genetically modified organisms, renewable fuel, and low carbon fuel mandates, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded, the volume and types of imports and exports, the availability and competitiveness of feedstocks as raw materials, the viability and volume of production of certain of the Company’s products, and industry profitability.  For example, changes in government policies or regulations of ethanol and biodiesel can have a significant impact on the Company’s operating results.  In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Future government policies may adversely affect the supply of, demand for, and prices of the Company’s products; restrict the Company’s ability to do business in its existing and target markets; and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results.




The Company’s operating results could be affected by changes in other governmental policies, mandates, and regulations including monetary, fiscal and environmental policies, laws, and regulations, and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations.  These risks include but are not limited to changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, currency exchange fluctuations, burdensome taxes and tariffs, enforceability of legal agreements and judgments, adverse tax, administrative agency or judicial outcomes, and regulation or taxation of greenhouse gases.  International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities, and war, could limit the Company’s ability to transact business in these markets and could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results.




The Company is subject to industry-specific risks which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.




The Company is subject to risks which include, but are not limited to, product quality or contamination; shifting consumer preferences; federal, state, and local food processing regulations; socially acceptable farming practices; environmental, health and safety regulations; and customer product liability claims.  The liability which could result from certain of these risks may not always be covered by, or could exceed liability insurance related to product liability and food safety matters maintained by the Company.  In addition, negative publicity caused by product liability and food safety matters may damage the Company’s reputation.  The occurrence of any of the matters described above could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results.




Certain of the Company’s merchandised commodities and finished products are used as ingredients in livestock and poultry feed.  The Company is subject to risks associated with economic or other factors which may adversely affect the livestock and poultry businesses, including the outbreak of disease in livestock and poultry.  An outbreak of disease could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products used as ingredients in livestock and poultry feed.  A decrease in demand for ingredients in livestock and poultry feed could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results.




The Company is subject to numerous laws, regulations, and mandates globally which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.




The Company does business globally, connecting crops and markets in over 140 countries.  The Company is required to comply with the numerous and broad-reaching laws and regulations administered by United States federal, state and local, and foreign governmental authorities.  The Company must comply with other general business regulations such as accounting and income taxes, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, global trade, environmental, and handling of regulated substances.  Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies including fines, injunctions, and recalls of its products, and damage to its reputation.

 



  



  







  



 





Item 1A.


RISK FACTORS (Continued)







The production of the Company’s products requires the use of materials which can create emissions of certain regulated substances, including greenhouse gas emissions.  Although the Company has programs in place throughout the organization globally to guard against non-compliance, failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties as well as a negative impact on the Company’s reputation, business, cash flows, and results of operations.




In addition, changes to regulations or implementation of additional regulations, for example the imposition of regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gases, may require the Company to modify existing processing facilities and/or processes which could significantly increase operating costs and adversely affect operating results.




The Company is exposed to potential business disruption, including but not limited to disruption of transportation services, supply of non-commodity raw materials used in its processing operations, and other impacts resulting from acts of terrorism or war, natural disasters, severe weather conditions, and accidents which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.




The Company’s operations rely on dependable and efficient transportation services.  A disruption in transportation services could result in difficulties supplying materials to the Company’s facilities and impair the Company’s ability to deliver products to its customers in a timely manner.  The Company relies on access to navigable rivers and waterways in order to fulfill its transportation obligations more effectively.  If access to these navigable waters is interrupted, the Company’s operating results could be adversely affected.  In addition, if certain non-agricultural commodity raw materials, such as water or certain chemicals used in the Company’s processing operations, are not available, the Company’s business could be disrupted.  Certain key regions of the U.S. experienced drought conditions in 2012.  If the drought continues in 2013, the lack of available water for use in processing operations and the impact of low water levels in navigable waters could have a material adverse impact on operating results.  Certain factors which may impact the availability of non-agricultural commodity raw materials are out of the Company’s control including, but not limited to, disruptions resulting from weather, economic conditions, manufacturing delays or disruptions at suppliers, shortage of materials, and unavailable or poor supplier credit conditions.




 The assets and operations of the Company could be subject to extensive property damage and business disruption from various events which include, but are not limited to, acts of terrorism or war, natural disasters and severe weather conditions, accidents, explosions, and fires. The potential effects of these conditions could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results.




The Company’s business is capital intensive in nature and the Company relies on cash generated from its operations and external financing to fund its growth and ongoing capital needs.  Limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.




The Company requires significant capital, including access to credit markets from time to time, to operate its current business and fund its growth strategy.  The Company’s working capital requirements are directly affected by the price of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly.  The Company also requires substantial capital to maintain and upgrade its extensive network of storage facilities, processing plants, refineries, mills, ports, transportation assets and other facilities to keep pace with competitive developments, technological advances, regulations and changing safety standards in the industry.  Moreover, the expansion of the Company’s business and pursuit of acquisitions or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital.  Access to credit markets and pricing of the Company’s capital is dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies.  If the Company is unable to maintain sufficiently high credit ratings, access to debt markets and costs of borrowings could be adversely impacted.  If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or raise adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, it may restrict the Company’s current operations and its growth opportunities which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.







  



  







  



 





Item 1A.


RISK FACTORS (Continued)



 




The Company’s risk management strategies may not be effective.

 

The Company’s business is affected by fluctuations in agricultural commodity prices, transportation costs, energy prices, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates.  The Company has processes in place to monitor exposures to these risks and engages in strategies to manage these risks.  However, the Company’s monitoring efforts may not be successful at detecting a significant risk exposure.  If these controls and strategies are not successful in mitigating the Company’s exposure to these fluctuations, it could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.

 

The Company has limited control over and may not realize the expected benefits of its equity investments and joint ventures.

 

The Company has $3.2 billion invested in or advanced to joint ventures and investments over which the Company has limited control as to the governance and management activities of these investments.  Net sales to unconsolidated affiliates during the six months ended December 31, 2012 was $4.0 billion.  The Company faces certain risks, including risks related to the financial strength of the investment partner; loss of revenues and cash flows to the investment partner and related gross profit; the inability to implement beneficial management strategies, including risk management and compliance monitoring, with respect to the investment’s activities; and the risk that the Company may not be able to resolve disputes with the investment partner.  The Company may encounter unanticipated operating issues or financial results related to these investments that may impact the Company’s revenues and operating results.

 

The Company’s information technology systems, processes, and sites may suffer interruptions or failures which may affect the Company’s ability to conduct its business.

 

The Company’s information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, provide critical data connectivity, information and services for internal and external users.  These interactions include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting raw materials to finished products, inventory management, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, human resources benefits and payroll management, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, and other processes necessary to manage the business.  The Company has put in place security measures to protect itself against cyber-based attacks and disaster recovery plans for its critical systems.  However, if the Company’s information technology systems are breached, damaged, or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, such as catastrophic events, power outages, security breaches, or cyber-based attacks, and the Company’s disaster recovery plans do not effectively mitigate on a timely basis, the Company may suffer interruptions in the ability to manage its operations and damage to its reputation, which may adversely impact the Company’s revenues, operating results, and financial condition.



 




Item 1B