Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Item 2, “Properties,” includes information relating to the Company’s foreign and domestic operations.  Geographic financial information is set forth in “Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data”.


Available Information


The Company’s Internet address is http://www.adm.com.  The Company makes available, free of charge, through its Internet site, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; Directors and Officers
Forms 3, 4, and 5; and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).


In addition, the Company makes available, through its Internet site, the Company’s Business Code of Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the written charters of the Audit, Compensation/Succession, Nominating/Corporate Governance, and Executive Committees.


References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, or should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website.  Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.


The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site
which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC.  The SEC’s Internet address is http://www.sec.gov.




  



 
 




Item 1A.

RISK FACTORS


The availability and price of the agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products the Company produces and merchandises can be affected by weather, disease, government programs, competition, and various other factors beyond the Company’s control and could adversely affect the Company’s
operating results.


The availability and price of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops.  These factors
have historically caused volatility in the agricultural commodities industry and, consequently, in the Company’s operating results.  Reduced supply of agricultural commodities due to weather-related factors or other reasons could adversely affect the Company’s profitability by increasing the cost of raw materials used in the Company’s agricultural processing operations.  Reduced supplies of agricultural commodities could also limit the Company’s ability to procure,
transport, store, process, and merchandise agricultural commodities in an efficient manner which could adversely affect the Company’s profitability.  In addition, the availability and price of agricultural commodities can be affected by other factors, such as plant disease, which can result in crop failures and reduced harvests.


Also, with respect to prices, to the extent production capacity is added within the agricultural processing industry, the disruption to the balance of supply and demand may result in increased raw material costs and/or downward pressure on the relevant product selling prices, thereby adversely affecting revenues and operating results.


Fluctuations in energy prices could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.


The Company’s operating costs and the selling prices of certain finished products are sensitive to changes in energy prices.  The Company’s processing plants are powered principally by electricity, natural gas, and coal.  The Company’s transportation operations are dependent upon diesel fuel and other
petroleum products.  Significant increases in the cost of these items could adversely affect the Company’s production costs and operating results.


The Company has certain finished products, such as ethanol and biodiesel, which are closely related to, or may be substituted for, petroleum products.  Therefore, the selling prices of ethanol and biodiesel can be impacted by the selling prices of gasoline and diesel fuel.  A significant decrease in the price of gasoline
or diesel fuel could result in a significant decrease in the selling price of the Company’s ethanol and biodiesel and could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results.


The Company is subject to economic downturns, political instability and other risks of doing business globally which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.
 

The Company conducts its business and has substantial assets located in many countries and geographic areas. The Company’s operations are principally in the United States and developed countries in Western Europe and South America, but the Company also operates in, or plans to expand or develop its business in, emerging market areas
such as Asia, Eastern Europe, and Africa. Both developed and emerging market areas are subject to impacts of economic downturns, including decreased demand for the Company’s products.  In addition, emerging market areas could be subject to more volatile economic, political and market conditions.  Economic downturns and volatile conditions may have a negative impact on the Company’s operating results and ability to execute its business strategies.


  



 






Item 1A.

RISK FACTORS (Continued)


The Company’s operating results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations.  These conditions include but are not limited to changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions,
trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, currency exchange fluctuations, burdensome taxes and tariffs, enforceability of legal agreements and judgments, and other trade barriers.  International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism,
political hostilities, and war, could limit the Company’s ability to transact business in these markets and could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results. 


Government policies and regulations, in general, and specifically affecting the agricultural sector and related industries, could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.


Agricultural production and trade flows are subject to government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence the planting of certain crops,
the location and size of crop production, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded, the volume and types of imports and exports, the availability and competitiveness of feedstocks as raw materials, and industry profitability.  In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Future government policies may adversely affect the supply of, demand for, and prices of the Company’s
products, restrict the Company’s ability to do business in its existing and target markets, and could negatively impact revenues and operating results. 


The Company is subject to industry-specific risks which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. 


The Company is subject to risks which include, but are not limited to, product quality or contamination, shifting consumer preferences, federal, state, and local food processing regulations, and customer product liability claims.  The liability which could result from these risks may not always be covered by, or could exceed
liability insurance related to product liability and food safety matters maintained by the Company.  The occurrence of any of the matters described above could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results.


Certain of the Company’s merchandised commodities and finished products are used as ingredients in livestock and poultry feed.  The Company is subject to risks associated with the outbreak of disease in livestock and poultry, including, but not limited to, mad-cow disease and avian influenza.  The outbreak of disease
could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products used as ingredients in livestock and poultry feed.  A decrease in demand for these products could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results.


The Company is subject to numerous laws and regulations globally which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.


The Company is required to comply with the numerous and broad reaching laws and regulations administered by United States federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to, but not limited to, the sourcing, transporting, storing, and processing of agricultural raw materials as well as the transporting, storing and distributing
of related agricultural products, including commercial activities conducted by Company employees and third parties globally.  Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, and civil remedies including fines, injunctions, and recalls of its products.


The production of the Company’s products requires the use of materials which can create emissions of certain regulated substances.  Although the Company has programs in place throughout the organization globally to guard against non-compliance, failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including
civil and administrative penalties as well as a negative impact on the Company’s reputation.


 



 






Item 1A.

RISK FACTORS (Continued)


In addition, changes to regulations may require the Company to modify existing processing facilities and/or processes which could significantly increase operating costs and negatively impact operating results.


The Company is exposed to potential business disruption, including but not limited to transportation services, and other serious adverse impacts resulting from acts of terrorism or war, natural disasters and severe weather conditions, and accidents which could adversely affect the Company’s operating
results.


The assets and operations of the Company are subject to damage and disruption from various events which include, but are not limited to, acts of terrorism or war, natural disasters and severe weather conditions, accidents, explosions, and fires.


The potential effects of the conditions cited above include, but are not limited to, extensive property damage, extended business interruption, personal injuries, and damage to the environment.  The Company’s operations also rely on dependable and efficient transportation services.  A disruption in transportation
services could result in problems supplying materials to the Company’s facilities and impair the Company’s ability to deliver products to its customers in a timely manner.


The Company’s business is capital intensive in nature and the Company relies on cash generated from its operations and external financing to fund its growth and ongoing capital needs.  Limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.


The Company requires significant capital to operate its current business and fund its growth strategy.  The Company’s working capital requirements are directly affected by the price of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly.  The Company also requires substantial capital to maintain
and upgrade its extensive network of storage facilities, processing plants, refineries, mills, ports, transportation assets and other facilities to keep pace with competitive developments, technological advances, regulations and changing safety standards in the industry.  Moreover, the expansion of the Company’s business and pursuit of acquisitions or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital.  If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows or raise
adequate external financing, it may restrict the Company’s current operations and its growth opportunities which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.


The Company’s risk management strategies may not be effective.


The Company’s business is affected by fluctuations in agricultural commodity prices, transportation costs, energy prices, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates.  The Company engages in hedging strategies to manage these risks.  However, these hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating
the Company’s exposure to these fluctuations.  See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”
 




Item 1B