Item 1A. Risk Factors 

 

     Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different than we currently anticipate. Risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our businesses and are important to understanding our business. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. You should refer to the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the first paragraph under Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, reference in this section to “we,” “ours,” “us” or similar terms means ADP, together with its subsidiaries. The level of importance of each of the following risks may vary from time to time, and any of these risks may have a material effect on our business. 

 

Changes in laws and regulations may decrease our revenues and earnings

 

     Portions of ADP’s business are subject to governmental regulations. Changes in laws or governmental regulations may decrease our revenues and earnings and may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business. For example, a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to government authorities would adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted to the applicable taxing authorities or client employees. Changes in taxation requirements in the United States or in other countries could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our net income. Changes in laws that govern the co-employment arrangement between a professional employer organization and its worksite employees may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our PEO business.

 

Security and privacy breaches may hurt our business

 

     We store electronically personal information about our clients and employees of our clients. In addition, our retirement services systems maintain investor account information for retirement plans. We have security systems and procedures in place that are designed to protect against any unauthorized access to such information. However, there is still a risk that the security systems and procedures that we maintain may not be successful in protecting against all security breaches. Any significant violations of data privacy could result in the loss of business, litigation and regulatory investigations and penalties that could damage our reputation, and the growth of our business could be adversely affected. 

 

8

 



 



Our systems may be subject to disruptions that could adversely affect our business and reputation 

 

     Many of our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. We rely heavily on our payroll, financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation. We have disaster recovery plans in place to protect our businesses against natural disasters, security breaches, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures or similar events. Despite our preparations, our disaster recovery plans may not be successful in preventing the loss of client data, service interruptions, disruptions to our operations, or damage to our important facilities. 

 

If we fail to adapt our technology to meet client needs and preferences, the demand for our services may diminish 

 

     Our businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological advances and changing client needs and preferences. In order to remain competitive and responsive to client demands, we continually upgrade, enhance and expand our existing solutions and services. If we fail to respond successfully to technology challenges, the demand for our services may diminish. 

 

Political and economic factors may adversely affect our business and financial results 

 

     Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility. When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and interest rates may decrease with a corresponding impact on our businesses. Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services or renegotiating their contracts with us. In addition, the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings, may limit our access to short-term debt markets to meet liquidity needs required by our Employer Services business. 

 

     We invest our client funds in liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, money market securities and other cash equivalents. Nevertheless, our client fund assets are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated, individually or in unison, during periods of unusual financial market volatility. 

 

     We are dependent upon various large banks to execute Automated Clearing House and wire transfers as part of our client payroll and tax services. While we have contingency plans in place for bank failures, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede our ability to process funds on behalf of our payroll and tax services clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. 

 

     We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income from affiliates operating in non-U.S. dollar currency environments and, as a result, we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 

 

Change in our credit ratings could adversely impact our operations and lower our profitability 

 

     The major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have consistently given us their highest long-term debt and commercial paper ratings. Failure to maintain high credit ratings on long-term and short-term debt could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain intra-day borrowing required by our Employer Services business, and ultimately reduce our client interest revenue. 

 

9

 



 



We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel 

 

     Our ability to grow and provide our clients with competitive services is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the skills to serve our clients. Competition for skilled employees in the outsourcing and other markets in which we operate is intense and if we are unable to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated personnel, results from our operations may suffer. 

 

Item 1B