. Risk FactorsOur businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different than we currently anticipate.  Risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our businesses and are important to understanding our business.  The following information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements.  You should refer to the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the first paragraph under Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The level of importance of each of the following risks may vary from time to time, and any of these risks may have a material effect on our business.Failure to comply with, or changes in, laws and regulations applicable to our businesses could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequencesOur business is subject to a wide range of complex laws and regulations. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, and the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, that could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. In addition, changes in laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of laws or regulations by a regulatory authority, may decrease our revenues and earnings and may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business.  For example, a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to government authorities would adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted to the applicable taxing authorities.  Changes in taxation regulations could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our net income.  Changes in laws that govern the co-employment arrangement between a professional employer organization and its worksite employees may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our PEO business.  Healthcare reform under the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended, related state laws, and the regulations adopted or to be adopted thereunder, have the potential to impact substantially the way that employers provide health insurance to employees and the health insurance market for the small and mid-sized businesses that constitute our PEO business’s clients and prospects.  We are unable to determine the ultimate impact that healthcare reform will have on our PEO business and our ability to attract and retain PEO clients.  Amendments to money transmitter statutes have required us to obtain licenses in some jurisdictions. The adoption of new money transmitter statutes in other jurisdictions, changes in regulators’ interpretation of existing state and federal money transmitter or money services business statutes or regulations, or disagreement by a regulatory authority with our interpretation of such existing statutes or regulations, could require additional registration or licensing, limit certain of our business activities until they are appropriately licensed, and expose us to financial penalties. These occurrences could also require changes to our compliance programs and to the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our money movement business or client funds investment strategy, which could adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted.Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, economic and trade sanctions, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and similar laws could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequencesRegulators worldwide are exercising heightened scrutiny with respect to anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Such heightened scrutiny could result in more aggressive enforcement of such laws and more burdensome regulations, which could adversely impact our business.  We operate our business around the world, including in numerous developing economies where companies and government officials are more likely to engage in business practices that are prohibited by domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and the U.K. Bribery Act. Such laws generally prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign government officials and leaders of political parties, and in some cases, to other persons, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We are also subject to economic and trade sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which prohibit or restrict transactions or dealings with specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially designated, including narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations, 10among others.  In addition, some of our businesses in the U.S. and a number of countries in which we operate are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including, for example, the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “BSA”). Among other things, the BSA requires certain financial institutions, including banks and money services businesses (such as money transmitters and providers of prepaid access), to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and maintain transaction records. We have registered our payroll card business with the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”) as a provider of prepaid access pursuant to a FinCEN regulation.  We have implemented policies to monitor and address compliance with applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions and anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and we are in the process of upgrading and enhancing certain of our policies and procedures; however, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants or agents will not take actions in violation of our policies, for which we may be ultimately responsible, or that our policies will be determined to be adequate by regulators.  Any violations of applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions or anti-money laundering laws could limit certain of our business activities until they are satisfactorily remediated and could result in civil and criminal penalties, including fines, that could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. Further, bank regulators are imposing additional and stricter requirements on banks to ensure they are meeting their BSA obligations, and banks are increasingly viewing money services businesses, as a class, to be higher risk customers for money laundering. As a result, our banking partners may limit the scope of services they provide to us or may impose additional requirements on us. These regulatory restrictions on banks and changes to banks’ internal risk-based policies and procedures may result in a decrease in the number of banks that may do business with us, may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business, may decrease our revenues and earnings and could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition.Our businesses host, collect, use, transmit and store personal and business information, and a security or privacy breach may damage or disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause lossesIn connection with our business, we host, collect, use, transmit and store large amounts of personal and business information about our clients, employees of our clients, vendors and our employees, including payroll information, healthcare information, personal and business financial data, social security numbers, bank account numbers, tax information and other sensitive personal and business information.We are focused on ensuring that our operating environments safeguard and protect personal and business information, and we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update our systems and processes. Nonetheless, globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication, and the Company is regularly targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious tactics, code and viruses.  Although this is a global problem, it may affect our businesses more than other businesses because malevolent third-parties may focus on the amount and type of personal and business information that our businesses host, collect, use, transmit and store.We have programs in place to prevent, detect and respond to data security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of data or our systems. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third-parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other methods of deceiving our employees, contractors, and temporary staff.  As these threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities.  In addition, while our operating environment is designed to safeguard and protect personal and business information, we do not have the ability to monitor the implementation of similar safeguards by our clients, vendors or their respective employees, and, in any event, third-parties may be able to circumvent those security measures.Any cyber-attack, unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service, corruption of data, or theft of non-public or other sensitive information, similar act by a malevolent party, or inadvertent acts by our own employees, could result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, and could have a materially adverse effect on our business operations, or that of our clients, create financial liability, regulatory sanction, or a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients or cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider.  Although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the threats that we 11have encountered to date have materially impacted us, the impact of a data security incident could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  While ADP maintains insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber-risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber-risk.We are also subject to various federal, state and international laws, rules and regulations relating to the collection, use, transmission and security of personal and business information. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the Company and its subsidiaries. In addition, the possession and use of personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to laws that may require notification to regulators, clients or employees in the event of a privacy breach. These laws continue to develop, the number of jurisdictions adopting such laws continues to increase, and these laws may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our businesses and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. In addition, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase.Our systems may be subject to disruptions that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and reputationMany of our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions.  We rely heavily on our payroll, financial, accounting, and other data processing systems.  If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention, or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition.  We have disaster recovery, business continuity, and crisis management plans and procedures designed to protect our businesses against a multitude of events including natural disasters, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures, or similar events.  Despite our preparations, our plans may not be successful in preventing the loss of client data, service interruptions, disruptions to our operations, or damage to our important facilities.If we fail to adapt our technology to meet client needs and preferences, the demand for our services may diminishOur businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological advances and changing client needs and preferences.  In order to remain competitive and responsive to client demands, we continually upgrade, enhance, and expand our existing solutions and services.  If we fail to respond successfully to technology challenges, the demand for our services may diminish.Political and economic factors may adversely affect our business and financial resultsTrade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility.  When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and interest rates may decrease with a corresponding impact on our businesses.  Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services or renegotiating their contracts with us.  In addition, a reduction in availability of financing during such conditions, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings, may limit our access to short-term debt markets to meet liquidity needs required by our Employer Services business.We invest our client funds in liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, money market securities, and other cash equivalents.  Nevertheless, our client fund assets are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks.  These risks may be exacerbated, individually or in unison, during periods of unusual financial market volatility.We are dependent upon various large banks to execute Automated Clearing House and wire transfers as part of our client payroll and tax services.  While we have contingency plans in place for bank failures, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede our ability to process funds on behalf of our payroll and tax services clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity.We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income outside of the United States and, as a result, we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.12Change in our credit ratings could adversely impact our operations and lower our profitabilityThe major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have given us very strong long-term debt and the highest commercial paper ratings.  Failure to maintain high credit ratings on long-term and short-term debt could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain intra-day borrowing required by our Employer Services business, and ultimately reduce our client interest revenue.If the distribution of CDK common stock to ADP’s stockholders does not qualify as a tax-free spinoff, we could incur substantial liabilities and may not be fully indemnified for such liabilitiesPrior to completing the spinoff of CDK, ADP received an opinion from Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, its counsel, to the effect that, based on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings set forth in the opinion, the distribution qualified as a transaction that is tax-free under Section 355 and other related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.  ADP also received a private letter ruling from the IRS with respect to certain discrete and significant issues arising in connection with the transactions effected in connection with the separation and distribution. The opinion and the ruling were based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by ADP and CDK. If any of those factual representations or assumptions was untrue or incomplete in any material respect, any undertaking is not complied with, or the facts upon which the opinion and the ruling were based were materially different from the facts at the time of the distribution, the distribution may not qualify for tax-free treatment. Although a private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS, the IRS did not rule that the distribution satisfies every requirement for a tax-free distribution. Opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or the courts. As a result, the conclusions expressed in an opinion of counsel could be challenged by the IRS, and if the IRS prevails in such challenge, the tax consequences to stockholders could be materially less favorable.If the distribution were determined not to qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code, each United States holder generally would be treated as receiving a distribution taxable as a dividend in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of our common stock received by the holder.  In addition, ADP generally would recognize gain with respect to the distribution and certain related transactions, and CDK could be required to indemnify ADP for any resulting taxes and related expenses, which could be material. The distribution and certain related transactions could be taxable to ADP if CDK or its stockholders were to engage in certain transactions after the distribution. In such cases, ADP or its stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, and CDK could be required to indemnify ADP for any resulting taxes and related expenses, which could be material. CDK may be unable to indemnify us fully for any such taxes and related expenses.We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnelOur ability to grow and provide our clients with competitive services is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the skills to serve our clients.  Competition for skilled employees in the outsourcing and other markets in which we operate is intense and, if we are unable to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated personnel, results of our operations may suffer.Item 1B