. Risk FactorsOur businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different than we currently anticipate. Risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our businesses and are important to understanding our business. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. You should refer to the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the first paragraph under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The level of importance of each of the following risks may vary from time to time, and any of these risks may have a material effect on our business.Changes in laws and regulations may decrease our revenues and earnings Our business is subject to a wide range of complex laws and regulations.  Changes in laws or governmental regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations by a regulatory authority, may decrease our revenues and earnings and may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business.  For example, a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to government authorities would adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted to the applicable taxing authorities or client employees. Changes in taxation requirements in the United States or in other countries could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our net income.  Changes in laws that govern the co-employment arrangement between a professional employer organization and its worksite employees may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our PEO business. Health care reform under the Affordable Care Act, as amended, related state laws, and the regulations adopted or to be adopted thereunder, have the potential to impact substantially the way that employers provide health insurance to employees and the health insurance market for the small and midsized businesses that comprise ADP TotalSource's clients and prospects. We are unable to determine the ultimate impact that health care reform will have on our PEO business and our ability to attract and retain PEO clients. Amendments to money transmitter statutes have required us to receive licenses in some jurisdictions, and the adoption of new money transmitter statutes in other jurisdictions, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing statutes, in the future could require additional registration or licensing, as well as possible changes to the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our money movement business or our client funds investment strategy. Our businesses host, collect, use and store personal information about our clients and employees of our clients, and a security or privacy breach may damage or disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause lossesA number of our businesses host, collect, use and store large amounts of personal information about our clients and employees of our clients, including payroll information, healthcare information, personal and business financial data, social security numbers, bank account numbers, tax information and other sensitive personal and business information.    In addition, we collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business.  We are focused on ensuring our operating environments safeguard and protect personal and business information, and although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the threats that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, the impact of a breach could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We are also subject to various laws, rules and regulations relating to the collection, use and security of personal and business information.   The future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our businesses.  In addition, the possession and use of personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to laws that may require notification to clients or employees of a privacy breach. Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication.  Although this is a global problem, it may affect our businesses more than other businesses because malevolent third parties may focus on the amount and type of personal and business information that our businesses host, collect, use and store.  Any cyber attack, unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service, corruption of data, or theft of non-public or other sensitive information, or similar act by a malevolent party could create financial liability, regulatory sanction, or a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients or cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider.  As these threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities.  In addition, while our operating environment is designed to safeguard and protect personal and business information, we do not have the ability to 11monitor the implementation of similar safeguards by our clients, vendors or their respective employees, and, in any event, third parties may be able to circumvent those security measures.  Our systems may be subject to disruptions that could adversely affect our business and reputationMany of our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. We rely heavily on our payroll, financial, accounting, and other data processing systems. If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention, or damage to our reputation. We have disaster recovery, business continuity, and crisis management plans and procedures designed to protect our businesses against a multitude of events including natural disasters, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures, or similar events. Despite our preparations, our plans may not be successful in preventing the loss of client data, service interruptions, disruptions to our operations, or damage to our important facilities.If we fail to adapt our technology to meet client needs and preferences, the demand for our services may diminishOur businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological advances and changing client needs and preferences. In order to remain competitive and responsive to client demands, we continually upgrade, enhance, and expand our existing solutions and services. If we fail to respond successfully to technology challenges, the demand for our services may diminish.Political and economic factors may adversely affect our business and financial resultsTrade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility. When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and interest rates may decrease with a corresponding impact on our businesses. Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services or renegotiating their contracts with us. In addition, a reduction in availability of financing during such conditions, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings, may limit our access to short-term debt markets to meet liquidity needs required by our Employer Services business.We invest our client funds in liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, money market securities, and other cash equivalents. Nevertheless, our client fund assets are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated, individually or in unison, during periods of unusual financial market volatility.We are dependent upon various large banks to execute Automated Clearing House and wire transfers as part of our client payroll and tax services. While we have contingency plans in place for bank failures, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede our ability to process funds on behalf of our payroll and tax services clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity.We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income outside of the United States and, as a result, we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.Change in our credit ratings could adversely impact our operations and lower our profitabilityThe major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have given us very strong long-term debt and the highest commercial paper ratings. Failure to maintain high credit ratings on long-term and short-term debt could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain intra-day borrowing required by our Employer Services business, and ultimately reduce our client interest revenue.Our proposed spin-off of our Dealer Services business is subject to inherent risks The proposed spin-off of our Dealer Services business is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties including, among others: risks that the spin-off will not be consummated; increased demands on our management team to accomplish the spin-off; and significant transaction costs and risks from changes in the results of operations of our reportable segments.We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnelOur ability to grow and provide our clients with competitive services is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the skills to serve our clients. Competition for skilled employees in the outsourcing and other markets in which we operate is intense and, if we are unable to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated personnel, results of our operations may suffer.Item 1B