Item 1A.
    
    Risk Factors
    
    9
  
    Item
      1B.
    
    Unresolved
      Staff Comments
    
    11
  
    Item 2.
    
    Properties
    
    11
  
    Item
      3.
    
    Legal
      Proceedings
    
    11
  
    Part II
    
    
    
    
  
    Item
      5.
    
    Market for
      the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
      Purchases of Equity Securities
    
    12
  
    Item 6.
    
    Selected Financial Data
    
    15
  
    Item
      7.
    
    Management’s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations
    
    17
  
    Item 7A.
    
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk
    
    41
  
    Item
      8.
    
    Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data
    
    41
  
    Item 9.
    
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
      Financial Disclosure
    
    80
  
    Item
      9A.
    
    Controls and
      Procedures
    
    80
  
    Item 9B.
    
    Other Information
    
    82
  
    Part III
    
    
    
    
  
    Item 10.
    
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
    
    83
  
    Item
      11.
    
    Executive
      Compensation
    
    85
  
    Item 12.
    
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
      Related Stockholder Matters
    
    85
  
    Item 13.
    
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence
    
    85
  
    Item
      14.
    
    Principal
      Accounting Fees and Services
    
    85
  
    Part IV
    
    
    
    
  
    Item
      15.
    
    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
    
    86
  
    Signatures
    
    
    
    92
2 



Part I 
Item 1. Business 
General
     Incorporated in
Delaware in 1961, Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (together with its
subsidiaries, “ADP” or the “Company”) is one of the world’s largest providers of
business outsourcing solutions. Leveraging over 60 years of experience,
ADP® offers a wide range of human resource (HR), payroll, tax and
benefits administration solutions from a single source. ADP is also a leading
provider of integrated computing solutions to auto, truck, motorcycle, marine,
recreational vehicle, and heavy equipment retailers and manufacturers throughout
the world. ADP’s mission is to power organizations with insightful solutions
that drive business success.
    
The Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and the
Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are made available, free
of charge, on its website at www.adp.com as soon as reasonably
practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are also available at the SEC’s
internet site at www.sec.gov. 
Segments of Business
    
The Company’s reportable segments are: Employer Services, Professional
Employer Organization (PEO) Services, and Dealer Services. For financial
information by segment and by geographic area, see Note 17 to the “Consolidated
Financial Statements” contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A brief
description of each reportable segment’s operations is provided
below.
Employer Services
    
Employer Services offers a comprehensive range of HR information, payroll
processing, time and labor management, and tax and benefits administration
solutions and services, including traditional and Web-based outsourcing
solutions, that assist employers in the United States, Canada, Europe, South
America (primarily Brazil), Australia and Asia to recruit, staff, manage, pay
and retain their employees. As of June 30, 2012, Employer Services assisted
approximately 564,000 employers with approximately 652,000 payrolls. Employer
Services markets these solutions and services through its direct marketing
salesforce and, on a limited basis, through indirect sales channels, such as
marketing relationships with banks and accountants, among others. In fiscal
2012, 78% of Employer Services’ revenues were from the United States, 14% were
from Europe, 5% were from Canada, and 3% were from South America (primarily
Brazil), Australia, and Asia.
United States
    
Employer Services’ approach to the market is to match clients’ needs to
the solutions and services that will best meet their expectations. To facilitate
this approach, in the United States, Employer Services is comprised of the
following market-facing groups: Small Business Services (SBS) (serving primarily
organizations with fewer than 50 employees); Major Account Services (serving
primarily organizations with between 50 and 999 employees); and National Account
Services (serving primarily organizations with 1,000 or more
employees).
3 



     ADP provides
payroll services that include the preparation of client employee paychecks,
electronic direct deposits, and stored value payroll cards, along with employee
pay statements, supporting journals, summaries, and management reports. ADP also
supplies the quarterly and annual social security, Medicare, and federal, state
and local income tax withholding reports required to be filed by employers. ADP
enables its largest clients to interface their major enterprise resource
planning (ERP) applications with ADP’s outsourced payroll services. For those
companies that choose to process payroll in-house, ADP delivers stand-alone
services such as payroll tax filing, check printing and distribution, year-end
tax statements (i.e., Form W-2), and wage garnishment services. Other stand-alone
services delivered by ADP include Retirement Services, Talent Solutions, Benefit
Services, and Time and Labor Management Services. In addition, our ADP Mobile
Solutions application gives our clients’ employees access to their vital HR,
payroll, time, and benefits information via multiple smartphone
platforms.
    
In order to address the growing business process outsourcing (BPO) market
for clients seeking human resource information systems and benefit outsourcing
solutions, ADP offers its integrated comprehensive outsourcing services (COS)
solution that allows larger clients to outsource to ADP their HR, payroll,
payroll administration, employee service center, benefits administration, and
time and labor management functions. In fiscal 2012, ADP broadened its BPO
offerings with the addition of recruitment process outsourcing services for
large clients. For mid-sized clients, ADP Workforce Now®
Comprehensive Services provides integrated tools and technology to support
payroll, a full-featured benefits administration solution, HR services and
administration needs from recruitment to retirement. ADP also offers ADP
Resource®, an integrated, flexible HR and payroll service offering
for smaller clients that provides a menu of optional services, such as 401(k),
FSA, and a comprehensive Pay-by-Pay® workers’ compensation payment
program.
    
ADP’s Added Value Services division includes the following businesses:
Compliance and Payment Solutions (CAPS) (formerly known as Tax and Financial
Services), Insurance Services, and Tax Credit Services. These businesses
primarily support SBS, Major Account Services and/or National Account Services,
and their services are sold through those businesses, as well as by dedicated
sales teams and via marketing arrangements with alliance partners. 
CAPS offers a host of full outsourcing services,
  including payroll tax, garnishment processing, payment processing, unemployment compensation management, and sales and
  use tax filing. CAPS also offers wage
  verification services through a resale arrangement with a third party.
  In addition, CAPS offers software-as-a-service
  solutions including sales, use, and value-added tax calculation processing and automated accounts payable processing. As
  part of CAPS’ payroll tax services, CAPS
  collects and processes federal, state, and local payroll taxes on behalf of,
  and from, ADP clients and remits these taxes to
  the appropriate taxing authorities. This business provides an electronic interface between ADP clients and over 7,000
  federal, state, and local tax agencies in the
  United States, from the Internal Revenue Service to local governments. In
  fiscal 2012, CAPS in the United States
  processed and delivered approximately 48 million employee year-end tax statements and over 40 million employer payroll
  tax returns and deposits, and moved $1.3
  trillion in client funds to taxing authorities and its clients’ employees via
  electronic transfer, direct deposit, and
  ADPCheckTM. CAPS is also responsible for the efficient
  movement of information and funds from clients
  to third parties through service offerings such as new hire reporting, payroll check (ADPCheck), full service direct
  deposit (FSDD), and stored value payroll card
  (ALINE Card by ADPSM). 
  Insurance Services provides a comprehensive
  Pay-by-Pay workers’ compensation payment program and, through Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc.,
  offers workers compensation and group health insurance to small and mid-sized
  clients through a variety of insurance carriers.
4 



Tax Credit Services provides job tax credit
  services that assist employers in the identification of, and filing for, federal, state, and local tax credits and
  other incentives based on geography, demographics, and other criteria and includes negotiation of incentive
  packages with applicable governmental
  agencies. 
     Employer Services
also provides the following solutions and services: 
Retirement Services provides recordkeeping and/or
  related administrative services to primarily small and mid-sized clients with respect to various types of retirement
  (primarily 401(k) and SIMPLE IRA) plans,
  deferred compensation plans, and “premium only” cafeteria
  plans. 
  Talent Solutions includes Screening and Selection
  Services, Applicant Management Services, I-9 Services, and Talent Management solutions. Screening and Selection
  Services provides background checks, reference
  verifications and an HR help desk. Applicant Management Services provides employers with a Web-based solution to
  manage their talent throughout the hiring
  process. I-9 Services provides electronic processing, storing and tracking of
  employment eligibility verification forms
  (i.e., Form I-9). Talent Management solutions, which ADP provides both through its own services and through resale
  arrangements with third parties, include Compensation Management, Performance Management, Learning Management,
  and Succession Planning. 
  Benefit Services provides benefits administration
  across all market segments, including management of open enrollment and ongoing enrollment of benefits, and
  leave of absence, COBRA, Dependent Care,
  Commuter, Health Reimbursement Arrangements, Health Savings Accounts, and FSA administration. 
  Time and Labor Management Services provides
  solutions for employers to capture, calculate, and report employee time and attendance.
    
ADP also provides cloud-based medical practice management services
through AdvancedMD®. These services include practice management
software, electronic health records solutions, and comprehensive outsourced
medical billing services.
    
ADP made several acquisitions in fiscal 2012, including RightThing, LLC,
a provider of recruitment process outsourcing and recruitment training, W. Ray
Wallace & Associates, Inc., a provider of tax credit services, Asparity
Decisions Solutions, Inc., a supplier of employee benefits decision support
tools, SHPS Human Resource Solutions, Inc., a provider of benefits outsourcing
solutions, including eligibility and enrollment, health spending accounts, COBRA
administration, absence management, benefits advocacy and print and fulfillment,
and PhyLogic Healthcare, a provider of comprehensive outsourced medical billing
services. 
International
    
Employer Services has a growing presence outside of the United States,
where it offers solutions on the basis of both geographic and specific client
business needs. ADP’s GlobalView® offering is available in 41
countries. GlobalView is built on the SAP® ERP Human Capital
Management and the SAP NetWeaver® platform and offers multinational
and global companies an end-to-end outsourcing solution enabling standardized
payroll processing and human resource administration. As of the end of fiscal
2012, 121 clients had contracted for GlobalView services, with approximately 1.1
million employees being processed. Upon completing the implementation for all
these clients, ADP expects to be providing GlobalView services to over 2 million
employees.
5 



     ADP also offers
in-country “best of breed” payroll and human resource outsourcing solutions to
both small and large clients in over a dozen foreign countries. In each of
Canada and Europe, ADP is the leading provider of payroll processing (including
full departmental outsourcing) and human resource administration services.
Within Europe, Employer Services has business operations supporting its
in-country solutions in eight countries: France, Germany, Italy, the
Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. It also offers
services in Ireland (from the United Kingdom) and in Portugal (from Spain). In
South America (primarily Brazil), Australia, and Asia (primarily China), ADP
provides traditional service bureau payroll services, and also offers full
departmental outsourcing of payroll services. ADP also offers wage and tax
collection and remittance services in Canada, the United Kingdom, the
Netherlands, and France.
    
Through its ADP Streamline® offering, which is available in 73
countries (40 of which are countries in which ADP also offers its GlobalView
services), ADP also offers a single point of contact for global payroll
processing and human resource administration services for multinational
companies with small and mid-sized operations. At the end of fiscal 2012, ADP
Streamline was used by 495 multinational companies with approximately
211,000 employees being processed.
    
In fiscal 2012, ADP continued to expand its “best of breed” offering
through the acquisition of Ma Foi Consulting Solutions Limited, a provider of
managed payroll services and social benefits administration services in
India.
Professional Employer Organization
(PEO) Services
    
In the United States, ADP TotalSource®, the Company’s PEO
business, provides approximately 6,500
clients with comprehensive employment
administration outsourcing solutions through a co-employment relationship
pursuant to which the employees who work at a client’s location (“worksite
employees”) are co-employed by us and the client. These comprehensive solutions
include payroll, payroll tax filing, HR guidance, 401(k) plan administration,
benefits administration, compliance services, health and workers’ compensation
coverage, and other supplemental benefits for employees. ADP TotalSource is the
largest PEO in the United States based on the number of worksite employees. ADP
TotalSource has 49 offices located in 23 states and serves approximately 268,000
worksite employees in all 50 states. 
Dealer Services
    
Dealer Services provides integrated dealer management systems (such a
system is also known in the industry as a “DMS”), digital marketing solutions
(including website, sales leads, email, search, display, and social media
marketing services), and other business management solutions to auto, truck,
motorcycle, marine, recreational vehicle (RV), and heavy equipment retailers and
manufacturers in North America, Europe, South Africa, the Middle East, and the
Asia Pacific region. Over 26,000 auto, truck, motorcycle, marine, RV, and heavy
equipment retailers and manufacturers in nearly 100 countries use ADP’s DMS
products, digital marketing solutions, other software applications, networking
solutions, data integration, and/or consulting services.
    
Clients use ADP’s DMS solutions to manage core business activities such
as accounting, inventory management, factory communications, appointment
scheduling, vehicle financing and insurance, sales, and service. In addition to
its DMS solutions, Dealer Services offers its clients a full suite of additional
integrated applications to address each department and functional area of the
dealership, including customer relationship management (CRM) applications,
front-end sales and marketing/advertising solutions, and an IP Telephony phone
system fully-integrated into the DMS to help dealerships drive sales processes
and business development initiatives. Dealer Services also provides its
dealership clients computer hardware, hardware maintenance services, software
support, system design, and network consulting services.
6 



    
Dealer Services also designs, establishes, and maintains communications
networks for its dealership clients that allow interactive communications among
multiple site locations as well as links between franchised dealers and their
vehicle manufacturer franchisors. These networks are used for activities such as
new vehicle ordering and status inquiry, warranty submission and validation,
parts and vehicle location, dealership customer credit application submission
and decision-making, vehicle repair estimation, and acquisition of vehicle
registration and lien holder information.
    
Dealer Services also provides digital marketing solutions via The Cobalt
Group (Cobalt), which ADP acquired in 2010. Cobalt’s digital marketing solutions
and services include websites, sales leads, email, search, display, and social
media marketing and management services. These solutions are sold both as retail
network marketing platforms in conjunction with the manufacturers of ten leading
automotive brands, as well as directly to auto dealerships and regional dealer
associations. Cobalt® provides marketing solutions and services to
nearly half of the auto dealerships in the United States, as well as to auto
dealers in Canada and Mexico.
    
Dealer Services offers comprehensive training and business process
consulting services for many of its business solutions. ADP’s DMS and other
software solutions are available as “on-site” applications installed at the
dealership or as application service provider (ASP) managed services solutions
(in which clients outsource their information technology management activities
to Dealer Services).
Markets and Marketing
Methods
    
Employer Services offers services in the United States, Canada, Europe,
South America (primarily Brazil), Australia, and Asia. PEO Services offers services
exclusively in the United States. Dealer Services has offerings in North
America, Europe, South Africa, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region. In
select emerging markets, Dealer Services uses distributors to sell, implement
and support ADP’s solutions.
    
None of ADP’s major business groups has a single homogenous client base
or market. Employer Services and PEO Services have clients from a large variety
of industries and markets. Within this client base are concentrations of clients
in specific industries. Dealer Services primarily serves automobile dealers,
which in turn may be dependent on a relatively small number of auto
manufacturers, but also serves truck, powersports (i.e., motorcycle, marine and
recreational) and heavy equipment dealers, auto repair shops, used car lots,
state departments of motor vehicles, and manufacturers of automobiles and trucks.
Employer Services also offers services to auto dealers. While concentrations of clients
exist, no one client or industry group is material to ADP’s overall revenues.

    
Historically, ADP’s businesses have not been overly sensitive to price
changes, although in the current economic conditions we have observed, among
some clients and groups of clients, an impact on sensitivity to pricing and
demand for ADP’s services. ADP enjoys a leadership position in each of its major
service offerings and does not believe any major service or major business unit
of ADP is subject to unique market risk.
Competition
    
The industries in which ADP operates are highly competitive. ADP knows of
no reliable statistics by which it can determine the number of its competitors,
but it believes that it is one of the largest providers of business outsourcing
solutions in the world. Employer Services and PEO Services compete with other
independent business outsourcing companies, companies providing enterprise
resource planning services, software companies and financial institutions.
Captive in-house functions, whereby a company installs and operates its own
business processing systems, are another competitive factor in the industries in
which Employer Services and PEO Services operate. Dealer Services’ competitors
include full service DMS providers such as The Reynolds & Reynolds Company
(Dealer Services’ largest DMS competitor in the United States and Canada),
DealerTrack, Inc., and companies providing applications and services that
compete with Dealer Services’ non-DMS applications and services, such as Auto
Trader Group, Inc. and Dealer.com, Inc.
7 



    
Competition in ADP’s industries is primarily based on service
responsiveness, product quality, and price. ADP believes that it is very
competitive in each of these areas and that there are no material negative
factors impacting ADP’s competitive position.
Clients and Client Contracts

    
ADP provides its services to approximately 600,000 clients. In fiscal
2012, no single client or group of affiliated clients accounted for revenues in
excess of 2% of annual consolidated revenues.
    
Our business is typically characterized by long-term client relationships
that result in recurring revenue. ADP is continuously in the process of
performing implementation services for new clients. Depending on the service
agreement and/or the size of the client, the installation or conversion period
for new clients could vary from a short period of time for an SBS client (as
little as 24 hours) to a longer period for a National Account Services or Dealer
Services client with multiple deliverables (generally six to twelve months), and
in some cases may exceed two years for a large GlobalView client or other large,
complicated implementation. Although we monitor sales that have not yet been
billed or installed, we do not view this metric as material in light of the
recurring nature of our business. This is not a reported number, but it is used
by management as a planning tool relating to resources needed to install
services, and a means of assessing our performance against the installation
timing expectations of our clients.
    
ADP’s average client retention is estimated at approximately 11 years in
Employer Services, approximately 6 years in PEO Services, and 10 or more years in
Dealer Services, and has not varied significantly from period to
period.
    
ADP’s services are provided under written price quotations or service
agreements having varying terms and conditions. No one price quotation or
service agreement is material to ADP.
Systems Development and
Programming
    
During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011, and 2010, ADP invested
$706 million, $674 million, and $614 million, respectively, from continuing
operations, in systems development and programming, migration to new computing
technologies and the development of new products and maintenance of our existing
technologies, including purchases of new software and software
licenses.
Product Development
    
ADP continually upgrades, enhances, and expands its existing solutions and
services. Generally, no new solution or service has a significant effect on
ADP’s revenues or negatively impacts its existing solutions and services, and
ADP’s solutions and services have significant remaining life cycles.
Licenses
    
ADP is the licensee under a number of agreements for computer programs
and databases. ADP’s business is not dependent upon a single license or group of
licenses. Third-party licenses, patents, trademarks, and franchises are not
material to ADP’s business as a whole.
8 



Number of Employees
     ADP employed
approximately 57,000 persons as of June 30, 2012.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
    
Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which
may cause our future results to be different than we currently anticipate. Risk
factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important
risks facing our businesses and are important to understanding our business. The
following information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and the consolidated financial
statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This
discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. You should refer to
the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking
statements in the first paragraph under Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires,
reference in this section to “we,” “our,” “us” or similar terms means ADP,
together with its subsidiaries. The level of importance of each of the following
risks may vary from time to time, and any of these risks may have a material
effect on our business.
Changes in laws and regulations may
decrease our revenues and earnings 
    
Portions of ADP’s business are subject to governmental regulations.
Changes in laws or governmental regulations may decrease our revenues and
earnings and may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some
aspects of our business. For example, a change in regulations either decreasing
the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to
government authorities would adversely impact interest income from investing
client funds before such funds are remitted to the applicable taxing authorities
or client employees. Changes in taxation requirements in the United States or in
other countries could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our net
income. Changes in laws that govern the co-employment arrangement between a
professional employer organization and its worksite employees may require us to
change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our PEO business.

Cybersecurity and privacy breaches may
hurt our business, damage our reputation, increase our costs, and cause losses

    
Our systems and networks store personal information about our clients and
employees of our clients. In addition, our retirement services systems maintain
investor account information for retirement plans. We have security systems and
information technology infrastructure in place designed to protect against
unauthorized access to such information. However, there is still a risk that the
security systems and infrastructure that we maintain may not be successful in
protecting against all security breaches and cyber attacks. Third parties,
including vendors that provide services for our operations, could also be a
source of security risk to us in the event of a failure of their own security
systems and infrastructure. Any significant violations of data privacy could
result in the loss of business, litigation, regulatory investigations, and
penalties that could damage our reputation and adversely affect the growth of our business.
Our systems may be subject to
disruptions that could adversely affect our business and
reputation
    
Many of our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on
a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. We rely heavily on
our payroll, financial, accounting, and other data processing systems. If any of
these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief
period of time, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses,
liability to clients, regulatory intervention, or damage to our reputation. We
have disaster recovery, business continuity, and crisis management plans and
procedures designed to protect our businesses against a multitude of events
including natural disasters, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures,
or similar events. Despite our preparations, our plans may not be successful in
preventing the loss of client data, service interruptions, disruptions to our
operations, or damage to our important facilities.
9 



If we fail to adapt our technology to
meet client needs and preferences, the demand for our services may
diminish
       Our
businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological
advances and changing client needs and preferences. In order to remain
competitive and responsive to client demands, we continually upgrade, enhance,
and expand our existing solutions and services. If we fail to respond
successfully to technology challenges, the demand for our services may
diminish.
Political and economic factors may
adversely affect our business and financial results
      
Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may
substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction
and volatility. When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and
interest rates may decrease with a corresponding impact on our businesses.
Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on payroll
and other outsourcing services or renegotiating their contracts with us. In
addition, a reduction in availability of financing during such conditions, even
to borrowers with the highest credit ratings, may limit our access to short-term
debt markets to meet liquidity needs required by our Employer Services
business.
       We
invest our client funds in liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, money
market securities, and other cash equivalents. Nevertheless, our client fund
assets are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity
risks. These risks may be exacerbated, individually or in unison, during periods
of unusual financial market volatility.
       We
are dependent upon various large banks to execute Automated Clearing House and
wire transfers as part of our client payroll and tax services. While we have
contingency plans in place for bank failures, a systemic shutdown of the banking
industry would impede our ability to process funds on behalf of our payroll and
tax services clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results
and liquidity.
       We
derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income outside of the
United States and, as a result, we are exposed to market risk from changes in
foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our consolidated results of
operations, financial position or cash flows.
Change in our credit ratings could
adversely impact our operations and lower our profitability
       The
major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have
consistently given us their highest long-term debt and commercial paper ratings.
Failure to maintain high credit ratings on long-term and short-term debt could
increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain intra-day borrowing
required by our Employer Services business, and ultimately reduce our client
interest revenue.
We may be unable to attract and retain
qualified personnel
       Our
ability to grow and provide our clients with competitive services is partially
dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the
skills to serve our clients. Competition for skilled employees in the
outsourcing and other markets in which we operate is intense and, if we are
unable to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated personnel, results of our operations may suffer.
10 



Item 1B