Item 1A of this Form 10-K, elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.




If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from what we projected. Any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity. We have no intention, and disclaim any obligation, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future results or otherwise, except as required by law.




  



1







Index




PART I








Item 1.


Business.








Our Company





We are a leading provider of data-driven and transaction-based marketing and customer loyalty solutions. We offer a comprehensive portfolio of integrated outsourced marketing solutions, including customer loyalty programs, database marketing services, marketing strategy consulting, analytics and creative services, permission-based email marketing and private label and co-brand retail credit card programs. We focus on facilitating and managing interactions between our clients and their customers through a variety of consumer marketing channels, including in-store, on-line, catalog, mail and telephone. We capture and analyze data created during each customer interaction, leveraging the insight derived from that data to enable clients to identify and acquire new customers and to enhance customer loyalty. We believe that our services are bec
oming increasingly valuable as businesses shift marketing resources away from traditional mass marketing toward more targeted marketing programs that provide measurable returns on marketing investments.




Our client base of more than 900 companies consists primarily of large consumer-based businesses, including well-known brands such as Bank of Montreal, AstraZeneca, Hilton, Bank of America, Victoria’s Secret, Canada Safeway, Shell Canada, Charming Shoppes, Pottery Barn, J. Crew and Ann Taylor. Our client base is diversified across a broad range of end-markets, including, among others, financial services, specialty retail, grocery and drugstore chains, petroleum retail, technology, hospitality and travel, media and pharmaceuticals. We believe our comprehensive suite of marketing solutions offers us a significant competitive advantage, as many of our competitors offer a more limited range of services. We believe the breadth and quality of our service offerings have enabled us to establish and maintain long-standing client relationshi
ps.




In the first quarter of 2010, we reorganized our segments with Private Label Services and Private Label Credit reflected as one segment. All prior year segment information has been restated to conform to the current presentation. In addition, we renamed our other two segments from Epsilon Marketing Services and Loyalty Services to “Epsilon®” and “LoyaltyOne®”, respectively.




We continue to execute our growth strategy by securing new clients and renewing and expanding relationships with existing clients. Key activities for 2010 included:




LoyaltyOne. In 2010, we completed significant renewals with several of our key sponsors in our AIR MILES® Reward Program, including Canada Safeway, Vision Electronics, the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, Pharmasave Atlantic, Whirlpool Canada LP, the Manitoba Liquor Control Commission and the Newfoundland and Labrador Liquor Corporation. In 2010, we also signed a new sponsor agreement with the Ontario Power Authority, representing an expansion of the AIR MILES  Reward Program in the energy sector.




We expanded our global reach by acquiring an approximate 31 percent interest in CBSM – Companhia Brasileira De Servicos De Marketing, operator of Brazil’s dotz loyalty program. Founded in 2000, dotz is a Brazilian-based loyalty program with more than 400,000 active participants, 70 sponsors and a rewards catalog featuring more than 10,000 products and services. The program is in the process of securing long-term agreements with select major sponsors, while preparing for a national rollout in 2011.




Epsilon. In 2010, we signed a multi-year expansion agreement with New York & Company, a specialty retail apparel chain, to provide comprehensive database marketing solutions, and a multi-year expansion agreement with Dell Inc supporting its strategic email marketing program. In 2010, we also entered into a new multi-year agreement with Kraft Foods, Inc. to provide a comprehensive direct-to-consumer marketing solution. We signed new agreements with Dallas-based La Quinta to provide permission-based email marketing services. La Quinta also renewed its existing agreement for Epsilon’s continued support and management of their frequent guest program. Further, we are working with Barclaycard US to provide permission-based email marketing services. In addition, we signed a new 
multi-year agreement with AAA Northern California Nevada Utah to provide marketing services. In 2010, an expansion agreement was completed with leading specialty retailer Chico’s to provide data overlay services. Multi-year renewal agreements were signed with AARP, JPMorgan Chase and Unilever to provide database and marketing services.




In July 2010, we completed the acquisition of the Direct Marketing Services and Database Marketing divisions of Equifax, Inc., collectively referred to as DMS. DMS provides proprietary data-driven, integrated marketing solutions and has been integrated in our Epsilon segment.




Private Label Services and Credit. In 2010, we entered into a new agreement for private label credit card services with David’s Bridal, Inc. and American Laser Centers. We signed a multi-year agreement with MyPoints.com, an online loyalty marketing service, to provide co-brand credit card services. We also renewed our agreements with Restoration Hardware, Inc., Trek Bicycle Corporation and Arhaus Furniture, to continue to provide private label credit card solutions.




Corporate Headquarters. During 2010, our corporate headquarters relocated to 7500 Dallas Parkway, Suite 700, Plano, Texas 75024, where our telephone number is 214-494-3000.




  



2







Index




Our Market Opportunity and Growth Strategy




We intend to enhance our position as a leading provider of targeted, data-driven and transaction-based marketing and loyalty solutions and to continue our growth in revenue and earnings by pursuing the following strategies:








  


•


Capitalize on our Leadership in Targeted and Data-Driven Consumer Marketing. We intend to continue to capitalize on the ongoing shift away from traditional mass marketing campaigns to targeted and data-driven marketing programs with measurable return on investment. As consumer companies initiate or expand their targeted and transaction-based marketing strategies, we believe we are well-positioned to acquire new clients and sell additional services to existing clients based on our extensive experience in capturing and analyzing our clients’ customer transaction data to develop targeted marketing programs. We believe our comprehensive portfolio of high-quality targeted marketing and loyalty solutions provides a competitive advantage over peers with more limited service offerings. 
We seek to extend our leadership position in the transaction-based and targeted marketing services sector by continuing to improve the breadth and quality of our products and services. We also intend to enhance our leadership position in loyalty programs by expanding the scope of the AIR MILES Reward Program and by continuing to develop stand-alone loyalty programs such as the Hilton HHonors® Program and the Citi Thank You® Network. We believe that building on our market leadership will enable us to benefit from the anticipated growth in demand for targeted marketing strategies.</
font>











  


•


Sell More Fully Integrated End-to-End Marketing Solutions. In our Epsilon segment, we have assembled what we believe is the industry’s most comprehensive suite of targeted and data-driven marketing services, including marketing strategy consulting, data services, database development and management, marketing analytics, creative design and delivery services such as email communications. We offer an end-to-end solution to clients, providing a significant opportunity to expand our relationships with existing clients, the majority of which do not currently purchase our full suite of services. In addition, we further intend to integrate our product and service offerings across our segments so that we can provide clients in a broad range of industries with a comprehensive portfolio of targeted marketing solutions, including both coalition and individual loya
lty programs, private label retail credit card programs and other transaction-based marketing solutions. By selling integrated solutions within and across our segments and our entire client base, we have a significant opportunity to maximize the value of our long-standing client relationships.











  


•


Continue to Expand our Global Footprint. We plan to grow our business by leveraging our core competencies in the North American marketplace to further penetrate international markets. Global reach is increasingly important as our clients grow into new markets, and we are well positioned to cost-effectively increase our global presence. We believe international expansion will provide us with strong revenue growth opportunities.











  


•


Optimize our Business Portfolio. We will continue to evaluate our products and services given our strategic direction and demand trends. While we are focused on realizing organic revenue growth and margin expansion, we will consider select acquisitions of complementary businesses that would enhance our product portfolio, market positioning or geographic presence.







  



3







Index




Products and Services




Our products and services are reported under three segments—LoyaltyOne, Epsilon, Private Label Services and Credit. We have traditionally marketed and sold our products and services on a stand-alone basis but increasingly market and sell them on an integrated basis. Our products and services are listed below. Financial information about our segments and geographic areas appears in Note 20, “Segment Information,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.








Segment

  

Products and Services



LoyaltyOne

  

•


AIR MILES Reward Program


  
  

•


Loyalty Services


  
  
  

—Loyalty consulting


  
  
  

—Customer analytics


  
  
  

—Creative services


  
  
  
  


Epsilon

  

•


Marketing Services


  
  
  

—Marketing database services


  
  
  

—Analytical services


  
  
  

—Strategic consulting and creative services


  
  
  

—Proprietary data services


  
  
  

—Digital communications


  
  
  
  


Private Label Services and Credit

  

•


Processing Services


  
  
  

—New account processing


  
  
  

—Bill processing


  
  
  

—Remittance processing


  
  
  

—Customer care


  
  
  
  

  
  

•


Private Label Receivables Financing


  
  
  

—Underwriting and risk management


  
  
  

—Receivables funding


  
  
  
  

  
  

•


Marketing Services







LoyaltyOne




Our LoyaltyOne clients are focused on targeting, acquiring and retaining loyal and profitable customers. We use the information gathered through our loyalty programs to help our clients design and implement effective marketing programs. Our clients within this segment include, among others, financial services providers, supermarkets, petroleum retailers, specialty retailers and pharmaceutical companies.




Our AIR MILES Reward Program is the largest coalition loyalty program in Canada, with over 120 sponsors participating in the program. The AIR MILES Reward Program enables consumers to earn AIR MILES reward miles as they shop within a range of retailers and other sponsors participating in the AIR MILES Reward Program. These AIR MILES reward miles can be redeemed by our collectors for travel or other rewards. We believe that one of the reasons our AIR MILES Reward Program is so popular, as evidenced by the approximately two-thirds participation rate of Canadian households, is that it allows consumers to rapidly accumulate AIR MILES reward miles across a significant portion of their day-to-day spending. The three primary parties involved in our AIR MILES Reward Program are: sponsors, collectors and suppliers, each of which is described belo
w.




Sponsors. More than 120 brand name sponsors participate in our AIR MILES Reward Program, including Canada Safeway, Shell Canada, Jean Coutu, RONA, Amex Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal. The AIR MILES Reward Program is a full service outsourced loyalty program for our sponsors, who pay us a fee per AIR MILES reward mile issued, in return for which we provide all marketing, customer service and rewards and redemption management. We typically grant participating sponsors exclusivity in their market category, enabling them to realize incremental sales and increase market share as a result of their participation in the AIR MILES Reward Program coalition.




Collectors. Collectors earn AIR MILES reward miles at thousands of retail and service locations in addition to the many locations where collectors can use certain cards issued by Bank of Montreal and Amex Bank of Canada to earn AIR MILES reward miles. The AIR MILES Reward Program offers a reward structure that provides a quick, easy and free way for collectors to earn a broad selection of travel, entertainment and other lifestyle rewards through their day-to-day shopping at participating sponsors.




Suppliers. We enter into agreements with airlines, movie theaters and manufacturers of consumer electronics and other providers to supply rewards for the AIR MILES Reward Program, with over 300 suppliers using the AIR MILES Reward Program as an additional distribution channel for their products. Suppliers include such well-recognized companies as Apple, Starbucks and Sony.




  



4







Index




Epsilon




Epsilon is a leader in providing integrated direct marketing solutions that combine database marketing technology and analytics with a broad range of direct marketing services. We offer customer management and loyalty solutions by using data, database technologies, analytics and delivery platforms to maximize the value and loyalty of our clients’ customers and assist our clients in acquiring new customers. Our marketing programs target and reach individual consumers and provide a measurable return on our clients’ marketing investments. We are also an industry leader in providing customer acquisition and retention solutions by using cooperative databases containing consumer transactional data from more than 1,500 multi-channel marketers. We also operate what we believe to be the world’s largest permission-based email mar
keting platform. We offer our clients a full end-to-end solution, including marketing strategy consulting, data services, database development and management, marketing analytics, creative design and delivery services such as email communications, which we believe provides us with a competitive advantage over other marketing services providers with more limited service offerings. Epsilon has over 600 clients, operating primarily in the financial services, specialty retail, hospitality and pharmaceutical end-markets.




Marketing Database Services. We provide design and management of outsourced loyalty programs, integrated marketing databases, customer and prospect data integration and data hygiene, campaign management and marketing application integration and web design and development.




Analytical Services. We provide behavior-based, demographic and attitudinal segmentation, acquisition, attrition, cross-sell and up-sell, retention, loyalty and value predictive modeling, and program evaluation, testing and measurement across our integrated marketing services.




Strategic Consulting and Creative Services. We provide consulting services that analyze our clients’ business, brand and/or product strategy to create customer campaigns and sales channel strategies and tactics designed to further optimize our clients’ customer relationships and marketing return on investment. We also provide direct marketing program design, development and management, campaign design and execution, value proposition and business case development, concept development and creative media consulting, print, imaging and personalization services, data processing services, fulfillment services and mailing services.




Proprietary Data Services. We provide various data services that we believe are essential to making informed marketing decisions. Together with our clients, we use this data to develop highly targeted, individualized marketing programs that build stronger customer relationships and increase response rates in marketing programs.




Digital Communications. We provide strategic, permission-based email communication solutions and marketing technologies. Our end-to-end suite of industry specific products and services includes scalable email campaign technology, delivery optimization, marketing automation tools, turnkey integration solutions, strategic consulting and creative expertise to produce email programs that generate measurable results throughout the customer lifecycle.




Private Label Services and Credit




Our Private Label Services and Credit segment assists some of the best known retailers in extending their brand with a private label and/or co-brand credit card account that can be used by customers at the clients’ store locations, or through on-line or catalog purchases. Our co-brand credit card accounts can also be used by customers outside of our clients’ store locations.




Risk Management Solutions, Account Origination and Funding. Our Private Label Services and Credit segment provides risk management solutions, account origination and funding services for our more than 100 private label and co-brand credit card programs. Through these programs, at December 31, 2010, we managed approximately $5.1 billion in principal receivables, from over 23 million active accounts for the year ended December 31, 2010, with an average balance during that period of approximately $389 for accounts with outstanding balances. We process millions of credit card applications each year using automated proprietary scoring technology and verification procedures to make risk-based origination decisions when approving new credit card accountholders and establishing their credi
t card limits. These procedures help us segment prospects into narrower ranges within each risk score provided by credit bureaus, allowing us to better evaluate individual credit risk and tailor our risk-based pricing accordingly.




We use our Quick Credit and On-Line Prescreen products to originate new private label and co-brand credit card accounts. We believe that these products provide an effective marketing advantage over competing services. Our accountholder base consists primarily of middle- to upper-income individuals, in particular women who use our accounts primarily as brand affinity tools as well as pure financing instruments. These accounts generally have lower average balances compared to balances on general purpose credit cards. We focus our sales efforts on prime borrowers and do not target sub-prime borrowers.




Historically, we have used a securitization program as our primary funding vehicle for our retail credit card receivables. Securitizations involve the packaging and selling of both current and future receivable balances of credit card accounts to a variable interest entity that then sells them to a master trust. As of December 31, 2010, Limited Brands and Charming Shoppes accounted for approximately 16.9% and 10.4%, respectively, of the receivables in our combined trust portfolios.




Transaction Processing, Customer Care and Collection Services. We perform processing services and provide service and maintenance for private label and co-brand credit card programs and assist our clients in acquiring, retaining and managing valuable repeat customers. We use automated technology for bill preparation, printing and mailing, and also offer consumers the ability to view, print and pay their bills on-line. By doing so, we improve the funds availability for both our clients and for those private label and co-brand credit card receivables that we own or securitize. Our customer care operations are influenced by our retail heritage. We focus our training programs in all areas to achieve the highest possible standards and monitor our performance by conducting surveys with o
ur clients and their customers. Our call centers are equipped to handle phone, mail, fax and on-line inquiries. We also provide collection activities on delinquent accounts to support our private label and co-brand credit card programs.




  



5







Index




Marketing Services. We have developed a proprietary credit card system designed specifically for retailers that has the flexibility to be customized to accommodate our clients’ specific needs. We have also built into the system marketing tools to assist our clients in increasing sales. Through our integrated marketing services, we design and implement strategies that increase the loyalty and purchasing behavior of cardholders. Our credit card programs capture transaction data that we analyze to better understand consumer behavior and use to increase the effectiveness of our clients’ marketing activities. We use multi-channel marketing communication tools, including permission-based email, mobile messaging and direct mail to reach our clients’ customers.</di
v>




Safeguards to Our Business: Disaster and Contingency Planning




We operate, either internally or through third-party service providers, multiple data processing centers to process and store our customer transaction data. Given the significant amount of data that we or our third-party service providers manage, much of which is real-time data to support our clients’ commerce initiatives, we have established redundant capabilities for our data centers. We have a number of safeguards in place that are designed to protect us from data-related risks and in the event of a disaster, to restore our data centers’ systems.




Protection of Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights




We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other similar measures to protect our proprietary information and technology used in each segment of our business. We currently have three patent applications pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and one international application. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and generally control access to and distribution of our technology, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite the efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain the use of our products or technology that we consider proprietary and third parties may attempt to develop similar technology 
independently. We pursue registration and protection of our trademarks primarily in the United States and Canada, although we also have either registered trademarks or applications pending for certain marks in Argentina, New Zealand, the European Community, Peru, Mexico, Venezuela, Brazil, United Kingdom, Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Switzerland, Norway, Turkey, Vietnam and Singapore and internationally under the Madrid Protocol in several countries, including several of the aforementioned countries. We are the exclusive Canadian licensee of the AIR MILES family of trademarks pursuant to a perpetual license agreement with Air Miles International Trading B.V., for which we pay a royalty fee. We believe that the AIR MILES family of trademarks and our other trademarks are important for our branding, corporate identification and marketing of our services in each business segment.




Competition




The markets for our products and services are highly competitive. We compete with marketing services companies, credit card issuers, and data processing companies, as well as with the in-house staffs of our current and potential clients.




LoyaltyOne. As a provider of marketing services, our LoyaltyOne segment generally competes with advertising and other promotional and loyalty programs, both traditional and on-line, for a portion of a client’s total marketing budget. In addition, we compete against internally developed products and services created by our existing and potential clients. We expect competition to intensify as more competitors enter our market. Competitors with our AIR MILES Reward Program may target our sponsors and collectors as well as draw rewards from our rewards suppliers. Our ability to generate significant revenue from clients and loyalty partners will depend on our ability to differentiate ourselves through the products and services we provide and the attractiveness o
f our loyalty and rewards programs to consumers. The continued attractiveness of our loyalty and rewards programs will also depend on our ability to remain affiliated with sponsors that are desirable to consumers and to offer rewards that are both attainable and attractive to consumers.




Epsilon. Our Epsilon segment generally competes with a variety of niche providers. These competitors’ focus has primarily been on one or two services within the marketing value chain, rather than the full spectrum of data-driven marketing services used for both traditional and on-line advertising and promotional programs. In addition, Epsilon competes against internally developed products and services created by our existing clients and others. We expect competition to intensify as more competitors enter our market. For our targeted direct marketing services offerings, our ability to continue to capture detailed customer transaction data is critical in providing effective customer relationship management strategies for our clients. Our ability to differenti
ate the mix of products and services that we offer, together with the effective delivery of those products and services, are also important factors in meeting our clients’ objective to continually improve their return on marketing investment.




Private Label Services and Credit. Our Private Label Services and Credit segment competes primarily with financial institutions whose marketing focus has been on developing credit card programs with large revolving balances. These competitors further drive their businesses by cross-selling their other financial products to their cardholders. Our focus has primarily been on targeting specialty retailers that understand the competitive advantage of developing loyal customers. Typically, these retailers seek customers that make more frequent but smaller transactions at their retail locations. As a result, we are able to analyze card-based transaction data we obtain through managing our credit card programs, including customer specific transaction data and overall co
nsumer spending patterns, to develop and implement targeted marketing strategies and to develop successful customer relationship management strategies for our clients. As an issuer of private label retail credit cards, we also compete with other payment methods, primarily general purpose credit cards like Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover Card, as well as cash, checks and debit cards. We also issue co-branded private label retail Visa and MasterCard credit cards.




  



6







Index




Regulation




Federal and state laws and regulations extensively regulate the operations of our credit card bank subsidiary, World Financial Network National Bank, or WFNNB, and our industrial bank subsidiary, World Financial Capital Bank, or WFCB. Many of these laws and regulations are intended to maintain the safety and soundness of WFNNB and WFCB, and they impose significant restraints on those companies to which other non-regulated companies are not subject. Because WFNNB is deemed a credit card bank and WFCB is an industrial bank within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, we are not subject to regulation as a bank holding company. If we were subject to regulation as a bank holding company, we would be constrained in our operations to a limited number of activities that are closely related to banking or financial services in nature. Never
theless, as a national bank, WFNNB is still subject to overlapping supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or OCC, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC; and, as an industrial bank, WFCB is still subject to overlapping supervision by the FDIC and the State of Utah.




WFNNB and WFCB must maintain minimum amounts of regulatory capital, including maintenance of certain capital ratios, paid-in capital minimums, and an adequate allowance for loan loss, as well as meeting specific guidelines that involve measures and ratios of their assets, liabilities, regulatory capital and interest rate, among other factors. If WFNNB or WFCB does not meet these capital requirements, their respective regulators have broad discretion to institute a number of corrective actions that could have a direct material effect on our financial statements. Under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of WFNNB is impaired by losses or otherwise, we, as the sole shareholder, may be assessed the deficiency. To the extent necessary, if a deficiency in capital still exists, the FDIC may be appointed as a receiver to wind up WFNNB
217;s affairs.




Before WFNNB can pay dividends to us, it must obtain prior regulatory approval if all dividends declared in any calendar year would exceed its net profits for that year plus its retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years, less any transfers to surplus. In addition, WFNNB may only pay dividends to the extent that retained net profits, including the portion transferred to surplus, exceed bad debts. Moreover, to pay any dividend, WFNNB must maintain adequate capital above regulatory guidelines. Further, if a regulatory authority believes that WFNNB is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound banking practice, which, depending on its financial condition, could include the payment of dividends, that regulatory authority may require, after notice and hearing, that WFNNB also cease and desist from the unsafe pract
ice. To pay any dividend, WFCB must also maintain adequate capital above regulatory guidelines.




Since 2003, the OCC has required WFNNB to have an operating agreement with the OCC and a capital adequacy and liquidity maintenance agreement, or the 2003 CALMA, with us. That operating agreement required WFNNB to continue to operate in a manner consistent with its then current practices, regulatory guidelines and applicable law, including those related to affiliate transactions, maintenance of capital and corporate governance. In August 2009, we entered into a revised operating agreement, or the 2009 Operating Agreement, with WFNNB and the OCC which required us to enter into both a new capital adequacy and liquidity maintenance agreement, or the 2009 CALMA, and a capital and liquidity support agreement, or the 2009 CALSA, with WFNNB. The 2009 Operating Agreement has not required any changes in WFNNB’s operations. The 2009 CALMA an
d 2009 CALSA memorialize our current obligations to ensure that WFNNB remains in compliance with its minimum capital requirements.




We are limited under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the implementing Federal Reserve Board Regulation W in the extent to which we can borrow or otherwise obtain credit from or engage in other “covered transactions” with WFNNB or WFCB, which may have the effect of limiting the extent to which WFNNB or WFCB can finance or otherwise supply funds to us. “Covered transactions” include loans or extensions of credit, purchases of or investments in securities, purchases of assets, including assets subject to an agreement to repurchase, acceptance of securities as collateral for a loan or extension of credit, or the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit. Although the applicable rules do not serve as an outright bar on engaging in “covered transactions,” they do require th
at we engage in “covered transactions” with WFNNB or WFCB only on terms and under circumstances that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to WFNNB or WFCB, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. Furthermore, with certain exceptions, each loan or extension of credit by WFNNB or WFCB to us or our other affiliates must be secured by collateral with a market value ranging from 100% to 130% of the amount of the loan or extension of credit, depending on the type of collateral.




We are required to monitor and report unusual or suspicious account activity as well as transactions involving amounts in excess of prescribed limits under the Bank Secrecy Act, Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, rules, and other regulations. Congress, the IRS and the bank regulators have focused their attention on banks’ monitoring and reporting of suspicious activities. Additionally, Congress and the bank regulators have proposed, adopted or passed a number of new laws and regulations that may increase reporting obligations of banks. We are also subject to numerous laws and regulations that are intended to protect consumers, including state laws, the Truth in Lending Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009. These laws a
nd regulations mandate various disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which we may interact with consumers. These and other laws also limit finance charges or other fees or charges earned in our activities. We conduct our operations in a manner that we believe excludes us from regulation as a consumer reporting agency under the Fair Credit Reporting Act. If we were deemed a consumer reporting agency, however, we would be subject to a number of additional complex regulatory requirements and restrictions.




  



7







Index




A number of privacy laws and regulations have been enacted in the United States, Canada, the European Union, China and other international markets in which we operate. These laws and regulations place many new restrictions on our ability to collect and disseminate customer information. In addition, the enactment of new or amended legislation around the world could place additional restrictions on our ability to utilize customer information. For example, Canada has likewise enacted privacy legislation known as the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act. Among its principles, this act requires organizations to obtain a consumer’s consent to collect, use or disclose personal information. Under this act, which took effect on January 1, 2001, the nature of the required consent depends on the sensitivity of the pers
onal information, and the act permits personal information to be used only for the purposes for which it was collected. Some provinces have enacted substantially similar privacy legislation. We believe we have taken appropriate steps with our AIR MILES Reward Program to comply with these laws.




In the United States and under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, we are required to maintain a comprehensive written information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards relating to customer information. It also requires us to provide initial and annual privacy notices to customers that describe in general terms our information sharing practices. If we intend to share nonpublic personal information about customers with affiliates and/or nonaffiliated third parties, we must provide our customers with a notice and a reasonable period of time for each customer to “opt out” of any such disclosure. In Canada, the Fighting Internet and Wireless Spam Act restricts our ability to send commercial “electronic messages,” defined to include text, sound, voice and image messages to email, inst
ant messaging, telephone or similar accounts, where the primary purpose is advertising or promoting a commercial product or service to our customers and prospective customers. The act requires that a sender has obtained consent to send a commercial electronic message, and provide the customers with an opportunity to opt out from receiving future commercial electronic email messages from the sender.




In addition to U.S. federal privacy laws with which we must comply, states also have adopted statutes, regulations or other measures governing the collection and distribution of nonpublic personal information about customers. In some cases these state measures are preempted by federal law, but if not, we monitor and seek to comply with individual state privacy laws in the conduct of our business.




We also have systems and processes to comply with the USA PATRIOT ACT of 2001, which is designed to deter and punish terrorist acts in the United States and around the world, to enhance law enforcement investigatory tools, and for other purposes.




Employees




As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 7,600 employees. We believe our relations with our employees are good. We have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees.




Available Information




We file or furnish annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. You may read and copy, for a fee, any document we file or furnish at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public at the SEC’s web site at www.sec.gov. You may also obtain copies of our annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and certain other information filed or furnished with the SEC, as well as amendments thereto, free of charge from our web site, www.AllianceData.com.</fon
t> No information from this web site is incorporated by reference herein. These documents are posted to our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished these documents with the SEC. We post our audit committee, compensation committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, and executive committee charters, our corporate governance guidelines, and our code of ethics, code of ethics for Senior Financial Executives and Chief Executive Officer, and code of ethics for Board Members on our web site. These documents are available free of charge to any stockholder upon request.




  



8







Index








Item 1A.


Risk Factors.







RISK FACTORS




Risk Factors Related to Our Business




Our 10 largest clients represented 49.5% of our consolidated revenue in 2010 and the loss of any of these clients could cause a significant drop in our revenue.




We depend on a limited number of large clients for a significant portion of our consolidated revenue. Our 10 largest clients represented approximately 49.5% of our consolidated revenue during the year ended December 31, 2010, with Bank of Montreal representing approximately 12.4% of our 2010 consolidated revenue. A decrease in revenue from any of our significant clients for any reason, including a decrease in pricing or activity, or a decision either to utilize another service provider or to no longer outsource some or all of the services we provide, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated revenue.




LoyaltyOne. LoyaltyOne represents 28.6% of our consolidated revenue. Our 10 largest clients in this segment represented approximately 81.7% of our LoyaltyOne revenue in 2010. Bank of Montreal and Canada Safeway represented approximately 43.1% and 11.7%, respectively, of this segment’s revenue for 2010. Our contract with Bank of Montreal expires in 2013 and our contract with Canada Safeway expires in 2015, each subject to automatic renewals at five-year intervals.




Epsilon. Epsilon represents 22.0% of our consolidated revenue. Our 10 largest clients in this segment represented approximately 25.3% of our Epsilon revenue in 2010.




Private Label Services and Credit. Private Label Services and Credit represents 49.7% of our consolidated revenue. Our 10 largest clients in this segment represented approximately 74.3% of our Private Label Services and Credit revenue in 2010. Limited Brands and its retail affiliates, Charming Shoppes and its retail affiliates and Redcats and its retail affiliates represented approximately 18.2%, 12.3% and 10.1%, respectively, of our revenue for this segment in 2010. Our contracts with Limited Brands and its retail affiliates expire in 2012, our contracts with Charming Shoppes and its retail affiliates expire in 2019 and our contracts with Redcats and its retail affiliates expire in 2018.




The markets for the services that we offer may contract or fail to expand which could negatively impact our growth and profitability.




Our growth and continued profitability depend on acceptance of the services that we offer. Our clients may not continue to use the loyalty and targeted marketing strategies and programs that we offer. Changes in technology may enable merchants and retail companies to directly process transactions in a cost-efficient manner without the use of our services. Additionally, downturns in the economy or the performance of retailers may result in a decrease in the demand for our marketing strategies. Further, if customers make fewer purchases of our Private Label customers’ products and services, we will have fewer transactions to process, resulting in lower revenue. Any decrease in the demand for our services for the reasons discussed above or any other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our growth, revenue and operating resu
lts.




Competition in our industries is intense and we expect it to intensify.




The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in each of those markets. Many of our current competitors have longer operating histories, stronger brand names and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Certain of our segments also compete against in-house staffs of our current clients and others or internally developed products and services by our current clients and others. For example, as a result of increasing competitors in the loyalty market, including from Aeroplan, Air Canada’s frequent flyer program, we may experience greater competition in attracting and retaining sponsors in our AIR MILES Reward Program. Our ability to generate significant revenue from clients and partners will depend on our ability to differentiate ourselves through
 the products and services we provide and the attractiveness of our programs to consumers. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and potential competitors.




We rely on third party vendors to provide products and services. Our profitability could be adversely impacted if they fail to fulfill their obligations.




The failure of our suppliers to deliver products and services in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner could adversely affect our business. If our significant vendors were unable to renew our existing contracts, we might not be able to replace the related product or service at the same cost which would negatively impact our profitability.




Our level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient cash to repay our outstanding debt, our ability to react to changes in our business and our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund future needs.




We have a high level of indebtedness, which requires a high level of interest and principal payments. Subject to the limits contained in our credit facility, our note purchase agreement, our indenture governing the convertible senior notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our level of indebtedness could intensify. Our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our higher level of indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could:</
font>




  



9







Index








  


•


make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations under any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing our convertible senior notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness;











  


•


require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes;











  


•


increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage;











  


•


limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;











  


•


limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to dispose of assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate purposes;











  


•


reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures;











  


•


cause any refinancing of our indebtedness to be at higher interest rates and require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations; and











  


•


prevent us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of certain changes of control, which would constitute a default under the indenture governing the convertible senior notes.







Interest rate increases could materially adversely affect our earnings.




Interest rate risk affects us directly in our lending and borrowing activities. Our borrowing costs were approximately $318.3 million for 2010. To manage our risk from market interest rates, we actively monitor the interest rates and the interest sensitive components to minimize the impact that changes in interest rates have on the fair value of assets, net income and cash flow. To achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates by matching asset and liability repricings and through the use of fixed-rate debt instruments to the extent that reasonably favorable rates are obtainable with such arrangements. In addition, we enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and treasury locks to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to lock the intere
st rate on a portion of our variable debt. We do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for trading or other speculative purposes.




Conversion of the convertible senior notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders.




The conversion of some or all of the convertible senior notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of any of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the conversion of the convertible senior notes into shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock.




Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that future sales could occur, may adversely affect our common stock price.




As of February 23, 2011, we had an aggregate of 99,994,770 shares of our common stock authorized but unissued and not reserved for specific purposes. In general, we may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders. We have reserved 24,003,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under our employee stock purchase plan and our long-term incentive plans, of which 2,117,900 shares are issuable upon vesting of restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, and upon exercise of options granted as of February 23, 2011, including options to purchase approximately 1,300,664 shares exercisable as of February 23, 2011 or that will become exercisable within 60 days after February 23, 2011. We have reserved for issuance 1,500,000 shares of our commo
n stock, 881,243 of which remain issuable, under our 401(k) and Retirement Savings Plan as of December 31, 2010. In addition, we may pursue acquisitions of competitors and related businesses and may issue shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions. Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock, and any sale or issuance of our common stock will dilute the percentage ownership held by our stockholders.




A limited number of stockholders report ownership of a significant amount of our common stock. These stockholders may have interests that conflict with ours and, if they were to act together, may be able to control the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including a change in control.




Pursuant to the information provided in various filings with the SEC on Schedules 13D or 13G and amendments thereto, there are eleven separate groups of affiliated entities that beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 70% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, may be able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our charter documents and significant corporate actions, including a change in control. These stockholders may have interests that conflict with our interests or those of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may prevent any other holder or group of holders of our common stock from being able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. Accordingly, this concentratio
n of ownership could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. For corporate tax purposes, a corporation is considered to undergo “an ownership change” if, as a result of changes in the stock ownership by “5-percent shareholders” or as a result of certain reorganizations, the percentage of the corporation’s stock owned by those 5-percent shareholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock owned by those shareholders at any time during the prior three-year testing period. If a corporation undergoes an “ownership change,” Internal Revenue Code Section 382 limits the corporation’s right to use its net operating losses, or NOLs, each year thereafter to an annual percentage of the fair market value of the corporation at the time of the ownership change.




  



10







Index




We do not intend to pay cash dividends.




We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements and other factors that our board deems relevant.




If we fail to identify suitable acquisition candidates, or to integrate the businesses we acquire, it could negatively affect our business.




Historically, we have engaged in a significant number of acquisitions, and those acquisitions have contributed to our growth in revenue and profitability. We believe that acquisitions will continue to be a key component of our growth strategy. However, we may not be able to continue to locate and secure acquisition candidates on terms and conditions that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates, our growth could be impaired.




There are numerous risks associated with acquisitions, including:








  


•


the difficulty and expense that we incur in connection with the acquisition;











  


•


adverse accounting consequences of conforming the acquired company’s accounting policies to ours;











  


•


the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns;











  


•


the potential loss of customers or key employees of the acquired company;











  


•


the impact on our financial condition due to the timing of the acquisition or the failure to meet operating expectations of the acquired business; and











  


•


the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired company.







Acquisitions that we make may not be successfully integrated into our ongoing operations and we may not achieve any expected cost savings or other synergies from any acquisition. If the operations of an acquired business do not meet expectations, our profitability and cash flows may be impaired and we may be required to restructure the acquired business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business.




We expect growth in our Private Label Services and Credit segment to result from new and acquired credit card programs whose credit card receivable performance could result in increased portfolio losses and negatively impact our earnings.




We expect an important source of growth in our credit card operations to come from the acquisition of existing credit card programs and initiating credit card programs with retailers who do not currently offer a private label or co-branded retail credit card. Although we believe our pricing and models for determining credit risk are designed to evaluate the credit risk of existing programs and the credit risk we are willing to assume for acquired and start-up programs, we cannot assure you that the loss experience on acquired and start-up programs will be consistent with our more established programs. The failure to successfully underwrite these credit card programs may result in defaults greater than our expectations and could have a materially adverse impact on us and our earnings.




If we are unable to securitize our credit card receivables due to changes in the market, we would not be able to fund new credit card receivables, which would have a negative impact on our operations and earnings.




A number of factors affect our ability to fund our receivables in the securitization market, some of which are beyond our control, including:








  


•


conditions in the securities markets in general and the asset-backed securitization market in particular;











  


•


conformity in the quality of private label credit card receivables to rating agency requirements and changes in that quality or those requirements; and











  


•


ability to fund required overcollateralizations or credit enhancements, which are routinely utilized in order to achieve better credit ratings to lower borrowing cost.







On April 7, 2010, the SEC proposed revised rules for asset-backed securities offerings that, if adopted, would substantially change the disclosure, reporting and offering process for public and private offerings of asset-backed securities, including those offered under our credit card securitization program. The proposed rules, if adopted in their current form, would, among other things, impose as a condition for the shelf registration of asset-backed securities a requirement that the sponsor of the asset-backed securities offering hold a minimum of 5% of the nominal amount of each of the tranches sold or transferred to investors (or, in the case of revolving master trusts, an originator’s interest of a minimum of 5% of the nominal amount of the securitization exposures) and not hedge those holdings. Issuers of publicly offered ass
et-backed securities would be required to disclose more information regarding the underlying assets and to file a computer program that demonstrates the effect of the transaction’s waterfall of distributions. In addition, the proposals would alter the safe-harbor standards for the private placement of asset-backed securities to impose informational requirements similar to those that would apply to registered public offerings of such securities.




  



11







Index




On September 27, 2010, the Board of the FDIC adopted new safe harbors relating to the treatment of securitizations in receivership or conservatorship. The new safe harbor rules include a grandfathering provision that we believe will allow the credit card trusts used in our credit card securitization program to continue to benefit from the protections under the safe harbor to the same extent as prior securitizations issued by those trusts, and therefore we do not expect the adoption of the new rule to adversely affect our ability to securitize our receivables. However, because the new safe harbors were recently adopted, participants in the securitization market, including investors in asset-backed securities and the rating agencies that rate our asset-backed securities, are continuing to evaluate the effect of the new safe harbors.





The inability to securitize card receivables due to changes in the market, regulatory proposals, the unavailability of credit enhancements, or any other circumstance or event would have a material adverse effect on our operations and earnings.

 


Recent legislative and regulatory reforms may have a significant impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition.

 

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted into law. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, includes a sweeping reform of the regulation and supervision of financial institutions, as well as of the regulation of derivatives and capital market activities.

 

The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act is difficult to assess because many provisions require federal agencies to adopt implementing regulations. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act mandates multiple studies, which could result in future legislative or regulatory action. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Government Accountability Office to have the Comptroller General of the United States carry out a study to determine whether it is necessary, in order to strengthen the safety and soundness of institutions or the stability of the financial system of the United States, to eliminate the exceptions to the definition of “bank” under the Bank Holding Company Act for certain institutions including limited purpose credit card banks and industrial loan companies. If the study were to recommend the elimination of these excepti
ons and legislation was enacted to implement this change without any grandfathering or accommodations for existing institutions, we could be required to become a bank holding company and cease certain of our activities that are not permissible for bank holding companies or divest WFNNB or WFCB.

 

The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or BCFP, a new federal consumer protection regulator with authority to make further changes to the federal consumer protection laws and regulations. It is unclear what changes will be promulgated by the BCFP and what effect, if any, such changes would have on our business and operations. The BCFP will assume rulemaking authority under the existing federal consumer financial protection laws, and enforce those laws against and examine certain non-depository institutions and insured depository institutions with total assets greater than $10 billion and their affiliates.

 

While the BCFP will not examine WFNNB and WFCB, it will receive information from their primary federal regulators. In addition, the BCFP’s broad rulemaking authority is expected to impact their operations. For example, the BCFP’s rulemaking authority may allow it to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators including regulations issued under the Truth in Lending Act or the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, or the CARD Act, by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The ability to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. Furthermore, the BCFP has broad authority to prevent “unfair, deceptive or abusive” practices. If the BCFP were to exercise this authority, it could result in requiremen
ts to alter our products that would make our products less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably.

 

The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes certain state officials to enforce regulations issued by the BCFP and to enforce the Dodd-Frank Act’s general prohibition against unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, and may make it more difficult than in the past for the OCC to declare state laws that differ from federal standards to be preempted. To the extent that states enact requirements that differ from federal standards or state officials and courts adopt interpretations of federal consumer laws that differ from those adopted by the federal banking agencies, we may be required to alter products or services offered in some jurisdictions or cease offering products, which will increase compliance costs and reduce our ability to offer the same products and services to consumers nationwide.

 

The effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations could be significant, depending upon final implementing regulations, the actions of our competitors and the behavior of other marketplace participants. In addition, we may be required to invest significant management time and resources to address the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the numerous regulations that are required to be issued under it. The Dodd-Frank Act and any related legislation or regulations may have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

 


Increases in net charge-offs beyond our current estimates could have a negative impact on our operating income and profitability.




The primary risk associated with unsecured consumer lending is the risk of default or bankruptcy of the borrower, resulting in the borrower’s balance being charged-off as uncollectible. We rely principally on the customer’s creditworthiness for repayment of the loan and therefore have no other recourse for collection. We may not be able to successfully identify and evaluate the creditworthiness of cardholders to minimize delinquencies and losses. An increase in defaults or net charge-offs could result in a reduction in operating income. General economic factors, such as the rate of inflation, unemployment levels and interest rates, may result in greater delinquencies that lead to greater credit losses. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions and the success of our collection and recovery efforts, our deli
nquency and net credit card receivable charge-off rates are affected by the credit risk of our credit card receivables and the average age of our various credit card account portfolios. The average age of our credit card receivables affects the stability of delinquency and loss rates of the portfolio. An older credit card portfolio generally drives a more stable performance in the portfolio. For 2010, our average credit card receivables net charge-off rate was 8.9% compared to 9.3% and 7.3% for 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our pricing strategy may not offset the negative impact on profitability caused by increases in delinquencies and losses, thus any material increases in delinquencies and losses beyond our current estimates could have a material adverse impact on us.




  



12







Index




The hedging activity related to the activities of the WFN Trusts and the WFC Trust and our floating rate indebtedness subjects us to counterparty risks relating to the creditworthiness of the commercial banks with whom we enter into hedging transactions.




In order to execute hedging strategies related to the WFN Trusts or the WFC Trust and our floating rate indebtedness, we have entered into interest rate derivative contracts with commercial banks. These banks are otherwise known as counterparties. It is our policy to enter into such contracts with counterparties that are deemed to be creditworthy. However, if macro- or micro-economic events were to negatively impact these banks, the banks might not be able to honor their obligations either to us or to the WFN Trusts or the WFC Trust and we might suffer a direct loss.




If actual redemptions by AIR MILES Reward Program collectors are greater than expected, or if the costs related to redemption of AIR MILES reward miles increase, our profitability could be adversely affected.




A portion of our revenue is based on our estimate of the number of AIR MILES reward miles that will go unused by the collector base. The percentage of unredeemed AIR MILES reward miles is known as “breakage” in the loyalty industry. AIR MILES reward miles currently do not expire. We experience breakage when AIR MILES reward miles are not redeemed by collectors for a number of reasons, including:








  


•


loss of interest in the program or sponsors;











  


•


collectors moving out of the program area; and











  


•


death of a collector.







If actual redemptions are greater than our estimates, our profitability could be adversely affected due to the cost of the excess redemptions. In addition, since we recognize revenue over the estimated life of an AIR MILES reward mile, for those AIR MILES reward miles subject to breakage, any significant change in, or failure by management to reasonably estimate, breakage could adversely affect our profitability.




Our AIR MILES Reward Program also exposes us to risks arising from potentially increasing reward costs. Our profitability could be adversely affected if costs related to redemption of AIR MILES reward miles increase. A 10% increase in the cost of redemptions would have resulted in a decrease in pre-tax income of $40.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010.




The loss of our most active AIR MILES Reward Program collectors could negatively affect our growth and profitability.




Our most active AIR MILES Reward Program collectors drive a disproportionately large percentage of our AIR MILES Reward Program revenue. The loss of a significant portion of these collectors, for any reason, could impact our ability to generate significant revenue from sponsors. The continued attractiveness of our loyalty and rewards programs will depend in large part on our ability to remain affiliated with sponsors that are desirable to consumers and to offer rewards that are both attainable and attractive.




Airline or travel industry disruptions, such as an airline insolvency, could negatively affect the AIR MILES Reward Program, our revenues and profitability.




Air travel is one of the appeals of the AIR MILES Reward Program to collectors. As a result of airline insolvencies and restructurings, we may experience service disruptions that prevent us from fulfilling collectors’ flight redemption requests. If one of our existing airline suppliers sharply reduces its fleet capacity and route network, we may not be able to satisfy our collectors’ demands for airline tickets. Tickets from other airlines, if available, could be more expensive than a comparable ticket under our current supply agreements with existing suppliers, and the routes offered by the other airlines may be inadequate, inconvenient or undesirable to the redeeming collectors. As a result, we may experience higher air travel redemption costs, and collector satisfaction with the AIR MILES Reward Program might be adversely 
affected.




As a result of airline or travel industry disruptions, political instability, terrorist acts or war, some collectors could determine that air travel is too dangerous or burdensome. Consequently, collectors might forego redeeming AIR MILES reward miles for air travel and therefore might not participate in the AIR MILES Reward Program to the extent they previously did, which could adversely affect our revenue from the program.




As a result of our significant Canadian operations, our reported financial information will be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars.




We are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollars through our significant Canadian operations. We do not hedge any of our net investment exposure in our Canadian subsidiary. A 10% increase in the Canadian exchange rate would have resulted in an increase in pre-tax income of $16.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Conversely, a corresponding decrease in the exchange rate would result in a comparable decrease to pre-tax income.




Legislation relating to consumer privacy may affect our ability to collect data that we use in providing our loyalty and marketing services, which, among other things, could negatively affect our ability to satisfy our clients’ needs.




The enactment of new or amended legislation or industry regulations arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues could have a material adverse impact on our marketing services. Legislation or industry regulations regarding consumer privacy issues could place restrictions upon the collection, sharing and use of information that is currently legally available, which could materially increase our cost of collecting some data. These types of legislation or industry regulations could also prohibit us from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our clients’ requirements and our profitability and cash flow. In addition to the United States and Canadian regulations discussed below, we have expanded our marketing services through the acquisition of companies formed and
 operating in foreign jurisdictions that may be subject to additional or more stringent legislation and regulations regarding consumer privacy.




  



13







Index




In the United States, federal and state laws such as the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, make it more difficult to collect, share and use information that has previously been legally available and may increase our costs of collecting some data. Regulations under these acts give cardholders the ability to “opt out” of having information generated by their credit card purchases shared with other affiliated and unaffiliated parties or the public. Our ability to gather, share and utilize this data will be adversely affected if a significant percentage of the consumers whose purchasing behavior we track elect to “opt out,” thereby precluding us and our affiliates from using their data.




In the United States, the federal Do-Not-Call Implementation Act makes it more difficult to telephonically communicate with prospective and existing customers. Similar measures were implemented in Canada beginning September 1, 2008. Regulations in both the United States and Canada give consumers the ability to “opt out,” through a national do-not-call registry and state do-not-call registries of having telephone solicitations placed to them by companies that do not have an existing business relationship with the consumer. In addition, regulations require companies to maintain an internal do-not-call list for those who do not want the companies to solicit them through telemarketing. These regulations could limit our ability to provide services and information to our clients. Failure to comply with these regulations could have 
a negative impact on our reputation and subject us to significant penalties.




In the United States, the federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 restricts our ability to send commercial electronic mail messages, the primary purpose of which is advertising or promoting a commercial product or service, to our customers and prospective customers. The act requires that a commercial electronic mail message provide the customers with an opportunity to opt-out from receiving future commercial electronic mail messages from the sender. Failure to comply with the terms of this act could have a negative impact on our reputation and subject us to significant penalties.




In Canada, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act requires an organization to obtain a consumer’s consent to collect, use or disclose personal information. Under this act, consumer personal information may be used only for the purposes for which it was collected. We allow our customers to voluntarily “opt out” from receiving either one or both promotional and marketing mail or promotional and marketing electronic mail. Heightened consumer awareness of, and concern about, privacy may result in customers “opting out” at higher rates than they have historically. This would mean that a reduced number of customers would receive bonus and promotional offers and therefore those customers may collect fewer AIR MILES reward miles.




In Canada, the Fighting Internet and Wireless Spam Act restricts our ability to send commercial “electronic messages,” defined to include text, sound, voice and image messages to email, instant messaging, telephone or similar accounts, where the primary purpose is advertising or promoting a commercial product or service to our customers and prospective customers. The act requires that a sender have consent to send a commercial electronic message, and provide the customers with an opportunity to opt out from receiving future commercial electronic email messages from the sender. Failure to comply with the terms of this act could have a negative impact on our reputation and subject us to significant penalties.




Failure to safeguard our databases and consumer privacy could affect our reputation among our clients and their customers, and may expose us to legal claims.




As part of our AIR MILES Reward Program, targeted marketing services programs and credit card programs, we maintain marketing databases containing information on consumers’ account transactions. Although we have extensive security procedures, our databases may be subject to unauthorized access. If we experience a security breach, the integrity of our databases could be affected. Security and privacy concerns may cause consumers to resist providing the personal data necessary to support our profiling capability. The use of our loyalty, marketing services or credit card programs could decline if any compromise of security occurred. In addition, any unauthorized release of customer information or any public perception that we released consumer information without authorization, could subject us to legal claims from consumers or regula
tory enforcement actions and adversely affect our client relationships.




Loss of data center capacity, interruption of telecommunication links, computer viruses or inability to utilize proprietary software of third party vendors could affect our ability to timely meet the needs of our clients and their customers.




Our ability, and that of our third-party service providers, to protect our data centers against damage or inoperability from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, computer viruses and other disasters is critical. In order to provide many of our services, we must be able to store, retrieve, process and manage large amounts of data and periodically expand and upgrade our database capabilities. Any damage to our data centers, or those of our third-party service providers, any failure of our telecommunication links that interrupts our operations or any impairment of our ability to use our software or the proprietary software of third party vendors, including impairments due to virus attacks, could adversely affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs and their confidence in utilizing us for future services.




  



14







Index




Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly.




Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. The actions we take to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We may not be able to prevent infringement of our intellectual property rights or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Any infringement or misappropriation could harm any competitive advantage we currently derive or may derive from our proprietary rights. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against us. Any claims and any resulting litigation could subj
ect us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third party’s patent or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our time and resources. Any claims from third parties may also result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims.




Current and proposed regulation and legislation relating to our retail credit card services could limit our business activities, product offerings and fees charged.




Various federal and state laws and regulations significantly limit the retail credit card services activities in which we are permitted to engage. Such laws and regulations, among other things, limit the fees and other charges that we can impose on consumers, limit or proscribe certain other terms of our products and services, require specified disclosures to consumers, or require that we maintain certain licenses, qualifications and minimum capital levels. In some cases, the precise application of these statutes and regulations is not clear. In addition, numerous legislative and regulatory proposals are advanced each year which, if adopted, could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability or further restrict the manner in which we conduct our activities. The CARD Act was enacted in May 2009. The CARD Act, together with its im
plementing rules, which become effective in 2010, act to limit or modify certain credit card practices and require increased disclosures to consumers. The credit card practices addressed by the rules include, but are not limited to, restrictions on the application of rate increases to existing and new balances, payment allocation, default pricing, imposition of late fees and two-cycle billing. The Federal Reserve Board has proposed additional clarifications regarding certain provisions of the CARD Act and additional rules are expected to be issued by the Federal Reserve Board in 2011. The failure to comply with, or adverse changes in, the laws or regulations to which our business is subject, or adverse changes in their interpretation, could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to collect our receivables and generate fees on the receivables, thereby adversely affecting our profitability.




Our bank subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal regulation that may require us to make capital contributions to them, and that may restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to make cash available to us.




Federal and state laws and regulations extensively regulate the operations of WFNNB, as well as WFCB. Many of these laws and regulations are intended to maintain the safety and soundness of WFNNB and WFCB, and they impose significant restraints on them to which other non-regulated entities are not subject. As a national bank, WFNNB is subject to overlapping supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the OCC and the FDIC. As an industrial bank, WFCB is subject to overlapping supervision by the FDIC and the State of Utah. WFNNB and WFCB must maintain minimum amounts of regulatory capital. If WFNNB and WFCB do not meet these capital requirements, their respective regulators have broad discretion to institute a number of corrective actions that could have a direct material effect on our financial statements. WFCB, a
s an institution insured by the FDIC, must maintain certain capital ratios, paid-in capital minimums and adequate allowances for loan loss. WFNNB must meet specific guidelines that involve measures and ratios of its assets, liabilities, regulatory capital, interest rate exposure and certain off-balance sheet items under regulatory accounting standards, among other factors. Since 2003, the OCC has required WFNNB to have an operating agreement with the OCC and the 2003 CALMA with us. That operating agreement required WFNNB to continue to operate in a manner consistent with its then current practices, regulatory guidelines and applicable law, including those related to affiliate transactions, maintenance of capital and corporate governance. On August 14, 2009, we entered into the 2009 Operating Agreement with WFNNB and the OCC, which required us to enter into both the 2009 CALMA and the 2009 CALSA with WFNNB. The 2009 Operating Agreement has not required any changes in WFNNB’s operations. The 2009 CALMA a
nd 2009 CALSA memorialize our current obligations to ensure that WFNNB remains in compliance with its minimum capital requirements. If either WFNNB or WFCB were to fail to meet any of the capital requirements to which it is subject, we may be required to provide them with additional capital, which could impair our ability to service our indebtedness.




Before WFNNB can pay dividends to us, it must obtain prior regulatory approval if all dividends declared in any calendar year would exceed its net profits for that year plus its retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years, less any transfers to surplus. In addition, WFNNB may pay dividends only to the extent that retained net profits, including the portion transferred to surplus, exceed bad debts. Moreover, to pay any dividend, WFNNB must maintain adequate capital above regulatory guidelines. Further, if a regulatory authority believes that WFNNB is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound banking practice, which, depending on its financial condition, could include the payment of dividends, that regulatory authority may require, after notice and hearing, that WFNNB cease and desist from the unsafe practice. 
To pay any dividend, WFCB must also maintain adequate capital above regulatory guidelines. Accordingly, neither WFNNB nor WFCB may be able to make any of its cash or other assets available to us, including servicing our indebtedness.




  



15







Index




If our bank subsidiaries fail to meet certain criteria, we may become subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act, which could force us to cease all of our non-banking activities and thus cause a drastic reduction in our profits and revenue.




If either of our depository institution subsidiaries failed to meet the criteria for the exemption from the definition of “bank” in the Bank Holding Company Act under which it operates (which exemptions are described below), and if we did not divest such depository institution upon such an occurrence, we would become subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act. This would require us to cease certain of our activities that are not permissible for companies that are subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act. One of our depository institution subsidiaries, WFNNB, is a limited-purpose national credit card bank located in Delaware. WFNNB will not be a “bank” as defined under the Bank Holding Company Act so long as it remains in compliance with the following requirements:








  


•


it engages only in credit card operations;











  


•


it does not accept demand deposits or deposits that the depositor may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties;











  


•


it does not accept any savings or time deposits of less than $100,000, except for deposits pledged as collateral for its extensions of credit;











  


•


it maintains only one office that accepts deposits; and











  


•


it does not engage in the business of making commercial loans.







Our other depository institution subsidiary, WFCB, is a Utah industrial bank that is authorized to do business by the State of Utah and the FDIC. WFCB will not be a “bank” as defined under the Bank Holding Company Act so long as it remains an industrial bank in compliance with the following requirements:








  


•


it is an institution organized under the laws of a state which, on March 5, 1987, had in effect or had under consideration in such state’s legislature a statute which required or would require such institution to obtain insurance under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; and











  


•


it does not accept demand deposits that the depositor may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties.







If our industrial bank fails to meet the requirements of the FDIC or State of Utah, we may be subject to termination of our industrial bank.




Our industrial bank, WFCB, is authorized to do business by the State of Utah and the FDIC. WFCB is subject to capital ratios and paid-in capital minimums and must maintain adequate allowances for loan loss. If WFCB fails to meet the requirements of the FDIC or the State of Utah, it may be subject to termination as an industrial bank.




Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, Delaware law and the fundamental change purchase rights of our convertible senior notes may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent or delay change of control transactions or attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.




Delaware law, as well as provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and debt instruments, could discourage unsolicited proposals to acquire us, even though such proposals may be beneficial to our stockholders.




These include:








  


•


a board of directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors of each class having staggered, three-year terms;











  


•


our board’s authority to issue shares of preferred stock without further stockholder approval;











  


•


provisions of Delaware law providing that directors serving on staggered boards of directors, such as ours, may be removed only for cause; and











  


•


fundamental change purchase rights of our convertible senior notes, which allow such note holders to require us to purchase all or a portion of their convertible senior notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as well as provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in connection with make-whole fundamental changes.







In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or delay or prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our common stock that they might otherwise 
receive.




  



16







Index








Item 1B