Item 1A of this
    Form 10-K
    and elsewhere in this
    Form 10-K
    and the documents incorporated by reference in this
    Form 10-K.


 


    If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties
    materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be
    incorrect, actual results may vary materially from what we
    projected. Any forward-looking statements contained in this
    annual report or in the documents incorporated herein by
    reference reflect our current views with respect to future
    events and are subject to these and other risks, uncertainties
    and assumptions relating to our operations, results of
    operations, growth strategy and liquidity. We have no intention,
    and disclaim any obligation, to update or revise any
    forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
    information, future results or otherwise.


 



    PART I



 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    Our
    Company


 


    We are a leading provider of loyalty and marketing solutions
    derived from transaction rich data. We partner with our clients
    to develop unique insight into consumer behavior. We use that
    insight to create and manage customized solutions that we
    believe enhance consumer experiences and enable our clients to
    build stronger, mutually-beneficial relationships with their
    customers. We focus on facilitating and managing interactions
    between our clients and their customers through multiple
    distribution channels including in-store, catalog and on-line.
    Our services assist our clients in identifying and acquiring new
    customers, as well as in increasing the loyalty and
    profitability of their existing customers. We have a client base
    in excess of 600 companies, consisting mostly of specialty
    retailers, petroleum retailers, utilities, supermarkets and
    financial services companies. We generally have long-term
    relationships with our clients, with contracts typically ranging
    from three to five years in duration.


 


    We are the result of the 1996 merger of two entities acquired by
    Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe:
    J.C. Penney’s transaction services business, BSI
    Business Services, Inc., and Limited Brands, Inc.’s credit
    card bank operation, World Financial Network National Bank. In
    June 2001, we concluded the initial public offering of our
    common stock, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
    During 2003, we completed two secondary public offerings whereby
    Limited Commerce Corp., which is a wholly owned subsidiary of
    Limited Brands and was our second largest stockholder, sold all
    of our shares of common stock it beneficially owned. During
    2003, Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe began reducing
    its holdings of our common stock through a series of pro rata
    distributions to it partners. In October 2006, Welsh Carson
    completed the distribution of its remaining shares.


 


    We continue to execute on our growth strategy through internal
    growth and acquisitions. In 2006, we expanded our co-branded
    credit card services to New York & Company,
    Goody’s and Cruise Management International LLC. We also
    entered into new arrangements for private label credit card
    services with Bealls and Burke’s Outlet, Friedman’s
    Jewelers, The Dunlap Group and Pamida Stores Operating Co. LLC.
    We added 20 new retailers to our online shopping mall,
    www.airmilesshops.ca, and signed Budget Rent A Car System
    as a new sponsor and reward supplier in the AIR
    MILES®
    Reward Program. We signed new contracts with Citicorp Credit
    Services, Circuit City, and My Family.com to provide integrated
    email and marketing solutions. We also signed contracts with
    Green Mountain Energy Company, WPS Resources Corporation, and
    Southern



    
    3



Table of Contents




    Union Company to provide customer care solutions as well as
    providing bill print and payment solutions to the Sacramento
    Municipal Utilities District.


 


    In addition, we continued our track record of client retention
    by completing long-term renewals with New York &
    Company, United Retail Group, Goody’s,
    Abercrombie & Fitch, The Room Place at Harlem
    Furniture, and American Signature for private label credit
    services. We also completed significant AIR MILES Reward Program
    sponsor renewals in 2006 with Hudson’s Bay Company, The
    Jean Coutu Group, and A&P Canada.


 


    We continued to expand our marketing services offering with the
    acquisition of DoubleClick Email Solutions, a permission-based
    email marketing service provider with operations across North
    America, Europe and Asia/Pacific. The DoubleClick Email
    Solutions acquisition expanded our geographic reach and
    strengthened our retail vertical presence in our interactive
    delivery service offering. We also acquired iCom
    Information & Communications, Inc., or ICOM, and CPC
    Associates, Inc., premier providers of targeted lists, data
    products and services used to increase effectiveness of
    direct-response marketing programs for a variety of business
    sectors. In the first quarter of 2007, we completed the
    acquisition of Abacus, a leading provider of data and
    multi-channel direct marketing services. With the ICOM, CPC and
    Abacus acquisitions, we have significantly increased the breadth
    of our data product and services offerings.


 


    Our corporate headquarters is located at 17655 Waterview
    Parkway, Dallas, Texas 75252, and our telephone number is
    972-348-5100.


 



    Our
    Market Opportunity and Growth Strategy


 


    Our services are applicable to the full spectrum of interactions
    between companies that sell products and services and individual
    consumers. We are well positioned to benefit from trends
    favoring outsourcing of electronic transactions and the
    development and management of companies’ marketing
    programs. Unlike many companies, we believe that we possess the
    economies of scale, core competencies, and transaction
    processing infrastructure to capture, analyze and leverage
    detailed transactional data to support targeted marketing,
    loyalty, and credit card programs.


 


    Our growth strategy is to pursue initiatives that capitalize on
    these market trends, our market position and our core
    competencies. Key elements of our strategy are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Expanding relationships with our base of over 600 clients by
    offering them integrated transaction and marketing
    services.  We offer our clients products and
    services that will help them more effectively understand and
    service their customers’ needs and allow them to build and
    maintain long-term relationships with their customers. By
    providing services directly to our clients’ customers, we
    become an integral part of our clients’ businesses.



 


     
        • 

    
    Expanding our client base in our existing market
    sectors.  We continue to focus on particular
    markets that are experiencing rapid growth, such as: marketing
    services related to the AIR MILES Reward Program in Canada and
    targeted marketing in the United States; transaction and credit
    services for retailers; and billing and customer care services
    for the utility industry.



 


     
        • 

    
    Continuing to establish long-term relationships with our
    clients that result in a stable and recurring revenue
    base.  We seek to maintain a stable and recurring
    revenue base by building and maintaining long-term relationships
    with our clients and entering into contracts that typically
    extend for three to five years. Most of our services require the
    payment of monthly fees based on the number of customer
    interactions we process, allowing us to generate recurring
    revenues.



 


     
        • 

    
    Continuing to pursue focused, strategic acquisitions and
    alliances to enhance our core capabilities, increase our scale
    and expand our range of services.   Since our
    inception, we have grown in part through selective acquisitions.
    We intend to continue to acquire other companies with
    complementary products, services or relationships to enhance and
    expand our service offerings and increase our market share. We
    also intend to continue to enter into strategic relationships
    that extend our client reach, further expand our service
    offerings and generate additional revenue.






    
    4



Table of Contents



 



    Products
    and Services


 


    Our products and services are reported under three
    segments — Marketing Services, Credit Services, and
    Transaction Services. We have traditionally marketed and sold
    our products and services on a stand-alone basis but
    increasingly market and sell them as integrated solutions. Our
    products and services and target markets are listed below.
    Financial information about our segments and geographic areas
    appears in Note 19 of our consolidated financial statements.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



    Segment


 


    Products and Services


 


    Target Markets



 





    Marketing Services
    



 


     • Loyalty Programs
    


 


     • Financial
    Services
    




 


 


         —
    Coalition Loyalty
    


 


     • Supermarkets
    




 


 


         —
    Stand Alone Loyalty
    


 


     • Petroleum Retail
    




 


 


     • Marketing
    Services
    


 


     • Specialty Retail
    




 


 


         —
    Strategic Consulting and Creative Services
    


 


     • Utility
    




 


 


         —
    Data Services
    


 


     • Pharmaceuticals
    




 


 


         —
    Database Services
    


 


     • Travel
    




 


 


         —
    Analytical Services
    


 


     • Telecommunications
    




 


 


         —
    Interactive Delivery Services
    


 


     • Not-for Profit
    




 


 


 


 


     • Insurance
    




 


 


 


 


 





    Credit Services
    



 


     • Private Label
    Receivables Financing
    


 


     • Specialty Retail
    




 


 


         —
    Underwriting and Risk Management
    


 


     • Jewelry
    




 


 


         —
    Merchant Processing
    


 


     • Hardware
    




 


 


         —
    Receivables Funding
    


 


 




 


 


 


 


 





    Transaction Services
    



 


     • Processing
    Services
    


 


     • Specialty Retail
    




 


 


         —
    Card Processing
    


 


     • Jewelry
    




 


 


         —
    Billing and Payment Processing
    


 


     • Hardware
    




 


 


         —
    Customer Care
    


 


 




 


 


     • Utility Services
    


 


     • Utility
    




 


 


         —
    Customer Information System Hosting
    


 


 




 


 


         —
    Customer Care
    


 


 




 


 


         —
    Billing and Payment Processing
    


 


 




 


 


     • Merchant Services
    


 


     • Petroleum Retail
    




 


 


         Point-of-Sale
    Services
    


 


 




 


 


         —
    Merchant Bankcard Services
    


 


 








 



    Marketing
    Services


 


    Our clients are focused on targeting, acquiring and retaining
    loyal and profitable customers. We create and manage targeted
    marketing programs that result in securing more frequent and
    sustained customer behavior. We utilize the information gathered
    through our loyalty and targeted marketing programs to help our
    clients design and implement effective marketing programs. Our
    clients within this segment include financial services
    providers, supermarkets, petroleum retailers, specialty
    retailers and pharmaceutical companies. BMO Bank of
    Montreal, the largest Marketing Services client in 2006,
    represented approximately 22.2% of this segment’s 2006
    revenue.


 


    Loyalty Programs.  We operate what we
    believe to be the largest coalition loyalty program in Canada,
    with over 9 million active collector accounts representing
    approximately two-thirds of all Canadian households. The AIR
    MILES Reward Program enables consumers to earn AIR MILES reward
    miles as they shop across a range of retailers and other
    sponsors participating in the AIR MILES Reward Program. The AIR



    
    5



Table of Contents




    MILES Reward Program has enabled sponsors to use this tool to
    increase their revenues by attracting new customers, retaining
    existing customers and increasing the amount spent by customers.


 


    We deal with three primary parties in connection with our AIR
    MILES Reward Program: sponsors, collectors and suppliers.


 



    Sponsors


 


    A sponsor enters into an agreement with us to secure exclusive
    rights for its particular region and product or service
    category, to reward customers for changing their shopping
    behavior and to increase purchases by collectors. AIR MILES
    reward miles are available to collectors at over 12,000 retail
    and service locations operated by more than 100 brand name
    sponsors in every province across Canada, including BMO Bank of
    Montreal, Canada Safeway, Amex Bank of Canada, Shell Canada,
    A&P Canada and Sobeys.


 



    Collectors


 


    Consumers participating in the AIR MILES Reward Program, known
    as collectors, accumulate AIR MILES reward miles based on their
    purchasing behavior at sponsor locations. The AIR MILES Reward
    Program offers a reward structure that provides a quick, easy
    and free way for collectors to earn a broad selection of travel,
    entertainment and other lifestyle rewards by shopping at
    participating sponsors.


 



    Suppliers


 


    We enter into supply agreements with suppliers of rewards to the
    program such as airlines, movie theaters and manufacturers of
    consumer electronics. We make more than 800 different reward
    opportunities available through over 300 suppliers.


 



    Stand-Alone
    Loyalty


 


    We design, build and manage advanced stand-alone loyalty
    platforms and programs. The systems are capable of delivering
    real-time information that we can then use to develop targeted
    messages that create a personalized experience for the consumer
    across all touchpoints.


 


    Marketing Services.  Our Epsilon
    business is a leader in providing integrated direct marketing
    solutions that combine strategic consulting and creative
    services, data services, database services, analytical services,
    and interactive delivery services. Epsilon leverages its deep
    technology, analytic and direct marketing capabilities to
    develop integrated marketing solutions for clients in a targeted
    group of industries including travel, financial services,
    pharmaceuticals, telecommunications,
    not-for-profit
    and insurance. We have enhanced our service offering through a
    series of acquisitions over the last two years, including
    Epsilon Interactive and DoubleClick Email Solutions, leading
    providers of targeted, permission-based email solutions, and
    ICOM and CPC, now known as Epsilon Data Services. In addition,
    in the first quarter of 2007, we acquired Abacus which increases
    our data service offering and significantly increases our
    presence in the retail and catalog vertical.


 


    Our integrated marketing services include the following:


 



    Strategic
    Consulting and Creative Services


 


    We provide consulting services that analyze our client’s
    business, brand
    and/or
    product strategy to create customer, campaign, and channel
    strategies and tactics designed to further optimize our
    clients’ customer relationships and marketing return on
    investment. We also provide direct marketing program design,
    development and management; campaign design and execution; value
    proposition and business case development; concept development
    and creative media consulting; print, imaging and
    personalization services; data processing services; fulfillment
    services; and mailing services.



    
    6



Table of Contents



 



    Data
    Services


 


    We provide various data services that are essential to making
    smart marketing decisions. Together with our clients, we utilize
    this data to develop highly targeted, individualized marketing
    programs that build stronger customer relationships and increase
    response rates in marketing programs. We have strengthened our
    capabilities in this area with the acquisition of CPC, a leading
    provider of new mover data; ICOM, a leading provider of consumer
    surveys; and Abacus, a leading provider of data, data management
    and analytical services.


 



    Database
    Services


 


    We provide design and management of integrated marketing
    databases; customer and prospect data integration and data
    hygiene; campaign management and marketing application
    integration; loyalty management; web design and development; and
    email marketing.


 



    Analytical
    Services


 


    We provide behavior-based, demographic and attitudinal
    segmentation; acquisition, attrition, cross-sell and upsell,
    retention, loyalty and value predictive modeling; and program
    evaluation, testing and measurement.


 



    Interactive
    Delivery Services


 


    We provide strategic, permission-based email communication
    solutions and marketing technologies. Our
    end-to-end
    suite of industry specific products and services includes
    scalable email campaign technology, delivery optimization,
    marketing automation tools, turnkey integration solutions,
    strategic consulting and creative expertise to produce email
    programs that generate measurable results throughout the
    customer lifecycle.


 



    Credit
    Services


 


    Through our Credit Services segment we finance and operate
    private label and co-branded credit card programs more
    effectively than a typical retailer can operate a stand alone
    program. We are able to use our expertise in loyalty and
    one-to-one
    marketing to help our retail clients develop deeper
    relationships with their customers and our cardholders. In
    addition, we are able to fund receivables through our
    securitization program to achieve lower borrowing costs while
    having the infrastructure to support and leverage a variety of
    portfolio types and a large number of account holders. Through
    our subsidiaries, World Financial Network National Bank and
    World Financial Capital Bank, we underwrite the accounts and
    fund purchases for over 85 private label credit card and
    commercial credit clients, representing over 107 million
    cardholders and over $4.1 billion of managed receivables as
    of December 31, 2006. Our clients are predominately
    specialty retailers, and the largest within this segment include
    Limited Brands and its retail affiliates, representing 33.6% of
    this segment’s 2006 revenue, and Redcats, representing
    11.8% of this segment’s 2006 revenue.


 


    We believe that an effective risk management process is
    important in both account underwriting and servicing. We use a
    risk analysis in establishing initial credit limits with
    cardholders. Because we process a large number of credit
    applications each year, we use automated proprietary scoring
    technology and verification procedures to process these
    applications. Our underwriting process involves the purchase of
    credit bureau information for each credit applicant. We
    continuously validate, monitor and maintain the scorecards, and
    we use the resulting data to ensure optimal risk performance.
    These models help segment prospects into narrower ranges within
    each risk score provided by credit bureau services, allowing us
    to better evaluate individual credit risk and to tailor our
    risk-based pricing accordingly. We generally receive a merchant
    fee for processing sales transactions charged to a private label
    credit card program for which we provide receivables funding.
    Processing includes authorization and settlement of the funds to
    the retailer, net of our merchant fee.


 


    We utilize a securitization program as our primary funding
    vehicle for private label credit card receivables.
    Securitizations involve the packaging and selling of both
    current and future receivable balances of credit card accounts
    to a special purpose entity that then sells them to a master
    trust. Our Transaction Services



    
    7



Table of Contents




    segment retains rights to service the managed accounts. Our
    securitizations are treated as sales for accounting purposes
    and, accordingly, the receivables are removed from our balance
    sheet. We retain an ownership interest in the receivables, which
    is commonly referred to as a seller’s interest, and a
    residual interest in the trust, which is commonly referred to as
    an interest-only strip. The fair value of the interest-only
    strip is based on assumptions regarding future payments and
    credit losses and is subject to volatility that could materially
    affect our operating results. Both the amount and timing of
    estimated cash flows are dependent on the performance of the
    underlying credit card receivables, and actual cash flows may
    vary significantly from expectations. If principal payments from
    cardholders or defaults by cardholders exceed our estimates, we
    may be required to decrease the carrying value of the
    interest-only strips through a charge against earnings. Limited
    Brands and its retail affiliates and Redcats accounted for
    approximately 26.3% and 10.0%, respectively, of the receivables
    in the trust portfolio as of December 31, 2006.


 



    Transaction
    Services


 


    We facilitate and manage transactions between our clients and
    their customers through our scalable processing systems. Our
    largest clients within this segment include Limited Brands and
    its retail affiliates, representing approximately 15.5% of this
    segment’s 2006 revenue.


 


    Processing Services.  We assist clients in
    extending their brand with a private label or co-branded credit
    card that can be used by customers at the clients’ store
    locations, catalogs or on-line. We provide service and
    maintenance to our clients’ private label credit and
    co-branded card programs and assist our clients in acquiring,
    retaining and managing valuable repeat customers. Our
    Transaction Services segment performs processing services for
    our Credit Services segment in connection with that
    segment’s private label credit card programs. These
    inter-segment
    services accounted for 46.1% of Transaction Services revenue in
    2006.


 


    We have developed a proprietary private label credit card system
    designed specifically for retailers which has the flexibility to
    be customized to accommodate our clients’ specific needs.
    We have also built into the system marketing tools to assist our
    clients in increasing sales. We utilize our Quick Credit and
    On-Line Prescreen products to originate new private label credit
    card accounts. We believe that these products provide an
    effective marketing advantage over competing services.


 


    We use automated technology for bill preparation, printing and
    mailing, as well as offer consumers the ability to view, print
    and pay their bills on-line. By doing so, we improve the funds
    availability for both our clients and for those private label
    credit card receivables that we own or securitize.


 


    Our customer care operations are influenced by our retail
    heritage. We focus our training programs in all areas to achieve
    the highest possible standards. We monitor our performance by
    conducting surveys with our clients and their customers. Our
    call centers are equipped to handle phone, mail, fax and on-line
    inquiries. We also provide collection activities on delinquent
    accounts to support our retail private label credit card
    programs.


 


    Utility Services.  We believe that we are one
    of the largest independent service providers of customer
    information systems for utilities in North America. We provide a
    comprehensive single source business solution for customer care
    and billing solutions. We have solutions for the regulated,
    de-regulated and municipal marketplace. These solutions provide
    not only hosting of the customer information system, but also
    customer care, statement generation and payment processing. We
    focus on the successful acquisition, value enhancement and
    retention of our clients’ customers.


 


    In both a regulated and de-regulated environment, providers will
    need more sophisticated and complex billing and customer
    information systems to effectively compete in the marketplace.
    We believe that our ability to integrate transaction and
    marketing services effectively provides a competitive advantage
    for us.


 


    Merchant Services.  We are a provider of
    transaction processing services with an emphasis on the
    U.S. petroleum retail industry. We have built a network
    that enables us to process virtually all electronic payment
    types including credit card, debit card, prepaid card, gift
    card, electronic benefits and check transactions.



    
    8



Table of Contents



 



    Safeguards
    to Our Business; Disaster and Contingency Planning


 


    We have a number of safeguards to protect our company from the
    risks we face as a business. Given the significant amount of
    data that we manage, much of which is real-time data to support
    our clients’ commerce initiatives, we have established
    redundant capabilities for our data centers. We operate multiple
    data processing centers. In the event of a disaster we can
    restore our data centers’ systems at a third party-provided
    disaster recovery center for the majority of our clients’
    data, and recover internally for the remaining critical systems.
    Our approach to disaster recovery is consistent with best
    practices in our industry and our clients’ needs.


 



    Protection
    of Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights


 


    We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and
    trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual
    provisions and other similar measures to protect our proprietary
    information and technology used in each segment of our business.
    We currently have five patent applications pending with the U.S.
    Patent and Trademark Office and two international applications,
    both of which have entered the national phase in one other
    country. We generally enter into confidentiality or license
    agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate
    partners, and generally control access to and distribution of
    our technology, documentation and other proprietary information.
    Despite the efforts to protect our proprietary rights,
    unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain the
    use of our products or technology that we consider proprietary
    and third parties may attempt to develop similar technology
    independently. We pursue registration and protection of our
    trademarks primarily in the United States and Canada, although
    we do have applications pending in Mexico, South America and
    Europe. Effective protection of intellectual property rights may
    be unavailable or limited in some countries. The laws of some
    countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same
    extent as in the United States and Canada. We are the exclusive
    Canadian licensee of the AIR MILES family of trademarks pursuant
    to a license agreement with Air Miles International Trading B.V.
    We believe that the AIR MILES family of trademarks and our other
    trademarks are important for our branding and corporate
    identification and marketing of our services in each segment.


 



    Competition


 


    The markets for our products and services are highly
    competitive. We compete with marketing services companies,
    credit card issuers, and data processing companies, as well as
    with the in-house staffs of our current and potential clients.


 


    Marketing Services.  As a provider of
    marketing services, we generally compete with advertising and
    other promotional and loyalty programs, both traditional and
    on-line, for a portion of a client’s total marketing
    budget. In addition, we compete against internally developed
    products and services created by our existing and potential
    clients. For each of our marketing services, we expect
    competition to intensify as more competitors enter our market.
    In addition, new competitors with our AIR MILES Reward Program
    may target our sponsors and collectors as well as draw rewards
    from our rewards suppliers. Our ability to generate significant
    revenue from clients and loyalty partners will depend on our
    ability to differentiate ourselves through the products and
    services we provide and the attractiveness of our loyalty and
    rewards programs to consumers. The continued attractiveness of
    our loyalty and rewards programs will depend in large part on
    our ability to remain affiliated with sponsors that are
    desirable to consumers and to offer rewards that are both
    attainable and attractive to consumers. Intensifying competition
    may make it more difficult for us to do this. For our targeted
    marketing services offerings, our ability to continue to capture
    detailed transaction data on consumers is critical in providing
    effective customer relationship management strategies for our
    clients. Our ability to differentiate the mix of products and
    services that we offer, together with the effective delivery of
    those products and services, are also important factors in
    meeting our clients’ objective to continually improve their
    return on marketing investment.


 


    Credit Services.  Our credit services
    business competes primarily with financial institutions whose
    marketing focus has been on developing credit card programs with
    large revolving balances. These competitors further drive their
    businesses by cross selling their other financial products to
    their cardholders. Our focus has been on targeting retailers
    that understand the competitive advantage of developing loyal
    customers. Typically



    
    9



Table of Contents




    these retailers have customers that make more frequent and
    smaller transactions. This results in the effective capture of
    detail-rich data within our marketing services, allowing us to
    mine and analyze this data to develop successful customer
    relationship management strategies for our clients. As an issuer
    of private label credit cards, we compete with other payment
    methods, primarily general purpose credit cards like Visa and
    MasterCard, which we also issue primarily as co-branded private
    label credit cards, American Express, and Discover Card, as well
    as cash, checks and debit cards.


 


    Transaction Services.  As a provider of
    transaction services, our focus has been on industry segments
    characterized by companies with large customer bases,
    detail-rich data and high transaction volumes. Targeting these
    specific market sectors allows us to develop and deliver
    solutions that meet the needs of these sectors. This focus is
    consistent with our marketing strategy for all products and
    services. Additionally, we believe we effectively distinguish
    ourselves from other transaction processors by providing
    solutions that help our clients leverage investments they have
    made in payment systems by using these systems for electronic
    marketing programs. Competition in the area of utility services
    comes primarily from larger, more well-funded and
    well-established
    competitors and from companies developing in-house solutions and
    capabilities.


 



    Regulation


 


    Federal and state laws and regulations extensively regulate the
    operations of our credit card services bank subsidiary, World
    Financial Network National Bank, as well as our industrial bank,
    World Financial Capital Bank. Many of these laws and regulations
    are intended to maintain the safety and soundness of World
    Financial Network National Bank and World Financial Capital
    Bank, and they impose significant restraints on them to which
    other non-regulated companies are not subject. Because World
    Financial Network National Bank is deemed a credit card bank and
    World Financial Capital Bank is an industrial bank within the
    meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, we are not subject to
    regulation as a bank holding company. If we were subject to
    regulation as a bank holding company, we would be constrained in
    our operations to a limited number of activities that are
    closely related to banking or financial services in nature.
    Nevertheless, as a national bank, World Financial Network
    National Bank is still subject to overlapping supervision by the
    Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of
    the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit
    Insurance Corporation; and, as an industrial bank, World
    Financial Capital Bank is still subject to overlapping
    supervision by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the
    State of Utah.


 


    World Financial Network National Bank and World Financial
    Capital Bank must maintain minimum amounts of regulatory
    capital. If World Financial Network National Bank or World
    Financial Capital Bank do not meet these capital requirements,
    their respective regulators have broad discretion to institute a
    number of corrective actions that could have a direct material
    effect on our financial statements. World Financial Capital
    Bank, as an institution insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation, must maintain certain capital ratios, paid-in
    capital minimums and adequate allowances for loan losses. World
    Financial Network National Bank must meet specific guidelines
    that involve measures and ratios of its assets, liabilities,
    regulatory capital, interest rate exposure and certain
    off-balance sheet items under regulatory accounting standards,
    among other factors. Under the National Bank Act, if the capital
    stock of World Financial Network National Bank is impaired by
    losses or otherwise, we, as the sole shareholder, may be
    assessed the deficiency. To the extent necessary, if a
    deficiency in capital still exists, the Federal Deposit
    Insurance Corporation may be appointed as a receiver to wind up
    World Financial Network National Bank’s affairs.


 


    Before World Financial Network National Bank can pay dividends
    to us, it must obtain prior regulatory approval if all dividends
    declared in any calendar year would exceed its net profits for
    that year plus its retained net profits for the preceding two
    calendar years, less any transfers to surplus. In addition,
    World Financial Network National Bank may only pay dividends to
    the extent that retained net profits, including the portion
    transferred to surplus, exceed bad debts. Moreover, to pay any
    dividend, World Financial Network National Bank must maintain
    adequate capital above regulatory guidelines. Further, if a
    regulatory authority believes that World Financial Network
    National Bank is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe
    or unsound banking practice, which, depending on its financial
    condition, could include the payment of dividends, that
    regulatory authority may require, after notice and hearing, that
    World Financial Network



    
    10



Table of Contents




    National Bank cease and desist from the unsafe practice. Before
    World Financial Capital Bank can pay dividends to us, it must
    obtain prior written regulatory approval.


 


    As part of an acquisition in 2003 by World Financial Network
    National Bank, which required approval by the Office of the
    Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of the Comptroller of
    the Currency required World Financial Network National Bank to
    enter into an operating agreement with it and a capital adequacy
    and liquidity maintenance agreement with us. The operating
    agreement requires World Financial Network National Bank to
    continue to operate in a manner consistent with its current
    practices, regulatory guidelines, and applicable law, including
    those related to affiliate transactions, maintenance of capital
    and corporate governance. This operating agreement has not
    required any changes in World Financial Network National
    Bank’s operations. The capital adequacy and liquidity
    maintenance agreement memorializes our current obligations to
    World Financial Network National Bank.


 


    We are limited under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal
    Reserve Act in the extent to which we can borrow or otherwise
    obtain credit from or engage in other “covered
    transactions” with World Financial Network National Bank or
    World Financial Capital Bank, which may have the effect of
    limiting the extent to which World Financial Network National
    Bank or World Financial Capital Bank can finance or otherwise
    supply funds to us. “Covered transactions” include
    loans or extensions of credit, purchases of or investments in
    securities, purchases of assets, including assets subject to an
    agreement to repurchase, acceptance of securities as collateral
    for a loan or extension of credit, or the issuance of a
    guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit. Although the
    applicable rules do not serve as an outright bar on engaging in
    “covered transactions,” they do require that we engage
    in “covered transactions” with World Financial Network
    National Bank or World Financial Capital Bank only on terms and
    under circumstances that are substantially the same, or at least
    as favorable to World Financial Network National Bank or World
    Financial Capital Bank, as those prevailing at the time for
    comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies.
    Furthermore, with certain exceptions, each loan or extension of
    credit by World Financial Network National Bank or World
    Financial Capital Bank to us or our other affiliates must be
    secured by collateral with a market value ranging from 100% to
    130% of the amount of the loan or extension of credit, depending
    on the type of collateral.


 


    We are required to monitor and report unusual or suspicious
    account activity as well as transactions involving amounts in
    excess of prescribed limits under the Bank Secrecy Act, Internal
    Revenue Service, or IRS, rules, and other regulations. Congress,
    the IRS and the bank regulators have focused their attention on
    banks’ monitoring and reporting of suspicious activities.
    Additionally, Congress and the bank regulators have proposed,
    adopted or passed a number of new laws and regulations that may
    increase reporting obligations of banks.


 


    We are also subject to numerous laws and regulations that are
    intended to protect consumers, including state law, the Truth in
    Lending Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Credit
    Reporting Act. These laws and regulations mandate various
    disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which we may
    interact with consumers. These and other laws also limit finance
    charges or other fees or charges earned in our activities. We
    conduct our operations in a manner that we believe excludes us
    from regulation as a consumer reporting agency under the Fair
    Credit Reporting Act. If we were deemed a consumer reporting
    agency, however, we would be subject to a number of additional
    complex regulatory requirements and restrictions.


 


    A number of privacy regulations have been implemented in the
    United States, Canada, the European Union and China in recent
    years. These regulations place many new restrictions on our
    ability to collect and disseminate customer information. In
    addition, the enactment of new or amended legislation around the
    world could place additional restrictions on our ability to
    utilize customer information.


 


    Under the Gramm Leach Bliley Act, we are required to maintain a
    comprehensive written information security program that includes
    administrative, technical and physical safeguards relating to
    customer information. We also were required to develop an
    initial privacy notice and we are required to provide annual
    privacy notices to customers that describe in general terms our
    information sharing practices. If we intend to share nonpublic
    personal information about customers with nonaffiliated third
    parties, we must provide our customers with a notice and a
    reasonable period of time for each customer to “opt
    out” of any such disclosure.



    
    11



Table of Contents



 


    In addition to the federal privacy laws with which we must
    comply, states also have adopted statutes, regulations or other
    measures governing the collection and distribution of personal
    information about customers. In some cases these state measures
    are preempted by federal law, but if not, we make efforts to
    monitor and comply with individual state privacy laws in the
    conduct of our business.


 


    We also have systems and processes to comply with the USA
    PATRIOT ACT of 2001, which is designed to deter and punish
    terrorist acts in the United States and around the world, to
    enhance law enforcement investigatory tools, and for other
    purposes.


 


    Canada has likewise enacted privacy legislation known as the
    Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act.
    This act requires organizations to obtain a consumer’s
    consent to collect, use or disclose personal information. Under
    this act, which took effect on January 1, 2001, the nature
    of the required consent depends on the sensitivity of the
    personal information, and the act permits personal information
    to be used only for the purposes for which it was collected.
    Some provinces have enacted substantially similar privacy
    legislation. We believe we have taken appropriate steps with our
    AIR MILES Reward Program to comply with the law.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2006 we had approximately 9,300
    employees. We believe our relations with our employees are good.
    We have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    We file or furnish annual, quarterly, current and special
    reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC.
    You may read and copy, for a fee, any document we file or
    furnish at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
    NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the
    SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330
    for further information on the Public Reference Room. Our SEC
    filings are also available to the public at the SEC’s web
    site at www.sec.gov. Our web site is
    www.AllianceData.com. No information from this web site
    is incorporated by reference herein. You may also obtain copies
    of our annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements
    and certain other information filed or furnished with the SEC,
    as well as amendments thereto, free of charge from our web site.
    These documents are posted to our web site as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we have filed or furnished these documents
    with the SEC. We post our audit committee, compensation
    committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, and
    executive committee charters, our corporate governance
    guidelines, and our code of ethics, code of ethics for Senior
    Financial Executives and Chief Executive Officer, and code of
    ethics for Board Members on our web site. These documents are
    available free of charge to any stockholder upon request.


 


    We submitted the certification of the Chief Executive Officer
    required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock
    Exchange Listed Company Manual, relating to our compliance with
    the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards, to the
    NYSE on June 19, 2006 with no qualification. In addition,
    we included the certifications of our Chief Executive Officer
    and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules, relating to the
    quality of our public disclosure, in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2.



    
    12



Table of Contents



 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Risk
    Factors
    


 



    Risks
    Related to General Business Operations


 



    Our 10
    largest clients represented 43.7% of our consolidated revenue in
    2006, and the loss of any of these clients could cause a
    significant drop in our revenue.


 


    We depend on a limited number of large clients for a significant
    portion of our consolidated revenue. Our 10 largest clients
    represented approximately 43.7% of our consolidated revenue
    during the year ended December 31, 2006, with Limited
    Brands and its retail affiliates representing approximately
    12.3% of our 2006 consolidated revenue. Our contracts with
    Limited Brands and its retail affiliates expire in 2012. A
    decrease in revenue from any of our significant clients for any
    reason, including a decrease in pricing or activity, or a
    decision to either utilize another service provider or to no
    longer outsource some or all of the services we provide, could
    have a material adverse effect on our consolidated revenue.


 


    Marketing Services.  Our 10 largest clients in
    this segment represented approximately 53.2% of our Marketing
    Services revenue in 2006. BMO Bank of Montreal represented
    approximately 22.2% of this segment’s 2006 revenue. Our
    contract with BMO Bank of Montreal expires in 2009.


 


    Credit Services.  Our 10 largest clients in
    this segment represented approximately 84.9% of our Credit
    Services revenue in 2006. Limited Brands and its retail
    affiliates represented approximately 33.6%, and Redcats
    represented approximately 11.8% of our Credit Services revenue
    in 2006. Our contracts with Limited Brands and its retail
    affiliates expire in 2012, and our contract with Redcats expires
    in 2016.


 


    Transaction Services.  Our 10 largest clients
    in this segment represented approximately 48.2% of our
    Transaction Services revenue in 2006. Limited Brands and its
    retail affiliates were the largest Transaction Services client
    in 2006, representing approximately 15.5% of this segment’s
    2006 revenue. Our contracts with Limited Brands and its retail
    affiliates expire in 2012.


 



    Competition
    in our industries is intense and we expect it to
    intensify.


 


    The markets for our products and services are highly competitive
    and we expect competition to intensify in each of those markets.
    Many of our current competitors have longer operating histories,
    stronger brand names and greater financial, technical, marketing
    and other resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we
    will be able to compete successfully against our current and
    potential competitors.


 



    The
    markets for the services that we offer may fail to expand or may
    contract and this could negatively impact our growth and
    profitability.


 


    Our growth and continued profitability depend on acceptance of
    the services that we offer. If demand for marketing, credit or
    transaction services decreases, the price of our common stock
    could fall and you could lose value in your investment. We
    cannot guarantee that retailers will continue to use loyalty and
    targeted marketing strategies. Changes in technology may enable
    merchants and retail companies to directly process transactions
    in a cost-efficient manner without the use of our services.
    Additionally, downturns in the economy or the performance of
    retailers may result in a decrease in the demand for our
    marketing strategies. Further, if customers make fewer purchases
    of their products and services, we will have fewer transactions
    to process, resulting in lower revenue. Any decrease in the
    demand for our services for the reasons discussed above or any
    other reasons could have a materially adverse effect on our
    growth and revenue.


 



    We
    cannot assure you that we will effectively integrate
    acquisitions or realize their full benefits, and future
    acquisitions may result in dilutive equity issuances or
    increases in debt.


 


    Historically, we have completed several acquisitions in each
    year. We expect to continue to seek selective acquisitions as an
    element of our growth strategy. If we are unable to successfully
    integrate completed or any future acquisitions, we may incur
    substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or
    financial



    
    13



Table of Contents




    problems, any of which could harm our business and impact the
    trading price of our common stock. In addition, the failure to
    successfully integrate any future acquisition may divert
    management’s attention from our core operations or could
    harm our ability to meet the needs of our customers. To finance
    future acquisitions, we may need to raise funds either by
    issuing equity securities or incurring debt. If we issue
    additional equity securities, such sales could reduce the
    current value of our stock by diluting the ownership interest of
    our stockholders.


 



    Failure
    to safeguard our databases and consumer privacy could affect our
    reputation among our clients and their customers, and may expose
    us to legal claims.


 


    An important feature of our marketing and credit services is our
    ability to develop and maintain individual consumer profiles. As
    part of our AIR MILES Reward Program, targeted marketing
    services programs and credit card programs, we maintain
    marketing databases containing information on consumers’
    account transactions. Although we have extensive security
    procedures, our databases may be subject to unauthorized access.
    If we experience a security breach, the integrity of our
    marketing databases could be affected. Security and privacy
    concerns may cause consumers to resist providing the personal
    data necessary to support our profiling capability. The use of
    our loyalty, marketing services or credit card programs could
    decline if any compromise of security occurred. Any public
    perception that we released consumer information without
    authorization could subject us to legal claims from consumers or
    regulatory enforcement actions and adversely affect our client
    relationships.


 



    As a
    result of our significant Canadian operations, our reported
    financial information will be affected by fluctuations in the
    exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian
    dollars.


 


    A significant portion of our Marketing Services revenue is
    derived from our operations in Canada, which transacts business
    in Canadian dollars. Therefore, our reported financial
    information from
    quarter-to-quarter
    will be affected by changes in the exchange rate between the
    U.S. and Canadian dollars over the relevant periods. We do not
    hedge any of our net investment exposure in our Canadian
    subsidiary.


 



    The
    hedging activity related to our securitization trusts subjects
    us to off-balance sheet counterparty risks relating to the
    creditworthiness of the commercial banks with whom we enter into
    hedging transactions.


 


    In order to execute hedging strategies, the securitization
    trusts have entered into interest rate derivative contracts with
    commercial banks. These banks are otherwise known as
    counterparties. It is our policy to enter into such contracts
    with counterparties that are deemed to be creditworthy. However,
    if macro- or micro-economic events were to negatively impact
    these banks, the banks might not be able to honor their
    obligations to the securitization trusts and we might suffer a
    loss related to our residual interest in the securitization
    trusts.


 



    Our
    failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our
    competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual
    property rights or defend against third party allegations of
    infringement may be costly.


 


    Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks or
    other intellectual property rights, which could have a
    materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition
    or operating results. The actions we take to protect our
    trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate.
    Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property
    rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and
    scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you
    that we will be able to prevent infringement of our intellectual
    property rights or misappropriation of our proprietary
    information. Any infringement or misappropriation could harm any
    competitive advantage we currently derive or may derive from our
    proprietary rights. Third parties may assert infringement claims
    against us. Any claims and any resulting litigation could
    subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse
    determination in any litigation of this type could require us to
    design around a third party’s patent or to license
    alternative technology from another party. In addition,
    litigation is time-consuming and expensive to defend and could
    result in the diversion of our time and



    
    14



Table of Contents




    resources. Any claims from third parties may also result in
    limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property
    subject to these claims.


 



    Loss
    of data center capacity, interruption of telecommunication
    links, or inability to utilize proprietary software of third
    party vendors could affect our ability to timely meet the needs
    of our clients and their customers.


 


    Our ability to protect our data centers against damage or
    inoperability from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure
    and other disasters is critical. In order to provide many of our
    services, we must be able to store, retrieve, process and manage
    large databases and periodically expand and upgrade our
    capabilities. Any damage to our data centers, any failure of our
    telecommunication links that interrupts our operations or any
    impairment of our ability to use software could adversely affect
    our ability to meet our clients’ needs and their confidence
    in utilizing us for future services.


 



    If we
    are required to pay state taxes on transaction processing, it
    could negatively impact our profitability.


 


    Transaction processing companies may be subject to state
    taxation of certain portions of their fees charged to merchants
    for their services. If we are required to pay such taxes and are
    unable to pass this tax expense through to our merchant clients,
    these taxes would negatively impact our profitability.


 



    Risks
    Particular to Marketing Services


 



    If
    actual redemptions by AIR MILES Reward Program collectors are
    greater than expected, our profitability could be adversely
    affected.


 


    A portion of our revenue is based on our estimate of the number
    of AIR MILES reward miles that will go unused by the collector
    base. The percentage of unredeemed reward miles is known as
    “breakage” in the loyalty industry. AIR MILES reward
    miles currently do not expire. We experience breakage when
    reward miles are not redeemed by collectors for a number of
    reasons, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    loss of interest in the program or sponsors;



 


     
        • 

    
    collectors moving out of the program area; and



 


     
        • 

    
    death of a collector.





 


    If actual redemptions are greater than our estimates, our
    profitability could be adversely affected due to the cost of the
    excess redemptions.


 



    We
    could face increased competition from other loyalty programs,
    including Aeroplan, Air Canada’s frequent flyer
    program.


 


    As a result of increasing competitors in the loyalty market,
    including from Aeroplan, Air Canada’s frequent flyer
    program, we may experience greater competition in attracting and
    retaining sponsors in our AIR MILES Reward Program.


 



    The
    loss of our most active AIR MILES Reward Program collectors
    could negatively affect our growth and
    profitability.


 


    Our most active AIR MILES Reward Program collectors drive a
    disproportionately large percentage of our AIR MILES Reward
    Program revenue. We estimate that over half of the AIR MILES
    Reward Program revenues for 2007 will be associated with our AIR
    MILES Reward Program collectors who participate most actively.
    The loss of a significant portion of these collectors, for any
    reason, could impact our ability to generate significant revenue
    from sponsors and loyalty partners. The continued attractiveness
    of our loyalty and rewards programs will depend in large part on
    our ability to remain affiliated with sponsors that are
    desirable to consumers and to offer rewards that are both
    attainable and attractive.



    
    15



Table of Contents



 



    Airline
    or travel industry disruptions, such as an airline insolvency,
    could negatively affect the AIR MILES Reward Program, our
    revenues and profitability.


 


    Air travel is one of the appeals of the AIR MILES Reward Program
    to collectors. As a result of airline insolvencies and
    restructurings, we may experience service disruptions that
    prevent us from fulfilling collectors’ flight redemption
    requests. If one of our existing airline suppliers sharply
    reduces its fleet capacity and route network, we may not be able
    to satisfy our collectors’ demands for airline tickets.
    Tickets from other airlines, if available, could be more
    expensive than a comparable ticket under our current supply
    agreements with existing suppliers, and the routes offered by
    the other airlines may be inadequate, inconvenient or
    undesirable to the redeeming collectors. As a result, we may
    experience higher air travel redemption costs and collector
    satisfaction with the AIR MILES Reward Program might be
    adversely affected.


 


    As a result of airline or travel industry disruptions, political
    instability, terrorist acts, or war, some collectors could
    determine that air travel is too dangerous or burdensome.
    Consequently, collectors might forego redeeming reward miles for
    air travel and therefore might not participate in the AIR MILES
    Reward Program to the extent they previously did, which could
    adversely affect our revenue from the program.


 



    Legislation
    relating to consumer privacy may affect our ability to collect
    data that we use in providing our marketing services, which
    could negatively affect our ability to satisfy our clients’
    needs.


 


    The enactment of new or amended legislation or industry
    regulations arising from public concern over consumer privacy
    issues could have a materially adverse impact on our marketing
    services. Any such legislation or industry regulations could
    place restrictions upon the collection and use of information
    that is currently legally available, which could materially
    increase our cost of collecting some data. Legislation or
    industry regulation could also prohibit us from collecting or
    disseminating certain types of data, which could adversely
    affect our ability to meet our clients’ requirements and
    our profitability and our cash flow. In addition to the United
    States and Canadian regulations discussed in detail below, we
    have recently expanded our marketing services through the
    acquisition of companies formed and operating in foreign
    jurisdictions that may be subject to additional legislation and
    regulations regarding consumer privacy.


 


    In the United States, federal and state laws such as the federal
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act make it more difficult to collect and use
    information that has been legally available and may increase our
    costs of collecting some data. Regulations under this act give
    cardholders the ability to “opt out” of having
    information generated by their credit card purchases shared with
    other parties or the public. Our ability to gather and utilize
    this data will be adversely affected if a significant percentage
    of the consumers whose purchasing behavior we track elect to
    “opt out,” thereby precluding us from using their
    data. Under the regulations, we generally are required to
    refrain from sharing data generated by our new cardholders until
    such cardholders are provided the opportunity to “opt
    out.”


 


    In the United States, the federal Do-Not-Call Implementation Act
    makes it more difficult to telephonically communicate with
    customers. Regulations under this act give consumers the ability
    to “opt out,” through a national do-not-call list, a
    state do-not-call list or an internal do-not-call list which is
    required by the regulation, of having telephone calls placed to
    them by telemarketers who do not have an existing business
    relationship with the consumer. This act could limit our ability
    to provide services and information to our clients. Failure to
    comply with the terms of this act could have a negative impact
    to our reputation and subject us to significant penalties.


 


    In the United States, the federal Controlling the Assault of
    Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act restricts our
    ability to send commercial electronic mail messages to
    customers. The act requires that a customer provide consent
    prior to a commercial electronic mail message being sent to the
    customer and further restricts the transmission information
    (header/subject line) and content of the electronic mail
    message. Under the regulation, we generally are prohibited from
    issuing electronic mail or obtaining a benefit from an
    electronic mail message until such time as the customer has
    affirmatively granted permission for us to do so. Failure to
    comply with the terms of this act could have a negative impact
    to our reputation and subject us to significant penalties.



    
    16



Table of Contents



 


    In Canada, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic
    Documents Act requires an organization to obtain a
    consumer’s consent to collect, use or disclose personal
    information. Under this act, consumer personal information may
    be used only for the purposes for which it was collected. We
    allow our customers to voluntarily “opt out” from
    receiving either one or both promotional and marketing mail or
    promotional and marketing electronic mail. Heightened consumer
    awareness of, and concern about, privacy may result in customers
    “opting out” at higher rates than they have
    historically. This would mean that a reduced number of customers
    would receive bonus and promotional offers and therefore those
    customers would collect fewer AIR MILES reward miles.


 



    Risks
    Particular to Credit Services


 



    If we
    are unable to securitize our credit card receivables due to
    changes in the market, the unavailability of credit
    enhancements, an early amortization event or for other reasons,
    we would not be able to fund new credit card receivables, which
    would have a negative impact on our operations and
    earnings.


 


    Since January 1996, we have sold substantially all of the credit
    card receivables originated by World Financial Network National
    Bank to WFN Credit Company, LLC and WFN Funding Company II,
    LLC, which in turn sold them to World Financial Network Credit
    Card Master Trust, World Financial Network Credit Card Master
    Note Trust and World Financial Network Credit Card Master
    Trust III, which we refer to as the WFN Trusts, as part of
    our securitization program. This securitization program is the
    primary vehicle through which we finance World Financial Network
    National Bank’s credit card receivables. We have
    approximately $600.0 million of asset-backed notes that
    will come due in 2007. If World Financial Network National Bank
    was not able to regularly securitize the receivables it
    originates, our ability to grow or even maintain our credit
    services business would be materially impaired. World Financial
    Network National Bank’s ability to effect securitization
    transactions is impacted by the following factors, some of which
    are beyond our control:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    conditions in the securities markets in general and the
    asset-backed securitization market in particular;



 


     
        • 

    
    conformity in the quality of credit card receivables to rating
    agency requirements and changes in those requirements; and



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to fund required overcollateralizations or credit
    enhancements, which we routinely utilize in order to achieve
    better credit ratings, which lowers our borrowing costs.





 


    Once World Financial Network National Bank securitizes
    receivables, the agreement governing the transaction contains
    covenants that address the receivables’ performance and the
    continued solvency of the retailer where the underlying sales
    were generated. In the event such a covenant or other similar
    covenant is breached, an early amortization event could be
    declared, whereby, the trustee for the securitization trust
    would retain World Financial Network National Bank’s
    interest in the related receivables, along with the excess
    interest income that would normally be paid to World Financial
    Network National Bank, until the securitization investors are
    fully repaid. The occurrence of an early amortization event
    would significantly limit, or even negate, our ability to
    securitize additional receivables.


 



    Increases
    in net charge-offs beyond our current estimates could have a
    negative impact on our operating income and
    profitability.


 


    The primary risk associated with unsecured consumer lending is
    the risk of default or bankruptcy of the borrower, resulting in
    the borrower’s balance being charged-off as uncollectible.
    We rely principally on the customer’s creditworthiness for
    repayment of the loan and therefore have no other recourse for
    collection. We may not be able to successfully identify and
    evaluate the creditworthiness of cardholders to minimize
    delinquencies and losses. An increase in defaults or net
    charge-offs beyond historical levels will reduce the net spread
    available to us from the securitization master trust and could
    result in a reduction in finance charge income or a write-down
    of the interest-only strip. General economic factors, such as
    the rate of inflation, unemployment levels and interest rates,
    may result in greater delinquencies that lead to greater credit
    losses. In addition to being affected by general economic
    conditions and the success of our collection and recovery



    
    17



Table of Contents




    efforts, our delinquency and net credit card receivable
    charge-off rates are affected by the credit risk of our credit
    card receivables and the average age of our various credit card
    account portfolios. The average age of our credit card
    receivables affects the stability of delinquency and loss rates
    of the portfolio. An older credit card portfolio generally
    drives a more stable performance in the portfolio. At
    December 31, 2006, 58.3% of the total number of our
    securitized accounts with outstanding balances and 61.4% of the
    amount of our outstanding securitized receivables were for
    accounts with origination dates greater than 24 months old.
    For 2006, our managed receivables net charge-off ratio was 5.0%
    compared to 6.5% for 2005 and 6.8% for 2004. We cannot assure
    you that our pricing strategy can offset the negative impact on
    profitability caused by increases in delinquencies and losses.
    Any material increases in delinquencies and losses beyond our
    current estimates could have a materially adverse impact on us
    and the value of our net retained interests in loans that we
    sell through securitizations.


 



    Changes
    in the amount of payments and defaults by cardholders on credit
    card balances may cause a decrease in the estimated value of
    interest-only strips.


 


    The estimated fair value of interest-only strips depends upon
    the anticipated cash flows of the related credit card
    receivables. A significant factor affecting the anticipated cash
    flows is the rate at which the underlying principal of the
    securitized credit card receivables is reduced. Other
    assumptions used in estimating the value of the interest-only
    strips include estimated future credit losses and a discount
    rate commensurate with the risks involved. The rate of
    cardholder payments or defaults on credit card balances may be
    affected by a variety of economic factors, including interest
    rates and the availability of alternative financing, most of
    which are not within our control. A decrease in interest rates
    could cause cardholder payments to increase, thereby requiring a
    write down of the interest-only strips. If payments from
    cardholders or defaults by cardholders exceed our estimates, we
    may be required to decrease the estimated value of the
    interest-only strips through a charge against earnings.


 



    Increases
    in our interest rates could have a negative impact on our
    operating income and profitability.


 


    An increase in market interest rates may increase interest
    expense on variable interest debt or short-term borrowings,
    which could have an adverse impact on our operating results.
    Specifically, an increase in the cost of funds related to our
    off-balance sheet debt could reduce the amount we realize from
    the excess spread between the yield on our assets and the cost
    of funding on our debt. A rise in market interest rates may
    indirectly impact the payment performance of consumers or the
    value of, or the amount we could realize from, the sale of
    interest-only strips.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


    As of December 31, 2006


 




 


 


    Fixed rate


 


 


    Variable rate


 


 


    Total


 




 


 


    (In millions)


 



 





    Off-balance sheet
    



 


    $


    2,650.0


 


 


    $


    929.2


 


 


    $


    3,579.2


 





    On-balance sheet
    



 


 


    694.3


 


 


 


    350.1


 


 


 


    1,044.4


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


    $


    3,344.3


 


 


    $


    1,279.3


 


 


    $


    4,623.6


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    At December 31, 2006, our fixed rate off-balance sheet debt
    was locked at a current effective interest rate of 4.7% through
    interest rate swap agreements. Additionally, our variable rate
    off-balance sheet debt has variable rate credit cards that are
    at least equal to that amount.



 


     
        • 

    
    At December 31, 2006, our fixed rate on-balance sheet debt
    was subject to fixed rates with a weighted average interest rate
    of 5.7%.





 


    A 1.0% increase in interest rates would result in an estimated
    decrease to pretax income of approximately $8.5 million
    related to our on-balance sheet debt. The foregoing sensitivity
    analysis is limited to the potential impact of an interest rate
    increase of 1.0% on cash flows and fair values, and does not
    address default or credit risk.



    
    18



Table of Contents



 



    We
    expect growth in our credit services segment to result from new
    and acquired credit card programs whose credit card receivable
    performance could result in increased portfolio losses and
    negatively impact our net retained interests in loans
    securitized.


 


    We expect an important source of growth in our credit card
    operations to come from the acquisition of existing credit card
    programs and initiating credit card programs with retailers who
    do not currently offer a private label or co-brand credit card.
    Although we believe our pricing and models for determining
    credit risk are designed to evaluate the credit risk of existing
    programs and the credit risk we are willing to assume for
    acquired and
    start-up
    programs, we cannot assure you that the loss experience on
    acquired and
    start-up
    programs will be consistent with our more established programs.
    The failure to successfully underwrite these credit card
    programs may result in defaults greater than our expectations
    and could have a materially adverse impact on us and the value
    of our net retained interests in receivables securitized.


 



    Current
    and proposed regulation and legislation relating to our credit
    services could limit our business activities, product offerings
    and fees charged.


 


    Various Federal and state laws and regulations significantly
    limit the credit services activities in which we are permitted
    to engage. Such laws and regulations, among other things, limit
    the fees and other charges that we can impose on consumers,
    limit or prescribe certain other terms of our products and
    services, require specified disclosures to consumers, or require
    that we maintain certain licenses, qualifications and minimum
    capital levels. In some cases, the precise application of these
    statutes and regulations is not clear. In addition, numerous
    legislative and regulatory proposals are advanced each year
    which, if adopted, could have a materially adverse effect on our
    profitability or further restrict the manner in which we conduct
    our activities. The failure to comply with, or adverse changes
    in, the laws or regulations to which our business is subject, or
    adverse changes in their interpretation, could have a materially
    adverse effect on our ability to collect our receivables and
    generate fees on the receivables, thereby adversely affecting
    our profitability.


 



    If our
    bank subsidiaries fail to meet certain bank criteria, we may
    become subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act,
    which would force us to cease all of our non-banking activities
    and thus cause a drastic reduction in our profits and
    revenue.


 


    If either of our depository institution subsidiaries failed to
    meet the criteria for the exemption from the definition of
    “bank” in the Bank Holding Company Act under which it
    operates (which exemptions are described below), and if we did
    not divest such depository institution upon such an occurrence,
    we would become subject to regulation under the Bank Holding
    Company Act. This would require us to cease certain of our
    activities that are not permissible for companies that are
    subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act.


 


    One of our depository institution subsidiaries, World Financial
    Network National Bank, is a limited-purpose national credit card
    bank located in Ohio. World Financial Network National Bank is
    not a “bank” as defined under the Bank Holding Company
    Act because it is in compliance with the following requirements:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    it engages only in credit card operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    it does not accept demand deposits or deposits that the
    depositor may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to
    third parties;



 


     
        • 

    
    it does not accept any savings or time deposits of less than
    $100,000, except for deposits pledged as collateral for its
    extensions of credit;



 


     
        • 

    
    it maintains only one office that accepts deposits; and



 


     
        • 

    
    it does not engage in the business of making commercial loans.





 


    Our other depository institution subsidiary, World Financial
    Capital Bank, is a Utah industrial bank that is authorized to do
    business by the State of Utah and the Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation. World Financial



    
    19



Table of Contents




    Capital Bank is not a “bank” as defined under the Bank
    Holding Company Act because it is an industrial bank in
    compliance with the following requirements:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    it is an institution organized under the laws of a state which,
    on March 5, 1987, had in effect or had under consideration
    in such state’s legislature a statute which required or
    would require such institution to obtain insurance under the
    Federal Deposit Insurance Act; and



 


     
        • 

    
    it does not accept demand deposits that the depositor may
    withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties.





 



    If our
    industrial bank fails to meet the requirements of the Federal
    Deposit Insurance Corporation or State of Utah, we may be
    subject to termination of our industrial bank.


 


    Our industrial bank, World Financial Capital Bank, is authorized
    to do business by the State of Utah and the Federal Deposit
    Insurance Corporation. World Financial Capital Bank is subject
    to capital ratios and paid-in capital minimums and must maintain
    adequate allowances for loan losses. If World Financial Capital
    Bank fails to meet the requirements of the Federal Deposit
    Insurance Corporation or the State of Utah, it may be subject to
    termination as an industrial bank.


 



    Risks
    Particular to Transaction Services


 



    In
    2006, our Transaction Services segment derived approximately
    46.1% of its revenue from servicing cardholder accounts for the
    Credit Services segment. If the Credit Services segment suffered
    a significant client loss, our revenue and profitability
    attributable to the Transaction Services segment could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 


    Our Transaction Services segment performs card processing and
    servicing activities for cardholder accounts generated by our
    Credit Services segment. During 2006, our Transaction Services
    segment derived $357.8 million, or 46.1% of its revenues,
    from these services for our Credit Services segment. The
    financial performance of our Transaction Services segment,
    therefore, is linked to the activities of our Credit Services
    segment. If the Credit Services segment were to lose a
    significant client, our revenue and profitability attributable
    to the Transaction Services segment could be materially and
    adversely affected.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Company


 



    Delaware
    law and our charter documents could prevent a change of control
    that might be beneficial to you.


 


    Delaware law, as well as provisions of our certificate of
    incorporation and bylaws, could discourage unsolicited proposals
    to acquire us, even though such proposals may be beneficial to
    you. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a board of directors classified into three classes of directors
    with the directors of each class having staggered, three-year
    terms;



 


     
        • 

    
    our board’s authority to issue shares of preferred stock
    without further stockholder approval; and



 


     
        • 

    
    provisions of Delaware law that restrict many business
    combinations and provide that directors serving on staggered
    boards of directors, such as ours, may be removed only for cause.





 


    These provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and
    Delaware law could discourage tender offers or other
    transactions that might otherwise result in our stockholders
    receiving a premium over the market price for our common stock.



    
    20



Table of Contents



 



    Future
    sales of our common stock, or the perception that future sales
    could occur, may adversely affect our common stock
    price.


 


    As of February 22, 2007, we had an aggregate of
    99,950,429 shares of our common stock authorized but
    unissued and not reserved for specific purposes. Except with
    respect to issuances pursuant to new equity compensation plans,
    to certain related parties, or that would result in a change of
    control, in general, we may issue all of these shares without
    any action or approval by our stockholders. We have reserved
    21,003,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under
    our employee stock purchase plan and our long-term incentive
    plans, of which 6,319,366 shares are issuable upon vesting
    of restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, and upon
    exercise of options granted as of February 22, 2007,
    including options to purchase approximately
    2,639,696 shares exercisable as of February 22, 2007
    or that will become exercisable within 60 days after
    February 22, 2007. We have reserved for issuance
    1,500,000 shares of our common stock, all of which remain
    issuable, under our 401(k) and Retirement Savings Plan. In
    addition, we may pursue acquisitions of competitors and related
    businesses and may issue shares of our common stock in
    connection with these acquisitions. Sales or issuances of a
    substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception
    that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing
    market prices of our common stock, and any sale or issuance of
    our common stock will dilute the percentage ownership held by
    our stockholders.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B