, “Risk Factors.”MARKETING AND SALESWe license or sell our products and services globally, primarily through indirect channels consisting of distributors and resellers.  To a lesser extent we also transact directly with customers who are primarily large corporations. Our indirect channel model includes both a two-tiered distribution structure, where distributors sell to resellers, and a one-tiered structure, where Autodesk sells directly to resellers. We have a network of approximately 2,400 resellers and distributors worldwide. For fiscal 2013, approximately 83% of our revenue was derived from indirect channel sales through distributors and resellers, and we expect that the majority of our revenue will continue to be derived from indirect channel sales in the future. We employ a variety of incentive programs and promotions to align our reseller channel with our business strategies. Sales through our largest distributor, Tech Data Corporation and its affiliates, accounted for 23%, 17% and 16% of our net revenue for fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. On October 27, 2011, Tech Data purchased certain assets of Mensch and Maschine Software (“MuM”), which has been a distributor of our products in Europe. The acquisition concentrates additional sales through Tech Data, which on a consolidated basis would have accounted for 21% and 22% of our net revenue for fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively, if the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of fiscal 2011. We believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data, including following the acquisition of certain assets of MuM. Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between us and Tech Data be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. No other distributor or reseller accounted for 10% or more of our revenue.Our customer-related operations are divided into three geographic regions, the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”); and Asia Pacific (“APAC”). Each geographic region is supported by global marketing and sales organizations. These organizations develop and manage overall marketing and sales programs and work closely with a network of domestic and international sales offices. Fiscal 2013 net revenue in the EMEA, Americas and APAC was $868.5 million (38%), $836.2  8 Table of Contents million (36%) and $607.5 million (26%), respectively. We intend to continue to make our products available in foreign languages. We believe that international sales will continue to comprise the majority of our total net revenue. Adverse economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including emerging economies, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. A summary of our financial information by geographic location is found in Note 13, “Segments,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our international operations and sales subject us to a variety of risks; see , “Risk Factors,” for further discussion.CUSTOMER AND RESELLER SUPPORTWe provide technical support and training to customers through a leveraged support model, augmented by direct programs designed to address certain specific needs. Our customers rely primarily on the resellers and distributors from which they purchased licenses to our products for technical support; however, we do provide certain direct support for some of our customers. We support our resellers and distributors through technical product training, sales training classes, the Internet and telephone. We also provide online support directly to our customers through our maintenance program. There are also a number of user group forums in which customers are able to share information.EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMSWe offer free access to Autodesk software for students and educators around the world. We also offer education programs and specially priced software licensing options tailored for educational institutions, students, and faculty to train the next  9 Table of Contents generation of users.  In addition, we offer classroom support, including standardized curricula developed by educators, instructor development, and a rich assortment of online learning resources. Users are trained on our products at educational institutions, reducing the cost of training for our customers.DEVELOPER PROGRAMSOne of our key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture design of our software products to facilitate third-party development of complementary products and industry-specific software solutions. This approach enables customers and third parties to customize solutions for a wide variety of highly specific uses. We offer several programs that provide marketing, sales, technical support and programming tools to developers who develop add-on applications for our products. Over 3,900 developers in the Autodesk Developer Network create interoperable products that further enhance the range of integrated solutions available to our customers.COMPETITIONThe markets for our products are highly competitive and subject to rapid change. We strive to increase our competitive separation by investing in research and development, allowing us to bring new products to market and create exciting new versions of existing products that offer compelling efficiencies for our customers. We also compete through investments in marketing and sales to more effectively reach new customers and better serve existing customers.Our competitors include large, global, publicly traded companies; small, geographically focused firms; startup firms; and solutions produced in-house by their users. Our primary global competitors in the PSEB, AEC and MFG segments include Adobe Systems Incorporated, ANSYS, Inc., AVEVA Group plc, Bentley Systems, Incorporated, Dassault Systèmes S.A. and its subsidiary Dassault Systèmes SolidWorks Corp., Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI), Intergraph Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hexagon AB, MSC Software Corporation, Nemetschek AG, Parametric Technology Corporation, Siemens Product Lifecycle Software, Inc., and Trimble Navigation Limited.Our M&E segment also competes with a wide range of different companies from large, global, publicly-traded companies to small private entities. Large organizations that produce products that compete in some or all of our markets include Adobe Systems Incorporated, Apple Inc., Avid Technology, Inc., SONY Corporation and Thomson, among others. The media and entertainment market is highly fragmented with complex interdependencies between many of the larger businesses. As a result, some of our competitors also own subsidiaries that are our customers or our partners in developing or bringing to market some of our solutions. In addition to traditional competitors in developed economies, we encounter new competitors in emerging economies.The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing power with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The industry is presently undergoing a platform shift from the personal computer to cloud and mobile computing. This shift lowers barriers to entry and poses a disruptive challenge to established software companies. The design software market is characterized by vigorous competition in each of the vertical markets in which we compete, both from existing competitors and by entry of competitors with innovative technologies. Competition is increasingly enhanced by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies and the possibility that competitors in one vertical segment may enter other vertical segments that we serve. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in these industries are likely to continue to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. See , “Risk Factors,” for further discussion of risks related to protecting our intellectual property.PRODUCTION AND SUPPLIERSThe production of our PSEB, AEC, MFG and certain M&E software products involves duplication of the software media and, for certain products, the printing of user manuals. The purchase of media and the transfer of the software programs onto media for distribution to customers are performed by us and by licensed subcontractors. Media for our products such as DVDs and USB flash drives are available from multiple sources. We offer our maintenance customers an electronic software download option for selected product updates. Customers who choose electronic fulfillment receive the latest version of the software from our vendor’s secure servers. For certain products, user manuals are made available by request only as we work toward reducing our cost of shipping and production as well as the use of natural resources. User manuals and packaging materials are produced to our specifications by outside sources. Production is either performed in leased facilities operated by us or by independent third-party contractors. To date, we have not experienced any material difficulties or delays in the production of our software and documentation.EMPLOYEESAs of January 31, 2013, we employed approximately 7,300 people. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign countries, our employees are represented by work councils. We have never experienced any work stoppages and believe our employee relations are good. Reliance upon employees in other countries entails various risks and changes in these foreign countries, such as government instability or regulation unfavorable to foreign-owned businesses, that could negatively impact our business in the future. 11 Table of Contents ACQUISTIONS  Over the past three years, we acquired new technology or supplemented our technology by purchasing businesses or certain technology related assets focused in specific markets or industries. For the three years ended January 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we acquired a number of companies and certain technology related assets, some of which were accounted for as business combinations.  The following were key acquisitions for fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011: Date of closing  Company  DetailsDecember 2012 PI-VR GmbH ("PI-VR") The PI-VR acquisition brings sophisticated visualization solutions that will strengthen and enhance our expertise in and offerings for automotive visualization.  PI-VR has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the MFG segment.October 2012 Qontext ("Qontext") The Qontext acquisition provides us with an enterprise business and social collaboration platform which extends our reach into design networks via contextual workflows.  This also expands our expertise in cloud and social networking by supplementing existing knowledge in cloud, web, and mobile development. Qontext has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the PSEB segment.August 2012 Socialcam ("Socialcam") The Socialcam acquisition strengthens our ability to make our product line more social, and deliver more mobile/web oriented products. In addition, the acquisition integrated with Autodesk 360 to further provide collaboration features to our professional customers. Socialcam has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the PSEB segment.June 2012 Vela Systems, Inc. ("Vela") The Vela acquisition provides a platform to deliver project information to the point of construction. Vela, integrated with Navisworks, augments the model-based data created in Revit, establishing a bi-direction and visual link between model elements and relevant information - streamlining the information management process from design through construction to hand-over and into operations.  In addition, this acquisition delivers model-based construction via mobile and cloud. Vela has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the AEC segment.December 2011 T-Splines, Inc. ("T-Splines") The T-Splines acquisition strengthens our Digital Prototyping portfolio with more flexible free-form modeling and will help achieve closer integration between industrial design and engineering workflows.  T-Splines has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the MFG segment.October 2011  Micro Application Packages Limited ("MAP")  The MAP acquisition expands our portfolio for MEP contractors and fabricators by providing tools for the manufacturing, fabrication and installation of MEP systems. MAP has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the AEC segment.August 2011 Turbo Squid, Inc. (“Turbo Squid”) The acquisition of certain technology assets from Turbo Squid strengthens our online marketplace platform for our design application users. August 2011  Instructables, Inc.("Instructables")  The Instructables acquisition assists makers of all types by linking Instructables' vibrant online community to our software tools and services, such as SketchBook, 123D and Homestyler that allow anyone to explore design ideas and bring them to life. Instructables has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the PSEB segment.March 2011  Blue Ridge Numerics, Inc. ("Blue Ridge")  The Blue Ridge acquisition broadens our solution for Digital Prototyping to provide customers with a spectrum of computational fluid dynamics (CFD) capabilities that help automate fluid flow and thermal simulation decision-making for designs, while eliminating costly physical prototyping cycles. Blue Ridge has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the MFG segment.March 2011  Scaleform Corporation ("Scaleform")  The Scaleform acquisition furthers Autodesk's ability to provide customers with more complete workflows to more rapidly develop immersive 3D and casual game experiences. Scaleform has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the M&E segment.BACKLOGWe typically ship products shortly after receipt of an order, which is common in the software industry. Our backlog is comprised of current software license product orders which have not yet shipped. The category of current software license product orders which we have not yet shipped consists of orders from customers with approved credit status for currently available software products and may include both orders with current ship dates and orders with ship dates beyond the current fiscal period.Backlog was $20.0 million at January 31, 2013 compared to $27.1 million at January 31, 2012. The actual amount of backlog at any particular time may not be a meaningful indicator of future business prospects as this amount is impacted by a number of factors not related to future trends or events such as the order fulfillment process, the method of software delivery or the linearity of our business within the fiscal period. 12 Table of Contents GLOSSARY OF TERMSBIM (Building Information Modeling)—BIM describes a model-based technology linked with a database of project information, and is the process of generating and managing information throughout the life cycle of a building. BIM is used as a digital representation of the building process to facilitate exchange and interoperability of information in digital formats.Constant currency growth rates—We attempt to represent the changes in the underlying business operations by eliminating fluctuations caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as eliminating hedge gains or losses recorded within the current and comparative period. Our constant currency methodology removes all hedging gains and losses from the calculation.Digital prototyping—Digital prototyping allows designers, architects and engineers to analyze, simulate and visualize a design using a digital or virtual model rather than a physical model.Flagship—Autodesk flagship products are our core design products. Flagship includes the following products: 3ds Max, AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, AutoCAD vertical products (such as AutoCAD Architecture, AutoCAD Map and AutoCAD Mechanical), Civil 3D, Maya, Plant 3D, and Revit products (standalone). New and Adjacent—Autodesk new and adjacent products include Autodesk's new product offerings as well as products that are not included in flagship or suites. New and adjacent includes the following services and products: Autodesk Alias Design products, Autodesk Consulting, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk Constructware, Autodesk consumer products, Autodesk Creative Finishing products, Autodesk Moldflow products, Autodesk Navisworks, Autodesk Simulation, Autodesk Vault products, Autodesk 360 and all other products.Suites—Autodesk design suites are a combination of products that target a specific user objective (product design, building design, etc.) and support a set of workflows for that objective. Our new design and creation suites include: Autodesk Design Suite, Autodesk Building Design Suite, Autodesk Educational/academic Suites, Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, Autodesk Factory Design Suite, Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suite, Autodesk Plant Design Suite, and Autodesk Product Design Suite.  Our previously established suites include: Autodesk Inventor family suites, Autodesk Revit family suites, and education solutions suites. Upgrade—Upgrades allow customers to pay an incremental fee at currently available prices toward the purchase of the latest version of the same product. Upgrades are available only for licenses of software that are up to three versions prior to the latest version available; an upgrade terminates the license to the previous version of the product. A similar exchange and termination of a previous version of a product that is four versions prior to the latest version available is recorded as commercial new revenue. Upgrades also includes crossgrades where a customer pays an incremental fee at currently available prices toward the purchase of a different product. The license to the previous product is terminated.ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSWe operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves significant risks, a number of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following discussion highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on our business, financial condition and future results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted, causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may impact the “forward-looking” statements described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in “forward-looking” statements. Global economic conditions may further impact our business, financial results and financial condition. As our business has expanded globally, we have increasingly become subject to risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and political conditions. The past several years have been characterized by weak global economic conditions, a tightening in the credit markets, relatively high unemployment, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, increased government deficit spending and debt levels, uncertainty about certain governments' abilities to repay such debt or to address certain fiscal issues (such as the “fiscal cliff” and “sequestration” in the United States), and volatility in many financial instrument markets. There are a number of mixed indicators and it is not yet clear whether a sustainable recovery is occurring or a renewed slow-down is taking place. 13 Table of Contents Over the past several years, many of our customers have experienced tighter credit, negative financial news and weaker financial performance of their businesses and have reduced their workforces, thereby reducing the number of licenses and the number of maintenance contracts they purchase from us. In addition, a number of our customers rely, directly and indirectly, on government spending. Current debt balances of many countries without proportionate increases in revenues have caused many countries to reduce spending and in some cases have forced those countries to restructure their debt in an effort to avoid defaulting under those obligations. This has not only impacted those countries but others that are holders of such debt and those assisting in such restructuring. These actions may impact, and over the past several years have negatively impacted, our business, financial results and financial condition. In addition, these factors are causing, and over the past several years have caused, us to restructure our business and in turn we have and will incur restructuring charges. Moreover, our financial performance may be negatively impacted by: •lack of credit available to and the insolvency of key channel partners, which may impair our distribution channels and cash flows; •counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury functions, including timely access to our cash reserves and third-party fulfillment of hedging transactions; •counterparty failures negatively affecting our insured risks; •inability of banks to honor our existing line of credit, which could increase our borrowing expenses or eliminate our ability to obtain short-term financing; and •decreased borrowing and spending by our end users on small and large projects in the industries we serve, thereby reducing demand for our products. Even if economic conditions in the U.S. and foreign markets improve generally, a slower economic recovery in industries important to our business, such as the architecture, engineering and construction, manufacturing and digital media and entertainment industries, may adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition.  If a macro-economic recovery does not occur as rapidly as anticipated, our ability to meet our long-term financial targets may also be adversely affected.The actions that we are taking to reorganize our business in alignment with our current operating strategy and in response to our related business slowdown may be costly and may not be as effective as anticipated.During the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, we undertook a number of important organizational changes to drive the success of our business. The reorganization included changes to the structure and alignment of our product development and marketing teams and re-organization of our sales teams. While these changes were intended to better serve our customers and drive future growth, we encountered challenges in the execution of these efforts which impacted our financial results in the short term.  In order to achieve these organizational changes and to further our strategy, including our continuing shift to cloud and mobile computing, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2013, we commenced a company-wide restructuring plan.  If we are unable to realize the outcomes from the restructuring efforts as planned, we may need to undertake additional restructuring efforts, and our business and operating results may be harmed.  In taking any future restructuring actions, we may incur additional costs that negatively impact our operating margins. Additionally, a prolonged and slow economic recovery or a renewed recession in U.S. or foreign markets could also lead to additional restructuring actions and associated costs.We have taken actions to reduce our cost structure to more closely align our costs with our revenue levels. In taking these actions, we have attempted to balance the cost of such initiatives against their longer term benefits. As a result of these actions, we have incurred and will incur additional costs in the short term that have the effect of reducing our operating margins. If we do not achieve the proper balance of these cost reduction initiatives, we may eliminate critical elements of our operations, the loss of which could negatively impact our ability to benefit from an economic recovery. We cannot assure that our cost cutting efforts will achieve appropriate levels of expenses, and we may take additional actions in the future.In addition, we are taking actions to stimulate demand for our products through a number of programs. Although we are attempting to balance the cost of these programs against their longer term benefits, it is possible that we will make such  14 Table of Contents investments without a corresponding increase in demand for our products. This would further reduce our operating margins and have a negative impact on our financial results.Existing and increased competition and rapidly evolving technological changes may reduce our revenue and profits. The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing devices with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The industry is presently undergoing a platform shift from the personal computer to cloud and mobile computing. This shift lowers barriers to entry and poses a disruptive challenge to established software companies. The markets in which we compete are characterized by vigorous competition, both by entry of competitors with innovative technologies and by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources. Furthermore, a reduction in the number and availability of compatible third-party applications, or our inability to rapidly adapt to technological and customer preference changes, including those related to cloud computing, mobile devices, and new computing platforms, may adversely affect the sale of our products. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in the industry are likely to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would likely harm our business. We believe that our future results largely depend upon our ability to offer products that compete favorably with respect to reliability, performance, ease of use, range of useful features, continuing product enhancements, reputation and price. Our financial results fluctuate within each quarter and from quarter to quarter making our future revenue and financial results difficult to predict. Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and will continue to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to change significantly or experience declines. In addition to the other factors described in this Part I,  and the following: •shortfalls in our expected financial results, including net revenue, earnings or key performance metrics;•uncertainty about certain governments' abilities to repay debt or effect fiscal policy; •changes in estimates of future results or recommendations by securities analysts; •the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; •quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations; •unusual events such as significant acquisitions, divestitures, regulatory actions and litigation; •changes in laws, rules or regulations applicable to our business; •general socio-economic, political or market conditions;•outstanding debt service obligations; and•other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance, such as instability affecting the economy or the operating performance of our competitors.Significant changes in the price of our common stock could expose us to additional costly and time-consuming litigation.  19 Table of Contents Historically, after periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, a company becomes more susceptible to securities class action litigation. This type of litigation is often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. Because we conduct a substantial portion of our business outside the U.S. and we make certain business and resource decisions based on assumptions about foreign currency, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and economic conditions change, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. We use derivative instruments to manage a portion of our cash flow exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As part of our risk management strategy, we use foreign currency contracts to manage a portion of our exposures of underlying assets, liabilities and other obligations, which exist as part of our ongoing business operations. These foreign currency instruments have maturities that extend for one to twelve months in the future, and provide us with some protection against currency exposures. However, our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be completely successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial results. The fluctuations of currencies in which we conduct business can both increase and decrease our overall revenue and expenses for any given fiscal period. Although our foreign currency cash flow hedge program extends beyond the current quarter in order to reduce our exposure to foreign currency volatility, we do not attempt to completely mitigate this risk, and in any case, will incur transaction fees in adopting such hedging programs. Such volatility, even when it increases our revenues or decreases our expenses, impacts our ability to accurately predict our future results and earnings. Our strategy to develop and introduce new products and services, including our increased emphasis on cloud and mobile computing strategies, exposes us to risks such as limited customer acceptance, costs related to product defects and large expenditures that may not result in additional net revenue. Rapid technological changes, as well as changes in customer requirements and preferences, characterize the software industry. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry 30 years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, mobile and social computing.  In response, we are focused on providing cloud-based services and delivery of our solutions on mobile devices and new hardware platforms to enable our customers to be more agile and collaborative on their projects. We are also developing consumer products for digital art, personal design and creativity, and home design. We devote significant resources to the development of new technologies, such as our cloud-based and mobile services, design and entertainment products, digital prototyping and collaboration products and consumer products. In addition, we frequently introduce new business models or methods that require a considerable investment of technical and financial resources such as an increase in our portfolio of, and focus on, suites. We are making such investments through our internal reorganization efforts and further development and enhancement of our existing products, as well as through acquisitions of new product lines. Such investments may not result in sufficient revenue generation to justify their costs. Market acceptance of these new technologies, business models or methods will be dependent on our ability to (1) include functionality and usability in such releases that address certain customer requirements with which our operating history is not extensive, and (2) to optimally price our products in light of marketplace conditions, our costs and customer demand.   Customer adoption of our cloud, mobile, and social computing services may not occur as rapidly as anticipated, or competitors may introduce new products and services that achieve acceptance among our current customers, adversely affecting our competitive position. In addition, our cloud, mobile, and social computing offerings price and deliver our products and services in a way that differs from our historical pricing and delivery methods.  In particular, a critical component of our growth strategy is to have customers of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products expand their portfolios to include our suites and cloud-based services. Over time, we aim to migrate customers using standalone Autodesk products to expand their portfolio with our suites and cloud-based offerings. Should sales of licenses of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT or standalone Autodesk flagship products decrease without a corresponding increase in suites product or cloud-based services revenue or without purchases of customer seats to our suites, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Also, adoption of our cloud and mobile computing offerings and changes in the delivery of our software and services to our customers may change the way in which we recognize revenue relating to our software and services, with a potential negative impact on our financial performance.  Additionally, the software products we offer are complex, and despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors or defects. These errors or defects could result in the need for corrective releases to our software products, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, an increase in product returns or lack of market acceptance of our products, any of which would likely harm our business.  20 Table of Contents Further, given the rapid speed of changing customer expectations and advancement of technology inherent in the software industry, the extensive and complex efforts required to create useful and widely accepted products and the rapid evolution of cloud computing, mobile devices, new computing platforms and other technologies, such as consumer products, our executive management team must act quickly, continuously and with vision. Although we have articulated a strategy that we believe will fulfill these challenges, if we fail to execute properly on that strategy, adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve or fail to internalize and execute on that strategy, we may fail to meet our customers' expectations, fail to compete with our competitors' products and technology and lose the confidence of our channel partners and employees. This in turn could adversely affect our business and financial performance. From time to time we realign or introduce new business and sales initiatives; if we fail to successfully execute and manage these initiatives, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. As part of our effort to accommodate our customers' needs and demands and the rapid evolution of technology, we from time to time evolve our business and sales initiatives such as realigning our development and marketing organizations, and expanding our portfolio of suites and our offering of software as a service, and realigning our internal resources in an effort to improve efficiency. Specifically, last year we undertook organizational changes in order to address major business initiatives, including our desire to accelerate our move to the cloud, transform our customers' experience, increase industry focus to meet customer demands, and develop more effective marketing. These reorganizational efforts included changes to the structure and alignment of our product development and marketing teams and re-organization of our sales teams by industry.  We may take such actions without clear indications that they will prove successful, and at times, we have been met with short-term challenges in the execution of such initiatives. Market acceptance of any new business or sales initiative is dependent on our ability to match our customers' needs at the right time and price. Often we have limited prior experience and operating history in these new areas of emphasis. If any of our assumptions about expenses, revenue or revenue recognition principles from these initiatives proves incorrect, or our attempts to improve efficiency are not successful, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, and our financial results will be negatively impacted. Because we derive a substantial portion of our net revenue from a small number of products, including our AutoCAD-based software products including suites, if these products are not successful, our revenue will be adversely affected. We derive a substantial portion of our net revenue from sales of licenses of a limited number of our products, including AutoCAD software, products based on AutoCAD, which includes our suites that serve specific markets, upgrades to those products and products that are interoperable with AutoCAD. Any factor adversely affecting sales of these products, including the product release cycle, market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition, economic and market conditions and the availability of third-party applications, would likely harm our financial results. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013, combined revenue from our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products, not including suites having AutoCAD or AutoCAD LT as a component, represented 33% of our total net revenue.  A breach of security in our products or computer systems may compromise the integrity of our products, harm our reputation, create additional liability and adversely impact our financial results. We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our product source code and computer systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. These threats include identity theft, unauthorized access, DNS attacks, wireless network attacks, viruses and worms, advanced persistent threat (APT), application centric attacks, peer-to-peer attacks, phishing, backdoor trojans and distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks.  Any of the foregoing could attack our products and computer systems. Despite significant efforts to create security barriers to such programs, it is virtually impossible for us to entirely eliminate this risk. Like all software products, our software is vulnerable to such cyber attacks. In the past, hackers have targeted our software, and they may do so in the future. The impact of cyber attacks could disrupt the proper functioning of our software products, cause errors in the output of our customers' work, allow unauthorized access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information of ours or our customers, and other destructive outcomes. Moreover, as we continue to invest in new lines of consumer products and services we are exposed to increased security risks and the potential for unauthorized access to, or improper use of, the information of our consumer users. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation may suffer, customers may stop buying our products, we could face lawsuits and potential liability, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted.We rely on third-parties to provide us with a number of operational services, including hosting and delivery, certain of our customer services and other operations; any interruption or delay in service from these third parties, breaches of security or  21 Table of Contents privacy, or failures in data collection could expose us to liability, harm our reputation and adversely impact our financial performance. We rely on hosted computer services from third parties for services that we provide our customers and computer operations for our internal use. As we gather customer data and host certain customer data in third-party facilities, a security breach could compromise the integrity or availability or result in the theft of customer data. In addition, our operations could be negatively affected in the event of a security breach, and we could be subject to the loss or theft of confidential or proprietary information, including source code. Unauthorized access to this data may be obtained through break-ins, breaches of our secure networks by unauthorized parties, employee theft or misuse, or other misconduct. We rely on a number of third party suppliers in the operation of our business for the provision of various services and materials that we use in the operation of our business and production of our products. Although we seek to diversify our third party suppliers, we may from time to time rely on a single or limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these services or materials. The inability of such third parties to satisfy our requirements could disrupt our business operations or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. If any of these situations were to occur, our reputation could be harmed, we could be subject to third party liability, including under data protection and privacy laws in certain jurisdictions, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted.  If we are not able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our business could be harmed. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secret protections, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Despite such efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties from time to time have copied aspects of our software products or have obtained and used information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our software products is time-consuming and costly. While we have recovered some revenue resulting from the unauthorized use of our software products, we are unable to measure the extent to which piracy of our software products exists and we expect that software piracy will remain a persistent problem. Furthermore, our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate. Additionally, we actively protect the secrecy of our confidential information and trade secrets, including our source code. If unauthorized disclosure of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. The loss of future trade secret protection could make it easier for third-parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our financial performance and our reputation. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of non-disclosure agreements with our customers, contractors, vendors and partners. However, it is possible that our confidential information and trade secrets may be disclosed or published without our authorization. If this were to occur, it may be difficult and/or costly for us to enforce our rights, and our financial performance and reputation could be negatively impacted. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. As more software patents are granted worldwide, the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps, we expect that software product developers will be increasingly subject to infringement claims. Infringement or misappropriation claims have in the past been, and may in the future be, asserted against us, and any such assertions could harm our business. Additionally, certain patent holders without products have become more aggressive in threatening and pursuing litigation in attempts to obtain fees for licensing the right to use patents. Any such claims or threats, whether with or without merit, have been and could in the future be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and diversion of resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, such royalty or license agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, which would likely harm our business. Our investment portfolio is composed of a variety of investment vehicles in a number of countries that are subject to interest rate trends, market volatility and other economic factors. If general economic conditions further decline, this could cause the credit ratings of our investments to deteriorate, illiquidity in the financial marketplace, and we may continue to experience a decline in interest income, and an inability to sell our investments, leading to impairment in the value of our investments. It is our policy to invest our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in highly liquid instruments with, and in the custody of, financial institutions with high credit ratings and to limit the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security and issuer. However, we are subject to general economic conditions, interest rate trends and volatility in the financial marketplace that can affect the income that we receive from our investments, the net realizable value of our investments  22 Table of Contents (including our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities) and our ability to sell them. In the U.S., for example, the yields on our portfolio securities are very low due to general economic conditions. Any one of these factors could reduce our investment income, or result in material charges, which in turn could impact our overall net income and earnings per share. From time to time we make direct investments in privately held companies. The privately held companies in which we invest are considered inherently risky. The technologies and products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize, which could result in a loss of all or a substantial part of our initial investment in these companies. The evaluation of privately held companies is based on information that we request from these companies, which is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. publicly traded companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and accuracy of the data received from these companies.If we were to experience a loss on any of our investments that loss may cause us to record an other-than-temporary impairment charge. The effect of this charge could impact our overall net income and earnings per share. In any of these scenarios, our liquidity may be negatively impacted, which in turn may prohibit us from making investments in our business, taking advantage of opportunities and potentially meeting our financial obligations as they come due. We are subject to legal proceedings and regulatory inquiries, and we may be named in additional legal proceedings or become involved in regulatory inquiries in the future, all of which are costly, distracting to our core business and could result in an unfavorable outcome, or a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or the trading price for our securities. We are involved in legal proceedings and receive inquiries from regulatory agencies. As the global economy has changed and our business has evolved, we have seen an increase in litigation activity and regulatory inquiries. Like many other high technology companies, the number and frequency of inquiries from U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies we have received regarding our business and our business practices, and the business practices of others in our industry, have increased in recent years. In the event that we are involved in significant disputes or are the subject of a formal action by a regulatory agency, we could be exposed to costly and time consuming legal proceedings that could result in any number of outcomes. Although outcomes of such actions vary, any claims or regulatory actions initiated by or against us, whether successful or not, could result in expensive costs of defense, costly damage awards, injunctive relief, increased costs of business, fines or orders to change certain business practices, significant dedication of management time, diversion of significant operational resources, or otherwise harm our business. In any of these cases, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Although we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. The report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Although we have determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of January 31, 2013, as indicated in our Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and such weakness remains uncorrected at fiscal year-end, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective at fiscal year-end. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective at fiscal year-end (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls or concludes that we have a material weakness in our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would likely have an adverse effect on our business and stock price.In preparing our financial statements we make certain assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements, which, if not accurate, may significantly impact our financial results. We make assumptions, judgments and estimates for a number of items, including the fair value of financial instruments, goodwill, long-lived assets and other intangible assets, the realizability of deferred tax assets and the fair value of stock awards.  23 Table of Contents We also make assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining the accruals for employee related liabilities including commissions, bonuses, and sabbaticals; and in determining the accruals for uncertain tax positions, partner incentive programs, product returns reserves, allowances for doubtful accounts, asset retirement obligations and legal contingencies. These assumptions, judgments and estimates are drawn from historical experience and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates, and such differences could significantly impact our financial results. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices, or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. For example, the U.S.-based Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) is currently working together with the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) on several projects to further align accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies who are required to follow U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) under SEC regulations and those who are required to follow IFRS outside of the U.S. These efforts by the FASB and IASB may result in different accounting principles under GAAP that may result in materially different financial results for us in areas including, but not limited to principles for recognizing revenue and lease accounting. In addition, the SEC has not yet made a determination regarding how or if IFRS will be incorporated into the financial reporting system for U.S. companies. A change in accounting principles from GAAP to IFRS may have a material impact on the way in which we report financial results. It is not clear if or when these potential changes in accounting principles may become effective, whether we have the proper systems and controls in place to accommodate such changes and the impact that any such changes may have on our  consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, as we evolve and change our business and sales models, we are currently unable to determine how these potential changes may impact our new models, particularly in the area of revenue recognition. Changes in laws and/or regulations related to the Internet or related to privacy and data security concerns or changes in the Internet infrastructure itself may cause our business to suffer. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting data privacy and the transmission of certain types of content using the Internet. For example, the State of California has adopted legislation requiring operators of commercial websites and mobile applications that collect personal information from California residents to conspicuously post and comply with privacy policies that satisfy certain requirements. Several other U.S. states have adopted legislation requiring companies to protect the security of personal information that they collect from consumers over the Internet, and more states may adopt similar legislation in the future. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission has used its authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act to bring actions against companies for failing to maintain adequate security for personal information collected from consumers over the Internet and for failing to comply with privacy-related representations made to Internet users. The U.S. Congress has at various times proposed federal legislation intended to protect the privacy of Internet users and the security of personal information collected from Internet users that would impose additional compliance burdens upon companies collecting personal information from Internet users, and the U.S. Congress may adopt such legislation in the future. The European Union also has adopted various directives regulating data privacy and security and the transmission of content using the Internet involving residents of the European Union, including those directives known as the Data Protection Directive, the E-Privacy Directive, and the Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive, and may adopt similar directives in the future. Several other countries, including Canada and several Latin American and Asian countries, have constitutional protections for, or have adopted legislation protecting, individuals' personal information. Additionally, some federal, state, or foreign governmental bodies have established laws which seek to censor the transmission of certain types of content over the Internet or require that individuals be provided with the ability to permanently delete all electronic personal information, such as the German Multimedia Law of 1997.  24 Table of Contents Given the variety of global privacy and data protection regimes, it is possible we may find ourselves subject to inconsistent obligations. For instance, the USA Patriot Act is considered by some to be in conflict with certain directives of the European Union. Situations such as these require that we make prospective determinations regarding compliance with conflicting regulations. Increased enforcement of existing laws and regulations, as well as any laws, regulations or changes that may be adopted or implemented in the future, could limit the growth of the use of public cloud applications or communications generally, result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based applications, and require implementation of additional technological safeguards. Our financial results could be negatively impacted if our tax positions are successfully challenged by tax authorities. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is based on our expected geographic mix of earnings, statutory rates, intercompany transfer pricing, and enacted tax rules. Significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. We believe our tax positions, including intercompany transfer pricing policies, are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. It is possible that these positions may be challenged by jurisdictional tax authorities and may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. Our success and ability to invest and grow depend largely on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, professional, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Historically, competition for these key personnel has been intense. The loss of services of any of our key personnel (including key personnel joining our company through acquisitions), the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions and financial goals. We rely on third party technologies and if we are unable to use or integrate these technologies, our product and service development may be delayed and our financial results negatively impacted. We rely on certain software that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, and the software may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors. The loss of licenses to, or inability to support, maintain and enhance any such software could result in increased costs, or in delays or reductions in product shipments until equivalent software can be developed, identified, licensed and integrated, which would likely harm our business. Disruptions with licensing relationships and third party developers could adversely impact our business. We license certain key technologies from third parties. Licenses may be restricted in the term or the use of such technology in ways that negatively affect our business. Similarly, we may not be able to obtain or renew license agreements for key technology on favorable terms, if at all, and any failure to do so could harm our business. Our business strategy has historically depended in part on our relationships with third-party developers who provide products that expand the functionality of our design software. Some developers may elect to support other products or may experience disruption in product development and delivery cycles or financial pressure during periods of economic downturn. In particular markets, such disruptions have in the past, and would likely in the future, negatively impact these third-party developers and end users, which could harm our business. Additionally, technology created by outsourced product development, whether outsourced to third parties or developed externally and transferred to us through business or technology acquisitions, have certain additional risks such as effective integration into existing products, adequate transfer of technology know-how and ownership and protection of transferred intellectual property. As a result of our strategy of partnering with other companies for product development, our product delivery schedules could be adversely affected if we experience difficulties with our product development partners. We partner with certain independent firms and contractors to perform some of our product development activities. We believe our partnering strategy allows us to, among other things, achieve efficiencies in developing new products and  25 Table of Contents maintaining and enhancing existing product offerings. Our partnering strategy creates a dependency on such independent developers. Independent developers, including those who currently develop products for us in the U.S. and throughout the world, may not be able or willing to provide development support to us in the future. In addition, use of development resources through consulting relationships, particularly in non-U.S. jurisdictions with developing legal systems, may be adversely impacted by, and expose us to risks relating to, evolving employment, export and intellectual property laws. These risks could, among other things, expose our intellectual property to misappropriation and result in disruptions to product delivery schedules.  We regularly invest resources to update and improve our internal information technology systems. Should our investments not succeed, or if delays or other issues with new or existing internal technology systems disrupt our operations, our business could be harmed. We rely on our network and data center infrastructure, internal technology systems and our websites for our development, marketing, operational, support, sales, accounting and financial reporting activities. We are continually investing resources to update and improve these systems and environments in order to meet the growing requirements of our business and customers. Such improvements are often complex, costly and time consuming. In addition, such improvements can be challenging to integrate with our existing technology systems, or uncover problems with our existing technology systems. Unsuccessful implementation of hardware or software updates and improvements could result in disruption in our business operations, loss of revenue, errors in our accounting and financial reporting or damage to our reputation. Our business may be significantly disrupted upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event. Our business is highly automated and relies extensively on the availability of our network and data center infrastructure, our internal technology systems and our websites. We also rely on hosted computer services from third parties for services that we provide to our customers and computer operations for our internal use. The failure of our systems or hosted computer services due to a catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami, weather event, telecommunications failure, power failure, cyber attack or war, could adversely impact our business, financial results and financial condition. We have developed disaster recovery plans and maintain backup systems in order to reduce the potential impact of a catastrophic event, however there can be no assurance that these plans and systems would enable us to return to normal business operations. In addition, any such event could negatively impact a country or region in which we sell our products. This could in turn decrease that country's or region's demand for our products, thereby negatively impacting our financial results. We issued $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes in a debt offering in December 2013 and have an existing $400.0 million revolving credit facility, and may incur other debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. In December 2012, we issued 1.95% notes due December 15, 2017 in an aggregate principal amount of $400.0 million and 3.6% notes due December 15, 2022 in an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million. As the December 2017 and December 2022 debt matures, we will have to expend significant resources to either repay or refinance these notes. If we decide to refinance the notes, we may be required to do so on different or less favorable terms or we may be unable to refinance the notes at all, both of which may adversely affect our financial condition.  We also have a $400.0 million revolving credit facility.  As of January 31, 2013 we had no outstanding borrowings on the line of credit. Although we have no current plans to borrow under this credit facility, we may use the proceeds of any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, or for future acquisitions or expansion of our business. Our existing and future levels of indebtedness may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results by, among other things:•increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;•requiring the dedication of a greater than expected portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry.We are required to comply with the covenants set forth in our senior unsecured notes and revolving credit facility. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the noteholders or lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable.  In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact  26 Table of Contents the value and liquidity of our securities. Under certain circumstances, if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility could increase. Downgrades in our credit ratings could also restrict our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and could affect the terms of any such financing. ITEM 1B