, “Risk Factors.”MARKETING AND SALESWe license or sell our products and services globally, primarily through indirect channels consisting of distributors and resellers. To a lesser extent we also transact directly with a select set of customers who are primarily large corporations. Our indirect channel model includes both a two-tiered distribution structure, where distributors sell to resellers, and a one-tiered structure, where Autodesk sells directly to resellers. We have a network of approximately 2,000 resellers and distributors worldwide. For fiscal 2016, approximately 79% of our revenue was derived from indirect channel sales through distributors and resellers, and we expect that the majority of our revenue will continue to be derived from indirect channel sales in the future. We anticipate that our channel mix will change to support our new business model and are proactively working with our channel partners to ensure a smooth transition. We employ a variety of incentive programs and promotions to align our reseller channel with our business strategies. Sales through our largest distributor, Tech Data Corporation and its affiliates, accounted for 25%, 25%, and 24% of our net revenue for fiscal years 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. We believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data. Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between us and Tech Data be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. No other distributor, reseller, or direct customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue.Our customer-related operations are divided into three geographic regions, the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (“EMEA”), and Asia Pacific (“APAC”). Each geographic region is supported by global marketing and sales organizations. These organizations develop and manage overall marketing and sales programs and work closely with a network of domestic and international sales offices. Fiscal 2016 net revenue in the Americas, EMEA, and APAC was $972.8 million (39%), $934.6 million (37%), and $596.7 million (24%), respectively. We intend to continue to make our products available in foreign languages. We believe that international sales will continue to comprise the majority of our total net revenue. Adverse economic conditions and currency exchange rates in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including emerging economies, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. A summary of our financial information by geographic location is found in Note 13, “Segments,” in the Notes to Consolidated 2016 Form 10-K  9Table of Contents Financial Statements. Our international operations and sales subject us to a variety of risks; see , “Risk Factors,” for further discussion.CUSTOMER AND RESELLER SUPPORTWe provide technical support and training to customers through a multi-tiered support model, augmented by direct programs designed to address certain specific customer needs. Most of our customers receive support and training from the resellers and distributors from which they purchased subscriptions or licenses for our products or services, with Autodesk in turn providing second tier support to the resellers and distributors. Other customers are supported directly via self-service using the Autodesk Knowledge Network which guides customers to answers in our online support assets, support forums, webinars or to support representatives using a number of different modalities such as social media, phone, email and webchat. We also support our resellers and distributors through technical product training, sales training classes, webinars and other knowledge sharing programs. EDUCATION, SUSTAINABILITY, AND PHILANTHROPIC PROGRAMSEducationAutodesk is committed to helping fuel a lifelong passion for design in students of all ages. We offer free educational licenses of Autodesk software worldwide to students, educators, and educational institutions. In fiscal 2016, we initiated Project Ignite, a free and open learning platform delivering a unique package of technology, learning content, and services created specifically for the classroom. The Project Ignite learning platform additionally offers classroom bundles, which include hardware such as 3D printers and electronics kits along with professional development and training services to help educators.  Through Autodesk Design Academy, we provide secondary and postsecondary school markets hundreds of standards-aligned class projects to support design-based disciplines in Science, Technology, Engineering, Digital Arts, and Math (STEAM) while using Autodesk's professional-grade 3D design, engineering and entertainment software used in industry. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, we also made Autodesk Design Academy curricula available on iTunes U. Our intention is to make Autodesk software ubiquitous and the design software of choice for those poised to become the next generation of professional users.Sustainability ProgramsTo help our customers imagine, design, and create a better world, our Sustainability Programs focus our efforts where we can have the greatest impact: providing sustainability solutions, delivering sustainable design learning and training opportunities, expanding access to technology, and leading by example with our sustainable business practices. This benefits our customers, who use our products and services to improve design decisions to have long-term positive social and environmental impacts. Through the Autodesk Foundation, the Autodesk Technology Impact Program, and the Autodesk Entrepreneur Program, we’re helping nonprofits and entrepreneurs design high-impact solutions to social and environmental challenges by providing them with funding, training, and easy access to our professional software suites at either no charge or for a small license fee. 2016 Form 10-K  10Table of Contents Climate ChangeAutodesk recognizes inherent opportunities related to climate change, which have potential to expand our business. Opportunities driven by changes in regulation, changes in building code, physical climate parameters and other climate-related developments can directly and indirectly create more demand for existing and new Autodesk products and services in the short and long-term. Opportunities relating to Autodesk’s leadership on climate action can further improve our reputation in the marketplace.Climate Change Management ActionsTo drive continued progress and meet growing demand, we continue to expand the solutions, education, and support we offer, helping customers secure a competitive advantage for a low carbon future by designing high-performance buildings, resilient cities and infrastructure, and more efficient transportation and products. To continue to grow this market, we provide software and support to early stage entrepreneurs and start-up companies who are designing clean technologies. We plan to expand these offerings in the future based upon demand and opportunity in response to challenges posed by climate change.Internally, we are investing in best practices to mitigate our greenhouse gas emissions and climate change risk through investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency, disaster management and recovery strategies, and materials innovation. We are on track to meet our science-based greenhouse gas reduction target of 43% absolute emissions by 2020.Climate Change GovernanceUltimately, our CEO, Carl Bass, has the highest level of direct responsibility for addressing our climate-change related risks and opportunities. Autodesk has established an Environmental Core Team which reports indirectly to Mr. Bass. The Environmental Core Team has direct responsibility for setting and implementing the corporate sustainability strategy, including the climate change strategy. Emissions Performance & Other Key Performance IndicatorsAutodesk has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions for its operational boundary by 27% from our fiscal year 2009 baseline to 76,700 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. This reduction was accomplished through increased investment in renewable energy, LEED certification and energy efficiency in our global real estate portfolio, and continued transition from physical software delivery to cloud and electronic software delivery. More information about our sustainability commitment can be found in our annual sustainability reports, which we have published on our website since 2008.PhilanthropyThe Autodesk Foundation (the "Foundation"), a privately funded 501(c)(3) charity organization established and solely funded by us, leads our philanthropic efforts. The purpose of the Foundation is twofold: to support employees to create a better world at work, at home, and in the community by matching employee’s volunteer time and/or donations to nonprofit organizations; and to support organizations and individuals using design to drive positive social and environmental impact. In the latter case, we use grant funding, software donations, and training to accomplish this goal, selecting the most impactful and innovative organizations around the world, thus, leading to a better future for our planet. On our behalf, the Foundation also administers a discounted software donation program to nonprofit organizations, social and environmental entrepreneurs, and others who are developing design solutions that will shape a more sustainable future. DEVELOPER PROGRAMSOne of our key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture design of our software products to facilitate third-party development of complementary products and industry-specific software solutions. This approach enables customers and third parties to customize solutions for a wide variety of highly specific uses. We offer several programs that provide strategic investment funding, technological platforms, user communities, technical support, forums, and events to developers who develop add-on applications for our products. For example, we have established the Autodesk Spark program to support ideas that push the boundaries of 3D printing and nurture the companies that will advance innovations within 3D printing hardware and software. We have also created the Autodesk Forge program to support innovators that build solutions to facilitate the development of a single connected ecosystem for the future of how things are designed, made, and used. Through our programs, over 4,100 developers in the Autodesk Developer Network create interoperable products that further enhance the range of integrated solutions available to our customers.2016 Form 10-K  11Table of Contents COMPETITIONThe markets for our products are highly competitive and subject to rapid change. We strive to increase our competitive separation by investing in research and development, allowing us to bring new products to market and create exciting new versions of existing products that offer compelling efficiencies for our customers. We also compete through investments in marketing and sales to more effectively reach new customers and better serve existing customers.Our competitors include large, global, publicly traded companies; small, geographically focused firms; startup firms; and solutions produced in-house by their users. Our primary global competitors in the PSEB, AEC, and MFG segments include Adobe Systems Incorporated, ANSYS, Inc., AVEVA Group plc, Bentley Systems, Incorporated, Dassault Systèmes S.A. and its subsidiary Dassault Systèmes SolidWorks Corp., Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI), Intergraph Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hexagon AB, MSC Software Corporation, Nemetschek AG, PTC, 3D Systems, Siemens PLM, and Trimble Navigation Limited.Our M&E segment also competes with a wide range of different companies from large, global, publicly-traded companies to small private entities. Large organizations that produce products that compete in some or all of our markets include Adobe Systems Incorporated, Apple Inc., Avid Technology, Inc., SONY Corporation, and Technicolor, among others. The media and entertainment market is highly fragmented with complex interdependencies between many of the larger businesses. As a result, some of our competitors also own subsidiaries that are our customers or our partners in developing or bringing to market some of our solutions. In addition to traditional competitors in developed economies, we encounter new competitors in emerging economies.The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing power with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The industry is presently undergoing a platform shift from the personal computer to cloud and mobile computing. This shift further lowers barriers to entry and poses a disruptive challenge to established software companies. The design software market is characterized by vigorous competition in each of the vertical markets in which we compete, both from existing competitors and by entry of new competitors with innovative technologies. Competition is increasingly enhanced by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies and the possibility that competitors in one vertical segment may enter other vertical segments that we serve. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, and other resources than we do. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in these industries are likely to continue to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins, and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. See , “Risk Factors,” for further discussion of risks related to protecting our intellectual property.PRODUCTION AND SUPPLIERSThe production of our AEC, MFG, PSEB, and certain M&E software products and services involves duplication or hosting of software media. As we progress through our business model transition, the way that we deliver software has evolved. For certain cloud-based products, we use a combination of co-located hosting facilities as well as infrastructure-as-a-service providers like Amazon Web Services. For other products, we offer customers an electronic software download option for both initial product fulfillment as well as product updates for maintenance subscribers. Customers who choose electronic fulfillment receive the latest version of the software from our vendor’s secure servers. Customers may also obtain our software through media such as DVDs and USB flash drives available from multiple sources. The purchase of media and the transfer of the software programs onto media for distribution to customers are performed by us and by licensed subcontractors. Packaging materials are produced to our specifications by outside sources. Production is performed in leased facilities operated by independent third-party contractors. To date, we have not experienced any material difficulties or delays in the production of our software and documentation.EMPLOYEESAs of January 31, 2016, we employed approximately 9,500 people. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union. In certain foreign countries, our employees are represented by work councils. We have never experienced any work stoppages and believe our employee relations are good. Reliance upon employees in other countries entails various risks and changes in these foreign countries, such as government instability or regulation unfavorable to foreign-owned businesses, which could negatively impact our business in the future. In February 2016, we announced a restructuring plan that will result in the termination of approximately 10% of the Company’s workforce, or approximately 925 employees, in fiscal 2017. Through the restructuring, we seek to reduce expenses, streamline the organization, and reallocate resources to align more closely with the Company’s needs going forward.2016 Form 10-K  13Table of Contents ACQUISITIONSOver the past three years, we acquired new technology or supplemented our technology by purchasing businesses or technology related assets focused in specific markets or industries. For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, we acquired a number of companies and technology related assets, some of which were accounted for as business combinations. The following were key acquisitions for fiscal years 2016, 2015, and 2014:Date of closing  Company  DetailsNovember 2015 netfabb GmbH ("netfabb") The acquisition of netfabb GmbH (“netfabb”) provides Autodesk with software solutions that reduce production costs and increase efficiency in 3D printing and additive manufacturing. netfabb was integrated, and the related goodwill has been assigned to, Autodesk's PSEB reportable segment.June 2014 Shotgun Software Inc. ("Shotgun") The acquisition of Shotgun provides a cloud-based production management solution that enables digital studios to track, schedule, review, and collaborate on projects and images. Shotgun was integrated, and the related goodwill has been assigned to, Autodesk's M&E reportable segment.May 2014 Within Technologies Limited ("Within”) The acquisition of Within will accelerate Autodesk’s development of tools and technologies for advanced manufacturing, including 3D printing. Within was integrated into, and the related goodwill has been assigned to, Autodesk’s PSEB reportable segment.  February 2014 Delcam plc (“Delcam”)  The acquisition of Delcam provides Autodesk a range of design, manufacturing and inspection software that enables automated CADCAM solutions for a variety of industries, ranging from aerospace to toys and sports equipment. Delcam was integrated into, and the related goodwill has been assigned to, Autodesk's MFG reportable segment.November 2013 Graitec SA (“Graitec”) The acquisition of Graitec (including Graitec’s Advance Steel and Advance Concrete product lines, and associated employees) enhanced Autodesk’s offerings for structural engineering and expanded our portfolio of technology for BIM for structural fabrication and detailing. Graitec was integrated into Autodesk’s AEC segment.BACKLOGWe typically ship products shortly after receipt of an order, which is common in the software industry. Our backlog consists of current software license product orders which have not yet shipped. The category of current software license product orders which we have not yet shipped consists of orders from customers with approved credit status for currently available software products.Backlog was $31.4 million at January 31, 2016 compared to $40.4 million at January 31, 2015. The actual amount of backlog at any particular time may not be a meaningful indicator of future business prospects as this amount is impacted by a number of factors not related to future trends or events such as the order fulfillment process, the method of software delivery or the linearity of our business within the fiscal period. GLOSSARY OF TERMSARR (Annualized Recurring Revenue)—Represents the annualized value of our average monthly recurring revenue for the preceding three months. The “maintenance” captures ARR relating to traditional maintenance attached to perpetual licenses, including Delcam. The “new model” captures ARR relating to desktop, cloud services, enterprise, and Shotgun product offerings. Recurring revenue acquired with the acquisition of a business may cause variability in the comparison of this calculation.ARPS (Annualized Revenue Per Subscription)—Is calculated by dividing our annualized recurring revenue by total subscriptions. Billings—Amounts billed to customers during the current fiscal period net of any partner incentives, hedge gains or other discounts. BIM (Building Information Modeling)—BIM describes a model-based technology linked with a database of project information, and is the process of generating and managing information throughout the life cycle of a building. BIM is used as a digital representation of the building process to facilitate exchange and interoperability of information in digital formats.2016 Form 10-K  14Table of Contents Constant currency growth rates—We attempt to represent the changes in the underlying business operations by eliminating fluctuations caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as eliminating hedge gains or losses recorded within the current and comparative periods. Our constant currency methodology removes all hedging gains and losses from the calculation.Flagship—Autodesk flagship products are our core design products. Flagship includes the following products: 3ds Max, AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, AutoCAD vertical products (such as AutoCAD Architecture and Mechanical), Civil 3D, Inventor products (individual), Map 3D, Maya, and Revit products (individual). License and Other revenue—License and other revenue consists of two components: product license revenue and other revenue. Product license revenue includes software license revenue from the sale of seat licenses, term-based licenses from our desktop subscription and enterprise offerings, and product revenue for Creative Finishing. Other revenue includes revenue from consulting, training, Autodesk Developers Network and Creative Finishing customer support, and is recognized over time, as the services are performed.Maintenance—Our maintenance program provides our customers with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue over the term of the agreements, generally between one and three years. New and Adjacent—Autodesk new and adjacent products include Autodesk's new product offerings as well as products that are not included in flagship or suites. New and adjacent includes the following services and products: Autodesk Alias Design products, Autodesk 360 products, Autodesk Consulting, Autodesk Simulation, Autodesk Simulation Multiphysics, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk CF Design, Autodesk Constructware, Autodesk Consumer products, Autodesk Creative Finishing products, Delcam products, Autodesk Moldflow products, Autodesk Navisworks, Autodesk Scaleform, Autodesk Vault products, and all other products.Product Innovation Platform—Represents a single connected ecosystem advancing the way products are designed, made, and used. The Autodesk Product Innovation Platform enables companies to take advantage of the rapid changes taking place in manufacturing.Recurring Revenue—Represents the revenue for the period from our maintenance, desktop, cloud services and enterprise license offerings, including portions of revenue allocated to license & other revenue for those offerings. It excludes revenue from Autodesk Consulting Services, and subscription revenue related to education offerings, consumer product offerings, select Creative Finishing product offerings, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk Constructware, and third party products. Recurring revenue acquired with the acquisition of a business is captured and may cause variability in the comparison of this calculation. Suites—Autodesk design suites are a combination of products that target a specific user objective (product design, building design, etc.) and support a set of workflows for that objective. Our current design and creation suites include: AutoCAD Design Suite, Autodesk Building Design Suite, Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, Autodesk Factory Design Suite, Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suite, Autodesk Plant Design Suite, and Autodesk Product Design Suite. Subscription revenue—Autodesk subscription revenue consists of three components: (1) maintenance revenue from our software products; (2) maintenance revenue from our term-based desktop subscription and enterprise offerings; and (3) revenue from our cloud service offerings.Total Subscriptions—Consists of subscriptions from our maintenance, desktop, cloud service and enterprise license offerings that are active and paid as of the quarter end date. For certain cloud-based and enterprise license offerings, subscriptions represent the monthly average activity reported within the last three months of the quarter end date. Total subscriptions do not include data from education offerings, consumer product offerings, select Creative Finishing product offerings, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk Constructware, and third party products. Subscriptions acquired with the acquisition of a business are captured once the data conforms to our subscription count methodology and when added, may cause variability in the comparison of this calculation. New model subscriptions consist of desktop, cloud service and enterprise license offerings, and subscriptions from Autodesk Shotgun product offerings. Maintenance subscriptions consist of maintenance subscriptions and subscriptions from Autodesk Delcam product offerings.2016 Form 10-K  15Table of Contents ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves significant risks, a number of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following discussion highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on our business, financial condition, and future results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely impacted, causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may impact the “forward-looking” statements described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in “forward-looking” statements. Global economic and political conditions may further impact our business, financial results and financial condition.As our business has expanded globally, we have increasingly become subject to risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and political conditions. The past several years were characterized by weak global economic conditions, volatile credit markets, volatile exchange rates, relatively high unemployment, increased government deficit spending and debt levels, uncertainty about certain governments' abilities to repay such debt or to address certain fiscal issues, and volatility in many financial instrument markets. If economic growth in countries where we do business slows, such as in Japan or in emerging economies, or if such countries experience further economic recessions, customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, longer sales cycles and slower adoption of our technologies.Over the past several years, many of our customers have experienced tighter credit, negative financial news and weaker financial performance of their businesses and have reduced their workforces, thereby reducing the number of licenses and the number of maintenance contracts they purchase from us. In addition, a number of our customers rely, directly and indirectly, on government spending. Current debt balances of many countries without proportionate increases in revenues have caused many countries to reduce spending and in some cases have forced those countries to restructure their debt in an effort to avoid defaulting under those obligations. This has not only impacted those countries but others that are holders of such debt and those assisting in such restructuring.These actions may impact, and over the past several years have negatively impacted, our business, financial results and financial condition. Moreover, our financial performance may be negatively impacted by:•lack of credit available to and the insolvency of key channel partners, which may impair our distribution channels and cash flows;•counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury functions, including timely access to our cash reserves and third-party fulfillment of hedging transactions;•counterparty failures negatively affecting our insured risks;•inability of banks to honor our existing line of credit, which could increase our borrowing expenses or eliminate our ability to obtain short-term financing; and•decreased borrowing and spending by our end users on small and large projects in the industries we serve, thereby reducing demand for our products.Uncertainty about current and future economic and political conditions on us, our customers and partners, makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments.Further macro-economic degradation, a slower economic recovery in industries important to our business or adverse exchange rate movements, may adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition.If we fail to successfully manage our business model transition to cloud-based products and more flexible product licenses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.To address the industry transition from personal computer to cloud, mobile, and social computing, we have accelerated our move to the cloud and are offering more flexible product licenses. To support our transition, we discontinued licensing upgrades effective March 6, 2015, discontinued selling new perpetual licenses of most individual software products effective February 1, 2016, and plan to discontinue selling new perpetual licenses of suites effective 2016 Form 10-K  16Table of Contents August 1, 2016. As a result, we expect to derive an increasing portion of our revenues in the future from subscriptions. This subscription model prices and delivers our products in a way that differs from the historical perpetual pricing and delivery methods. These changes reflect a significant shift from perpetual license sales and distribution of our software in favor of providing our customers the right to access certain of our software in a hosted environment or use downloaded software for a specified subscription period. During our transition, revenue, billings, gross margin, operating margin, net income (loss), earnings (loss) per share, deferred revenue, and cash flow from operations will be impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front and as new offerings bring a wider variety of price points.Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is subject to risks and uncertainties. The new offerings require a considerable investment of technical, financial, legal, and sales resources, and a scalable organization. Market acceptance of such offerings is affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: security, reliability, performance, current license terms, customer preference, social/community engagement, customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, public concerns regarding privacy and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations. Whether our business model transition will prove successful and will accomplish our business and financial objectives is subject to numerous uncertainties, including but not limited to: customer demand, attach and renewal rates, channel acceptance, our ability to further develop and scale infrastructure, our ability to include functionality and usability in such offerings that address customer requirements, tax and accounting implications, pricing, and our costs. In addition, the metrics we use to gauge the status of our business model transition may evolve over the course of the transition as significant trends emerge. If we are unable to successfully establish these new offerings and navigate our business model transition in light of the foregoing risks and uncertainties, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.Our strategy to develop and introduce new products and services exposes us to risks such as limited customer acceptance, costs related to product defects, and large expenditures, each of which may not result in additional net revenue or could result in decreased net revenue.Rapid technological changes, as well as changes in customer requirements and preferences, characterize the software industry. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry 30 years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, mobile, and social computing. Customers are also reconsidering the manner in which they license software products, which requires us to constantly evaluate our business model and strategy. In response, we are focused on providing solutions to enable our customers to be more agile and collaborative on their projects. We are also developing consumer products for digital art, personal design and creativity, and home design. We devote significant resources to the development of new technologies. In addition, we frequently introduce new business models or methods that require a considerable investment of technical and financial resources such as our introduction of flexible license and service offerings. It is uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful or whether we will be able to develop the necessary infrastructure and business models more quickly than our competitors. We are making such investments through further development and enhancement of our existing products and services, as well as through acquisitions of new product lines. Such investments may not result in sufficient revenue generation to justify their costs and could result in decreased net revenue. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, either with respect to our software or hardware products or the manner in which we provide such products, or if we are not able to adapt our business model to meet our customers' requirements, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted.In particular, a critical component of our growth strategy is to have customers of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products expand their portfolios to include our other offerings and cloud-based services. We want customers using individual Autodesk products to expand their portfolio with our other offerings and cloud-based services, and we are taking steps to accelerate this migration. At times, sales of licenses of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT or individual Autodesk flagship products have decreased without a corresponding increase in suites product or cloud-based services revenue or without purchases of customer seats to our suites. Should this continue, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Also, adoption of our cloud and mobile computing offerings and changes in the delivery of our software and services to our customers, such as desktop subscription (formally referred to as rental) offerings, will change the way in which we recognize revenue relating to our software and services, with a potential negative impact on our financial performance. The accounting impact of these offerings and other business decisions are expected to result in an increase in the percentage of our ratable revenue, as well as recurring revenue, making for a more predictable business over time, while potentially reducing our upfront perpetual revenue stream.Our executive management team must act quickly, continuously, and with vision, given the rapidly changing customer expectations and technology advancements inherent in the software industry, the extensive and complex efforts required to create useful and widely accepted products and the rapid evolution of cloud computing, mobile devices, new computing platforms, and other technologies, such as consumer products. Although we have articulated a strategy that we 2016 Form 10-K  17Table of Contents believe will fulfill these challenges, if we fail to execute properly on that strategy or adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve, we may fail to meet our customers' expectations, fail to compete with our competitors' products and technology, and lose the confidence of our channel partners and employees. This in turn could adversely affect our business and financial performance.Our entry into 3D printing presents many of the risks described above concerning developing and introducing new products as well as new risks for us. The manufacturing and 3D printing markets are highly competitive and some of our competitors have superior experience and resources to us. We have limited experience designing, developing, and selling hardware products and no experience developing and selling printers. The market for 3D printing is nascent and may not develop as rapidly as we expect. Our sale of 3D printers could subject us to product and other liability that we do not currently face. If any of these risks materialize, it could adversely affect our business and financial performance as well as our reputation and brand.Revenue from our offerings may be difficult to predict during our business model transition.The discontinuance of our perpetual licenses for most individual software products on February 1, 2016 and for perpetual suites on August 1, 2016 will result in the loss of future up-front licensing revenue. This also will freeze growth of our maintenance subscription revenue because there will be no further opportunities to attach maintenance licensing once we cease the sale of suites licenses. We expect our maintenance subscription revenue to decline over time, but it may decline more quickly than anticipated due to low maintenance renewals. At the same time, our new model subscription revenue may not grow as rapidly as anticipated. Our new model subscription pricing allows customers to use our offerings at a lower initial cost when compared to the sale of a perpetual license. Although our new model subscriptions are designed to increase the number of customers who purchase offerings and create a recurring revenue stream that is more predictable over time, it creates risks related to the timing of revenue recognition and expected reductions in cash flows in the near term.We may not be able to predict subscription renewal rates and their impact on our future revenue and operating results. Our customers are not obligated to renew their subscriptions for our offerings, and they may elect not to renew. We cannot assure renewal rates, or the mix of subscriptions renewals. Customer renewal rates may decline or fluctuate due to a number of factors, including offering pricing, competitive offerings, customer satisfaction, and reductions in customer spending levels or customer activity due economic downturns or financial markets uncertainty. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may decline.Actions that we are taking to restructure our business in alignment with our business model transition strategy may be costly and may not be as effective as anticipated.During the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we commenced a company-wide restructuring plan to accelerate the Company’s move to the cloud and its transition to a subscription-based business model. Through the restructuring, we seek to reduce expenses, streamline the organization, and reallocate resources to align more closely with the Company’s needs going forward. As a result of these actions, we have incurred and will incur additional costs in the short term that have the effect of reducing our operating margins. If we are unable to realize the expected outcomes from the restructuring efforts, our business and operating results may be harmed.Our software is highly complex and may contain undetected errors, defects or vulnerabilities, each of which could harm our business and financial performance.The software products that we offer are complex, and despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors, defects or vulnerabilities. Some errors, defects and vulnerabilities in our software products may only be discovered after the product or service has been released. Any errors, defects or vulnerabilities could result in the need for corrective releases to our software products, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, an increase in product returns or lack of market acceptance of our products, any of which would likely harm our business and financial performance.2016 Form 10-K  18Table of Contents We are dependent on international revenue and operations, exposing us to significant regulatory, global economic, intellectual property, collections, currency exchange rate, taxation, political instability and other risks, which could adversely impact our financial results.We are dependent on our international operations for a significant portion of our revenue. International net revenue represented 68% and 71% of our net revenue in fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our international revenue, including that from emerging economies, is subject to general economic and political conditions in foreign markets, including conditions in foreign markets resulting from economic and political conditions in the U.S. Our revenue is also impacted by the relative geographical and country mix of our revenue over time. At times, these factors adversely impact our international revenue, and consequently our business as a whole. Our dependency on international revenue makes us much more exposed to global economic and political trends, which can negatively impact our financial results, even if our results in the U.S. are strong for a particular period. Further, a significant portion of our earnings from our international operations may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to remittance restrictions, adverse tax consequences or other factors. Our intent is that amounts related to foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside the U.S. will remain outside the U.S., and we will meet our U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings (such as our 2012 and 2015 Notes), or both. However, if, in the future, amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are needed to fund our operations in the U.S., or to service our external borrowings, the repatriation of such amounts to the U.S. could result in a significant incremental tax liability in the period in which the decision to repatriate occurs and payment of any such tax liability would reduce the cash available to fund our operations.We anticipate that our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenue, and, as we expand our international development, sales and marketing expertise, will provide significant support to our overall efforts in countries outside of the U.S. Risks inherent in our international operations include:•economic volatility;•fluctuating currency exchange rates, including risks related to any hedging activities we undertake;•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and practices;•delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology;•different purchase patterns as compared to the developed world;•tariffs, quotas, and other trade barriers and restrictions;•operating in locations with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices, particularly in emerging economies;•increasing enforcement by the U.S. under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, adoption of stricter anti-corruption laws in certain countries, including the United Kingdom;•difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and development operations;•local competition;•longer collection cycles for accounts receivable;•potential changes in tax laws, including possible U.S. and foreign tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how multinational companies are taxed;•tax arrangements with foreign governments, including our ability to meet and renew the terms of those tax arrangements;•laws regarding the management of and access to data and public networks;•possible future limitations upon foreign owned businesses;•increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;2016 Form 10-K  19Table of Contents •inadequate local infrastructure;•greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property;•software piracy; and•other factors beyond our control, including popular uprisings, terrorism, war, natural disasters, and diseases.Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks.Existing and increased competition and rapidly evolving technological changes may reduce our revenue and profits.The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing devices with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The industry is presently undergoing a platform shift from the personal computer to cloud and mobile computing. This shift further lowers barriers to entry and poses a disruptive challenge to established software companies. The markets in which we compete are characterized by vigorous competition, both by entry of competitors with innovative technologies and by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, and other resources. Furthermore, a reduction in the number and availability of compatible third-party applications, or our inability to rapidly adapt to technological and customer preference changes, including those related to cloud computing, mobile devices, and new computing platforms, may adversely affect the sale of our products. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in the industry are likely to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would likely harm our business.We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows.Because we conduct a substantial portion of our business outside the U.S. and we make certain business and resource decisions based on assumptions about foreign currency, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and economic conditions change, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows.We use derivative instruments to manage a portion of our cash flow exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As part of our risk management strategy, we use foreign currency contracts to manage a portion of our exposures of underlying assets, liabilities, and other obligations, which exist as part of our ongoing business operations. These foreign currency instruments have maturities that extend for one to twelve months in the future, and provide us with some protection against currency exposures. However, our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be completely successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial results.The fluctuations of currencies in which we conduct business can both increase and decrease our overall revenue and expenses for any given fiscal period. Although our foreign currency cash flow hedge program extends beyond the current quarter in order to reduce our exposure to foreign currency volatility, we do not attempt to completely mitigate this risk, and in any case, will incur transaction fees in adopting such hedging programs. Such volatility, even when it increases our revenues or decreases our expenses, impacts our ability to accurately predict our future results and earnings.A breach of security in our products, services or computer systems may compromise the integrity of our products or services, harm our reputation, create additional liability and adversely impact our financial results.We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our source code and computer systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. These threats include but are not limited to identity theft, unauthorized access, DNS attacks, wireless network attacks, viruses and worms, advanced persistent threat (APT), application centric attacks, peer-to-peer attacks, phishing, backdoor trojans and distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. Any of the foregoing could attack our products, services or computer systems. Despite significant efforts to create 2016 Form 10-K  20Table of Contents security barriers to such programs, it is virtually impossible for us to entirely eliminate this risk. Like all software, our software is vulnerable to cyber attacks. In the past, hackers have targeted our software, and they may do so in the future. The impact of cyber attacks could disrupt the proper functioning of our software products or services, cause errors in the output of our customers' work, allow unauthorized access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information of ours or our customers, and other destructive outcomes. Moreover, as we continue to invest in new lines of consumer products and services we are exposed to increased security risks and the potential for unauthorized access to, or improper use of, the information of our consumer users. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation may suffer, customers may stop buying our products or services, we could face lawsuits and potential liability, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted.Changes in laws or regulations related to the Internet, local data storage or related to privacy and data security concerns may impact our business or expose us to increased liability.The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication, and business applications. Federal, state, or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting data privacy and the transmission of certain types of content using the Internet. For example, the State of California has adopted legislation requiring operators of commercial websites and mobile applications that collect personal information from California residents to conspicuously post and comply with privacy policies that satisfy certain requirements. Several other U.S. states have adopted legislation requiring companies to protect the security of personal information that they collect from consumers over the Internet, and more states may adopt similar legislation in the future. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission has used its authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act to bring actions against companies for failing to maintain adequate security for personal information collected from consumers over the Internet and for failing to comply with privacy-related representations made to Internet users. The U.S. Congress has at various times proposed federal legislation intended to protect the privacy of Internet users and the security of personal information collected from Internet users that would impose additional compliance burdens upon companies collecting personal information from Internet users, and the U.S. Congress may adopt such legislation in the future. The European Union also has adopted various directives regulating data privacy and security and the transmission of content using the Internet involving residents of the European Union, including those directives known as the Data Protection Directive, the E-Privacy Directive, and the Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive, and may adopt similar directives in the future. Other countries, including Canada and several Latin American and Asian countries, have constitutional protections for, or have adopted legislation protecting, individuals' personal information. Additionally, some federal, state, or foreign governmental bodies have established laws that seek to censor the transmission of certain types of content over the Internet or require that individuals be provided with the ability to permanently delete all electronic personal information, such as the German Multimedia Law of 1997 and the California “Eraser law” for minors. Additionally, some foreign governmental bodies (such as Russia and China) have established laws or have proposed laws that seek to require local data storage.In addition, new laws and industry self-regulatory codes have been enacted and more are being considered that may affect our ability to reach current and prospective customers, to understand how our products and services are being used, to respond to customer requests allowed under the laws, and to implement our new business models effectively. These new laws and regulations would similarly affect our competitors as well as our customers.Given the variety of global privacy and data protection regimes, it is possible we may find ourselves subject to inconsistent obligations. For instance, the USA Patriot Act is considered by some to be in conflict with certain directives of the European Union. Situations such as these require that we make prospective determinations regarding compliance with conflicting regulations. Increased enforcement of existing laws and regulations, as well as any laws, regulations or changes that may be adopted or implemented in the future, could limit the growth of the use of public cloud applications or communications generally, result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based applications, and require us to implement of additional technological safeguards.In addition, in October 2015 the European Court of Justice issued a ruling immediately invalidating the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework, which facilitated personal data transfers to the U.S. in compliance with applicable EU data protection laws. In February of 2016, The European Commission and the United States agreed on a new framework for transatlantic data flows: the EU-US Privacy Shield. Autodesk is currently awaiting additional guidance from European regulators on how the EU-US Privacy Shield will be implemented. We continue to comply with the previous Safe Harbor principles and rely on other legal mechanisms for data transfers. 2016 Form 10-K  21Table of Contents Increasing regulatory focus on privacy issues could impact our new business models and expose us to increased liability.Governments, privacy advocates and class action attorneys are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, use, store, share or transmit personal data. Any perception of our practices or products as an invasion of privacy, whether or not consistent with current regulations and industry practices, may subject us to public criticism, class action lawsuits, reputational harm or claims by regulators, industry groups or other third parties, all of which could disrupt our business and expose us to increased liability.We rely on third-parties to provide us with a number of operational services, including hosting and delivery and certain of our customer services and other operations and processing of data; any interruption or delay in service from these third parties, breaches of security or privacy could expose us to liability, harm our reputation and adversely impact our financial performance.We rely on hosted computer services from third parties for services that we provide our customers and computer operations for our internal use. As we gather customer data and host certain customer data in third-party facilities, a security breach could compromise the integrity or availability or result in the theft of customer data. In addition, our operations could be negatively affected in the event of a security breach, and we could be subject to the loss or theft of confidential or proprietary information, including source code.Unauthorized access to this data may be obtained through break-ins, breaches of our secure networks by unauthorized parties, employee theft or misuse, or other misconduct. We rely on a number of third party suppliers in the operation of our business for the provision of various services and materials that we use in the operation of our business and production of our products. We may from time to time rely on a single or limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these services or materials. The inability of such third parties to satisfy our requirements could disrupt our business operations or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. If any of these situations were to occur, our reputation could be harmed, we could be subject to third party liability, including under data protection and privacy laws in certain jurisdictions, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted.If we do not maintain good relationships with the members of our distribution channel, or achieve anticipated levels of sell-through, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. If our distribution channel suffers financial losses, becomes financially unstable or insolvent, or is not provided the right mix of incentives to sell our products, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected.We sell our software products both directly to end-users and through a network of distributors and resellers. For fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, approximately 79% and 83% of our revenue was derived from indirect channel sales through distributors and resellers and we expect that the majority of our revenue will continue to be derived from indirect channel sales in the future. Our ability to effectively distribute our products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our distributor and reseller network. Computer software distributors and resellers typically are not highly capitalized, have previously experienced difficulties during times of economic contraction and experienced difficulties during the past several years. We have processes to ensure that we assess the creditworthiness of distributors and resellers prior to our sales to them. In the past we have taken steps to support them, and may take additional steps in the future, such as extending credit terms and providing temporary discounts. These steps, if taken, could harm our financial results. If our distributors and resellers were to become insolvent, they would not be able to maintain their business and sales, or provide customer support services, which would negatively impact our business and revenue.We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including the distributor Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (“Tech Data”). Tech Data accounted for 25% of our total net revenue for both fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively. Although we believe that we are not substantially dependent on Tech Data, if Tech Data were to experience a significant disruption with its business or if our relationship with Tech Data were to significantly deteriorate, it is possible that our ability to sell to end users would be, at least temporarily, negatively impacted. This could in turn negatively impact our financial results.Over time, we have modified and will continue to modify aspects of our relationship with our distributors and resellers, such as their incentive programs, pricing to them and our distribution model to motivate and reward them for aligning their businesses with our strategy and business objectives. Changes in these relationships and underlying programs could negatively impact their business and harm our business. In addition, the loss of or a significant reduction in business with those distributors or resellers or the failure to achieve anticipated levels of sell-through with any one of our major international distributors or large resellers could harm our business. In particular, if one or more of such 2016 Form 10-K  22Table of Contents distributors or resellers were unable to meet their obligations with respect to accounts payable to us, we could be forced to write off such accounts and may be required to delay the recognition of revenue on future sales to these customers. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.A significant portion of our revenue is generated through maintenance revenue; decreases in maintenance renewal rates would negatively impact our future revenue and financial results.Our maintenance customers have no obligation to attach maintenance to their initial license or renew their maintenance contract after the expiration of their initial maintenance period, which is typically one year. The discontinuance of our perpetual licenses for most individual software products on February 1, 2016 and for perpetual suites on August 1, 2016 will result in the loss of future maintenance attach opportunities and freeze maintenance growth. Once we discontinue new perpetual suites we expect customers' renewal rates will decline or fluctuate over time as a result of a number of factors, including the overall global economy, the health of their businesses, and the perceived value of the maintenance program. If our customers do not renew their maintenance contract for our products, our maintenance revenue will decline and our financial results will suffer.We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance contracts, which is predominantly one year, but may also range up to five years. Decreases in maintenance billings will negatively impact future maintenance revenue, however future maintenance revenue will also be impacted by other factors such as the amount, timing and mix of contract terms of future billings.Our financial results fluctuate within each quarter and from quarter to quarter making our future revenue and financial results difficult to predict.Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and will continue to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to change significantly or experience declines. We also provide investors with quarterly and annual financial forward-looking guidance that could prove to be inaccurate as a result of these fluctuations. In addition to the other factors described in this Part I,  and the following:•shortfalls in our expected financial results, including net revenue, billings, earnings, subscriptions, or other key performance metrics;•results and future projections related to our business model transition, including the impact of the end of upgrades and perpetual licenses;•quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations;•general socio-economic, political or market conditions;•changes in estimates of future results or recommendations or confusion on the part of analysts and investors about the short-term and long-term impact to our business resulting from our business model transition;•uncertainty about certain governments' abilities to repay debt or effect fiscal policy;•the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;•unusual events such as significant acquisitions, divestitures, regulatory actions, and litigation;•changes in laws, rules, or regulations applicable to our business;•outstanding debt service obligations; and•other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance, such as instability affecting the economy or the operating performance of our competitors.2016 Form 10-K  27Table of Contents Significant changes in the price of our common stock could expose us to costly and time-consuming litigation. Historically, after periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, a company becomes more susceptible to securities class action litigation. This type of litigation is often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources.Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel.Our success and ability to invest and grow depend largely on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, professional, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Historically, competition for these key personnel has been intense. The loss of services of any of our key personnel (including key personnel joining our company through acquisitions), the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions and financial goals.Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of investment vehicles in a number of countries that are subject to interest rate trends, market volatility, and other economic factors. If general economic conditions decline, this could cause the credit ratings of our investments to deteriorate, illiquidity in the financial marketplace, and we may experience a decline in interest income, and an inability to sell our investments, leading to impairment in the value of our investments.It is our policy to invest our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in highly liquid instruments with, and in the custody of, financial institutions with high credit ratings and to limit the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security and issuer. However, we are subject to general economic conditions, interest rate trends and volatility in the financial marketplace that can affect the income that we receive from our investments, the net realizable value of our investments (including our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities) and our ability to sell them. In the U.S., for example, the yields on our portfolio securities are very low due to general economic conditions. Any one of these factors could reduce our investment income, or result in material charges, which in turn could impact our overall net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share.From time to time we make direct investments in privately held companies. Privately held company investments are considered inherently risky. The technologies and products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize, which could result in a loss of all or a substantial part of our initial investment in these companies. The evaluation of privately held companies is based on information that we request from these companies, which is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. publicly traded companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and accuracy of the data received from these companies.A loss on any of our investments may cause us to record an other-than-temporary impairment charge. The effect of this charge could impact our overall net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share. In any of these scenarios, our liquidity may be negatively impacted, which in turn may prohibit us from making investments in our business, taking advantage of opportunities and potentially meeting our financial obligations as they come due.We are subject to legal proceedings and regulatory inquiries, and we may be named in additional legal proceedings or become involved in regulatory inquiries in the future, all of which are costly, distracting to our core business and could result in an unfavorable outcome, or a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or the trading prices for our securities.We are involved in legal proceedings and receive inquiries from regulatory agencies. As the global economy has changed and our business has evolved, we have seen an increase in litigation activity and regulatory inquiries. Like many other high technology companies, the number and frequency of inquiries from U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies we have received regarding our business and our business practices, and the business practices of others in our industry, have increased in recent years. In the event that we are involved in significant disputes or are the subject of a formal action by a regulatory agency, we could be exposed to costly and time consuming legal proceedings that could result in any number of outcomes. Any claims or regulatory actions initiated by or against us, whether successful or not, could result in expensive costs of defense, costly damage awards, injunctive relief, increased costs of business, fines or orders to change certain business practices, significant dedication of management time, diversion of significant operational resources, or otherwise harm our business. In any of these cases, our financial results, results of operations, cash flows or the trading prices for our securities could be negatively impacted.2016 Form 10-K  28Table of Contents Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices, or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our results of operations.Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective.For example, the U.S.-based Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) is currently working together with the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) on several projects to further align accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies who are required to follow U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) under SEC regulations and those who are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") outside of the U.S. These efforts by the FASB and IASB may result in different accounting principles under GAAP that may result in materially different financial results for us in areas including, but not limited to principles for recognizing revenue and lease accounting.It is not clear if or when these potential changes in accounting principles may become effective, whether we have the proper systems and controls in place to accommodate such changes and the impact that any such changes may have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, as we evolve and change our business and sales models, we are currently unable to determine how these potential changes may impact our new models, particularly in the area of revenue recognition.We are investing in resources to update and improve our information technology systems. Should our investments not succeed, or if delays or other issues with new or existing internal technology systems disrupt our operations, our business model transition could be compromised and our business could be harmed.We rely on our network and data center infrastructure, technology systems and our websites for our development, marketing, operational, support, sales, accounting and financial reporting activities. We continually invest resources to update and improve these systems and environments in order to meet the growing and evolving requirements of our business and customers. In particular, our transition to cloud-based products and a subscription only business model requires considerable investment in the development of technologies, and back office systems for technical, financial, compliance and sales resources to enable a scalable organization.Such improvements are often complex, costly and time consuming. In addition, such improvements can be challenging to integrate with our existing technology systems, or uncover problems with our existing technology systems. Unsuccessful implementation of hardware or software updates and improvements could result in disruption in our business operations, loss of revenue, errors in our accounting and financial reporting or damage to our reputation and compromise our business model transition.In preparing our financial statements we make certain assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements, which, if not accurate, may significantly impact our financial results. We make assumptions, judgments and estimates for a number of items, including the fair value of financial instruments, goodwill, long-lived assets and other intangible assets, the realizability of deferred tax assets and the fair value of stock awards. We also make assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining the accruals for employee related liabilities including commissions, bonuses, and sabbaticals; and in determining the accruals for uncertain tax positions, partner incentive programs, product returns reserves, allowances for doubtful accounts, asset retirement obligations and legal contingencies. These assumptions, judgments and estimates are drawn from historical experience and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates, and such differences could significantly impact our financial results.Our financial results could be negatively impacted if our tax positions are overturned by tax authorities.We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is primarily based on our expected geographic mix of earnings, statutory rates, intercompany transfer pricing, and enacted tax rules. Significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. We believe our tax positions, including intercompany transfer pricing policies, are 2016 Form 10-K  29Table of Contents consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. It is possible that these positions may be overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities and may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate.We rely on third party technologies and if we are unable to use or integrate these technologies, our product and service development may be delayed and our financial results negatively impacted.We rely on certain software that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, and the software may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors. The loss of licenses to, or inability to support, maintain and enhance any such software could result in increased costs, or in delays or reductions in product shipments until equivalent software can be developed, identified, licensed and integrated, which would likely harm our business.Disruptions with licensing relationships and third party developers could adversely impact our business.We license certain key technologies from third parties. Licenses may be restricted in the term or the use of such technology in ways that negatively affect our business. Similarly, we may not be able to obtain or renew license agreements for key technology on favorable terms, if at all, and any failure to do so could harm our business.Our business strategy has historically depended in part on our relationships with third-party developers who provide products that expand the functionality of our design software. Some developers may elect to support other products or may experience disruption in product development and delivery cycles or financial pressure during periods of economic downturn. In particular markets, such disruptions have in the past, and would likely in the future, negatively impact these third-party developers and end users, which could harm our business.Additionally, technology created by outsourced product development, whether outsourced to third parties or developed externally and transferred to us through business or technology acquisitions, have certain additional risks such as effective integration into existing products, adequate transfer of technology know-how and ownership and protection of transferred intellectual property.As a result of our strategy of partnering with other companies for product development, our product delivery schedules could be adversely affected if we experience difficulties with our product development partners.We partner with certain independent firms and contractors to perform some of our product development activities. We believe our partnering strategy allows us to, among other things, achieve efficiencies in developing new products and maintaining and enhancing existing product offerings. Our partnering strategy creates a dependency on such independent developers. Independent developers, including those who currently develop products for us in the U.S. and throughout the world, may not be able or willing to provide development support to us in the future. In addition, use of development resources through consulting relationships, particularly in non-U.S. jurisdictions with developing legal systems, may be adversely impacted by, and expose us to risks relating to, evolving employment, export and intellectual property laws. These risks could, among other things, expose our intellectual property to misappropriation and result in disruptions to product delivery schedules.Our business may be significantly disrupted upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event.Our business is highly automated and relies extensively on the availability of our network and data center infrastructure, our internal technology systems and our websites. We also rely on hosted computer services from third parties for services that we provide to our customers and computer operations for our internal use. The failure of our systems or hosted computer services due to a catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami, weather event, telecommunications failure, power failure, cyber attack or war, could adversely impact our business, financial results and financial condition. We have developed disaster recovery plans and maintain backup systems in order to reduce the potential impact of a catastrophic event, however there can be no assurance that these plans and systems would enable us to return to normal business operations. In addition, any such event could negatively impact a country or region in which we sell our products. This could in turn decrease that country's or region's demand for our products, thereby negatively impacting our financial results.2016 Form 10-K  30Table of Contents If we were required to record an impairment charge related to the value of our long-lived assets, or an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, our results of operations would be adversely affected.Our long-lived assets are tested for impairment if indicators of impairment exist. If impairment testing shows that the carrying value of our long-lived assets exceeds their estimated fair values, we would be required to record a non-cash impairment charge, which would decrease the carrying value of our long-lived assets, as the case may be, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. Our deferred tax assets include net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards that can be used to offset taxable income and reduce income taxes payable in future periods. Each quarter, we assess the need for a valuation allowance, considering both positive and negative evidence to determine whether all or a portion of the deferred tax assets are not more likely than not to be realized and determined during our second quarter of fiscal 2016 that our U.S. deferred tax assets were no longer more likely than not to be realized. Changes in the amount of the valuation allowance could result in a material noncash expense or benefit in the period in which the valuation allowance is adjusted and our results of operations could be materially affected. We will continue to perform these tests and any future adjustments may have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes in debt offerings and have an existing $400.0 million revolving credit facility, and expect to incur other debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results.In December 2012, we issued 1.95% notes due December 15, 2017 in an aggregate principal amount of $400.0 million and 3.6% notes due December 15, 2022 in an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million. In June 2015, we issued 3.125% notes due June 15, 2020 in an aggregate principal amount of $450.0 million and 4.375% notes due June 15, 2025 in an aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million. As the debt matures, we will have to expend significant resources to either repay or refinance these notes. If we decide to refinance the notes, we may be required to do so on different or less favorable terms or we may be unable to refinance the notes at all, both of which may adversely affect our financial condition.We also have a $400.0 million revolving credit facility. As of January 31, 2016, we had no outstanding borrowings on the line of credit. Although we have no current plans to borrow under this credit facility, we may use the proceeds of any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, or for future acquisitions or expansion of our business. Our existing and future levels of indebtedness may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results by, among other things:•increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;•requiring the dedication of a greater than expected portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry.We are required to comply with the covenants set forth in our unsecured notes and revolving credit facility. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the note holders or lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our securities. Under certain circumstances, if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility could increase. Downgrades in our credit ratings could also restrict our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and could affect the terms of any such financing.ITEM 1B