Item 1A, Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters, Note 10 – Callaway Energy Center, and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.14Table of ContentsOPERATING STATISTICSThe following tables present key electric and natural gas operating statistics for Ameren for the past three years:Electric Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31,2015 2014 2013Electric Sales – kilowatthours (in millions):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential12,903 13,649 13,562Commercial14,574 14,649 14,634Industrial8,273 8,600 8,709Off-system7,380 6,170 6,128Other126 124 125Ameren Missouri total43,256 43,192 43,158Ameren Illinois:     Residential     Power supply and delivery service4,797 4,662 5,474Delivery service only6,757 7,222 6,310Commercial     Power supply and delivery service2,837 2,535 2,606Delivery service only9,443 9,643 9,541Industrial     Power supply and delivery service1,589 1,674 1,613Delivery service only10,274 10,576 10,861Other524 518 522Ameren Illinois total36,221 36,830 36,927Eliminate affiliate sales(385) (67) (82)Ameren total79,092 79,955 80,003Electric Operating Revenues (in millions):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential$1,464 $1,417 $1,428Commercial1,258 1,203 1,216Industrial469 475 491Off-system195 173 183Other84 120 61Ameren Missouri total$3,470 $3,388 $3,379Ameren Illinois:     Residential     Power supply and delivery service$495 $468 $501Delivery service only363 308 282Commercial     Power supply and delivery service247 233 215Delivery service only227 185 184Industrial     Power supply and delivery service71 87 68Delivery service only53 42 44Other227 199 167Ameren Illinois total$1,683 $1,522 $1,461ATXI:     Transmission services$70 $33 $19Other and intercompany eliminations(43) (30) (27)Ameren total$5,180 $4,913 $4,83215Table of ContentsElectric Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31,2015 2014 2013Electric Generation – Ameren Missouri – kilowatthours (in millions)42,424 43,474 43,213Price per ton of delivered coal (average) – Ameren Missouri$37.88 $37.36 $36.19Source of Ameren Missouri energy supply:     Coal67.1% 73.5% 74.1%Nuclear23.3 20.6 18.6Hydroelectric3.6 2.2 2.9Natural gas0.3 0.2 0.4Methane gas and solar0.2 0.1 0.1Purchased – Wind0.7 0.8 0.7Purchased – Other4.8 2.6 3.2 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%Gas Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31,2015 2014 2013Natural Gas Sales – dekatherms (in millions):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential7 8 8Commercial3 4 4Industrial1 1 1Transport7 7 6Ameren Missouri total18 20 19Ameren Illinois:     Residential55 66 62Commercial18 23 21Industrial3 3 6Transport89 91 87Ameren Illinois total165 183 176Ameren total183 203 195Natural Gas Operating Revenues (in millions):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential$84 $102 $102Commercial34 40 42Industrial5 7 8Transport and other14 15 9Ameren Missouri total$137 $164 $161Ameren Illinois:     Residential$550 $675 $611Commercial163 208 185Industrial13 23 26Transport and other57 70 25Ameren Illinois total$783 $976 $847Other and intercompany eliminations(2) — (2)Ameren total$918 $1,140 $1,00616Table of ContentsAVAILABLE INFORMATIONThe Ameren Companies make available free of charge through Ameren’s website (www.ameren.com) their annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents, and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably possible after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also available through an Internet website maintained by the SEC (www.sec.gov). Ameren also uses its website as a channel of distribution for material information about the Ameren Companies. Financial and other material information regarding the Ameren Companies is routinely posted to and accessible at Ameren’s website.The Ameren Companies also make available free of charge through Ameren’s website the charters of Ameren’s board of directors’ audit and risk committee, human resources committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, finance committee, and nuclear oversight and environmental committee; the corporate governance guidelines; a policy regarding communications to the board of directors; a policy and procedures with respect to related-person transactions; a code of ethics for principal executive and senior financial officers; a code of business conduct applicable to all directors, officers and employees; and a director nomination policy that applies to the Ameren Companies. The information on Ameren’s website, or any other website referenced in this report, is not incorporated by reference into this report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSInvestors should review carefully the following material risk factors and the other information contained in this report. The risks that the Ameren Companies face are not limited to those in this section. There may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may adversely affect the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of the Ameren Companies. REGULATORY AND LEGISLATIVE RISKSWe are subject to extensive regulation of our businesses, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local regulation. This extensive regulatory framework, some of which is more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other matters, the electric and natural gas utility industries; rate and cost structure of utilities; operation of nuclear energy centers; construction and operation of generation, transmission, and distribution facilities; acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities; transmission reliability; and wholesale and retail competition. In the planning and management of our operations, we must address the effects of existing and proposed laws and regulations and potential changes in the regulatory framework, including  initiatives by federal and state legislatures, RTOs, utility regulators, and taxing authorities. Significant changes in the nature of the regulation of our businesses could require changes to our business planning and management of our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Failure to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals in a timely manner; failure to obtain necessary licenses or permits from regulatory authorities; the impact of new or modified laws, regulations, standards, interpretations, or other legal requirements; or increased compliance costs could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The electric and natural gas rates that we are allowed to charge are determined through regulatory proceedings, which are subject to intervention and appeal, and are also subject to legislative actions, which are largely outside of our control. Any events that prevent us from recovering our costs or from earning adequate returns on our investments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The rates that we are allowed to charge for our utility services significantly influence our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. The electric and natural gas utility industries are extensively regulated. The utility rates charged to our customers are determined by governmental entities, including the MoPSC, the ICC, and the FERC. Many factors influence decisions by these entities, including the cost of providing service, the prudency of expenditures, the quality of service, regulatory staff knowledge and experience, customer intervention, and economic conditions as well as social and political views. Decisions made by these governmental entities regarding rates are largely outside of our control. We are exposed to regulatory lag to varying degrees by jurisdiction, which, if unmitigated, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Rate orders are also subject to appeal, which creates additional uncertainty as to the rates that we will ultimately be allowed to charge for our services. From time to time, our regulators will approve trackers, riders, or other mechanisms that allow electric or natural gas rates to be adjusted without a traditional rate proceeding. These mechanisms are not permanent and could be changed or terminated.Ameren Missouri's electric and natural gas utility rates and Ameren Illinois' natural gas utility rates are typically established in regulatory proceedings that take up to 11 months to complete. Ameren Missouri's rates established in those proceedings are primarily based on historical costs and revenues. Ameren Illinois' natural gas rates established in those proceedings may be based on historical or estimated future costs and revenues. Thus the rates that a utility is allowed to charge may not match its costs at any given time. Rates include an allowed rate of return on investments established by the regulator. Although rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the regulator will 17Table of Contentsdetermine that our costs were prudently incurred or that the regulatory process will result in rates that will produce full recovery of such costs or provide for an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on those investments.In years when capital investments and operations costs rise or customer usage declines below those levels reflected in rates, we may not be able to earn the allowed return established by the regulator. This could result in the deferral or cancellation of planned capital investments, which could reduce the rate base investments on which we earn a rate of return. Additionally, increasing rates could result in regulatory or legislative actions, as well as competitive or political pressures, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.As a result of its participation in the performance-based formula ratemaking process established pursuant to the IEIMA, Ameren Illinois’ return on equity for its electric distribution business is directly correlated to yields on United States Treasury bonds. Additionally, Ameren Illinois is required to achieve certain performance standards and capital spending levels. Failure to meet these requirements could adversely affect Ameren's and Ameren Illinois' results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Ameren Illinois is participating in the performance-based formula ratemaking process established pursuant to the IEIMA for its electric distribution business. The ICC annually reviews Ameren Illinois’ rate filings under the IEIMA for reasonableness and prudency. If the ICC were to conclude that Ameren Illinois’ incurred costs were not prudently incurred, the ICC would disallow recovery of such costs.The return on equity component of the formula rate is equal to the average for the calendar year of the monthly yields of 30-year United States Treasury bonds plus 580 basis points. Therefore, Ameren Illinois’ annual return on equity under the formula ratemaking process for its electric distribution business is directly correlated to the yields on such bonds, which are outside of Ameren Illinois’ control. A 50 basis point change in the average monthly yields of the 30-year United States Treasury bonds would result in an estimated $6 million change in Ameren's and Ameren Illinois' net income based on its 2016 projected rate base.Ameren Illinois is also subject to performance standards. Failure to achieve the standards would result in a reduction in the company’s allowed return on equity calculated under the formula. The IEIMA provides for return on equity penalties totaling 34 basis points in each year from 2016 through 2018 and 38 basis points in each year from 2019 through 2022 if the performance standards are not met.Between 2012 and 2021, Ameren Illinois is required to invest $625 million in capital projects incremental to its average electric delivery capital projects investments of $228 million for calendar years 2008 through 2010, in order to modernize its distribution system.  Unless extended through 2022, the IEIMA performance-based formula ratemaking process will expire in 2019. When it expires, Ameren Illinois will be required to establish future rates through a traditional rate proceeding with the ICC, which might not result in rates that produce a full or timely recovery of costs or provide for an adequate return on investments. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. Significant capital expenditures are required to achieve and to maintain compliance with these laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in facility closures, alterations to the manner in which these facilities operate, increased operating costs, or exposure to fines and liabilities, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations enforced by federal, state, and local authorities. From the beginning phases of siting and development to the operation of electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas storage, transmission and distribution facilities, our activities involve compliance with diverse environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations address emissions; discharges to water; water usage; impacts to air, land, and water; and chemical and waste handling. Complex and lengthy processes are required to obtain and renew approvals, permits, or licenses for new, existing, or modified facilities. Additionally, the use and handling of various chemicals or hazardous materials require release prevention plans and emergency response procedures.We are also subject to liability under environmental laws that address the remediation of environmental contamination of property currently or formerly owned by us or by our predecessors, as well as property contaminated by hazardous substances that we generated. Such properties include MGP sites and third-party sites, such as landfills. Additionally, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us. They could allege injury from exposure to hazardous materials, seek to compel remediation of environmental contamination, or seek to recover damages resulting from that contamination.The EPA has promulgated several environmental regulations that will have a significant impact on the electric utility industry. Over time, compliance with these regulations could be costly for certain companies, including Ameren Missouri, that operate coal-fired power plants. Significant new rules include the regulation of CO2 emissions from existing power plants through the Clean Power Plan and from new power plants through the revised NSPS; the CSAPR, which requires further reductions of SO2 emissions and NOx emissions from power plants; a regulation governing management and storage of CCR; the MATS, which require reduction of emissions of mercury, toxic metals, and acid gases from power plants; revised NSPS for particulate matter, SO2, and NOx emissions from new sources; new effluent standards applicable to wastewater discharges from power plants; and new regulations under the Clean Water Act 18Table of Contentsthat could require significant capital expenditures, such as modifications to water intake structures or new cooling towers at Ameren Missouri’s energy centers. The EPA also periodically reviews and revises national ambient air quality standards, including those standards associated with emissions from power plants such as particulate matter, ozone, SO2 and NOx. Certain of these new regulations are being or are likely to be challenged through litigation, so their ultimate implementation, as well as the timing of any such implementation, is uncertain. Although many details of future regulations are unknown, individually or the combined effects of new environmental regulations could result in significant capital expenditures and increased operating costs for Ameren and Ameren Missouri. Ameren is also subject to risks from changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations. The EPA is engaged in an enforcement initiative to determine whether coal-fired power plants failed to comply with the requirements of the NSR and NSPS provisions under the Clean Air Act when the power plants implemented modifications. In January 2011, the Department of Justice, on behalf of the EPA, filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri alleging that Ameren Missouri violated provisions of the Clean Air Act and Missouri law. An outcome in this matter adverse to Ameren Missouri could require substantial capital expenditures, which cannot be determined at this time. Such expenditures could also affect unit retirement and replacement decisions.The Clean Power Plan, which sets forth CO2 emissions standards applicable to existing power plants, was issued by the EPA but stayed by the United States Supreme Court pending the outcome of various appeals, as discussed below. If the Clean Power Plan is ultimately upheld as issued, Ameren Missouri expects to incur increased fuel and operating costs, and make new or accelerated capital expenditures, in addition to the costs of making modifications to existing operations in order to achieve compliance. The Clean Power Plan required Missouri and Illinois to reduce CO2 emissions from power plants within their states significantly below 2005 levels by 2030. The rule contains interim compliance periods commencing in 2022 that require each state to demonstrate progress in achieving its CO2 reduction target. Ameren is evaluating the Clean Power Plan's potential impacts to its operations, including those related to electric system reliability, and its level of investment in customer energy efficiency programs, renewable energy, and other forms of generation investment. Significant uncertainty exists regarding the impact of the Clean Power Plan, as its implementation will depend upon plans to be developed by the states. Numerous legal challenges are pending which could result in the rule being declared invalid or the nature and timing of CO2 emissions reductions being revised. In February 2016, the United States Supreme Court stayed the Clean Power Plan and all implementation requirements until such time as legal appeals are concluded. Appeals are not expected to conclude prior to 2018. We cannot predict the outcome of the legal challenges or their impact on our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. If the rule is ultimately upheld and implemented in substantially similar form to the rule when issued, compliance measures could result in the closure or alteration of the operation of some of Ameren  Missouri’s coal and natural-gas-fired energy centers, which could result in increased operating costs. Ameren and Ameren Missouri have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation. New or revised environmental regulations, enforcement initiatives, or legislation could result in a significant increase in capital expenditures and operating costs, decreased revenues, increased financing requirements, penalties or fines, or reduced operations of some of Ameren Missouri's coal-fired energy centers, which, in turn, could lead to increased liquidity needs and higher financing costs. Actions required to ensure that our facilities and operations are in compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be prohibitively expensive if the costs are not fully recovered through rates. Environmental laws could require Ameren Missouri to close or to alter significantly the operation of its energy centers. Moreover, if Ameren Missouri requests recovery of these capital expenditures and costs through rates, the MoPSC could deny recovery of all or a portion of these costs, prevent timely recovery, or make changes to the regulatory framework in an effort to minimize rate volatility and customer rate increases. Capital expenditures and costs to comply with future legislation or regulations that are not recoverable through rates might result in Ameren Missouri closing coal-fired energy centers earlier than planned, which would lead to an impairment of assets and reduced revenues. We are unable to predict the ultimate impact of these matters on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.We may not be able to fully utilize net operating loss, tax credit, or charitable contribution carryforwards, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.We have significantly reduced our consolidated federal and state income tax obligations in the past through tax planning strategies. Additionally, our consolidated income tax obligations have been reduced due to the continued use of bonus depreciation provisions that allow for an acceleration of deductions for tax purposes and recent IRS guidance on tax deductions for repairs. We estimate our ability to use tax benefits, including those in the form of net operating loss, tax credit and charitable contribution carryforwards, that are recorded as deferred tax assets on our balance sheets. A disallowance of these tax benefits resulting from a legislative change or adverse determination by one of the applicable taxing jurisdictions could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Additionally, changes in corporate income tax rate or policy changes as well as any inability to generate enough taxable income in the future to use all of our tax benefits before they expire could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Customers’, legislators’, and regulators’ opinions of us are affected by many factors, including system reliability, implementation of our investment plans, protection of customer information, rates, and media coverage. To the extent that customers, legislators, or regulators have or 19Table of Contentsdevelop a negative opinion of us, our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity could be adversely affected.Service interruptions due to failures of equipment or facilities as a result of severe or destructive weather or other causes, and the ability of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois to promptly respond to such failures, can affect customer satisfaction. In addition to system reliability issues, the success of modernization efforts, such as those being undertaken for Ameren Illinois’ electric and natural gas delivery systems, our ability to safeguard sensitive customer information, and other actions can affect customer satisfaction. The timing and magnitude of rate increases and volatility of rates can also affect customer satisfaction. Customers', legislators', and regulators' opinions of us can also be affected by media coverage, including the proliferation of social media, which may include information, whether factual or not, that damages our brand and reputation.If customers, legislators, or regulators have or develop a negative opinion of us and our utility services, this could result in increased regulatory oversight and could affect the returns on common equity we are allowed to earn. Additionally, negative opinions about us could make it more difficult for our utilities to achieve favorable legislative or regulatory outcomes. Negative opinions could also result in sales volume reductions or increased use of distributed generation. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.We are subject to federal regulatory compliance and proceedings, which exposes us to the potential for regulatory penalties and other sanctions.The FERC can impose civil penalties of $1 million per violation per day for violation of FERC statutes, rules, and orders, including mandatory NERC reliability standards. As owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems and electric energy centers, we are subject to mandatory NERC reliability standards, including cybersecurity standards. Compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. If we were found not to be in compliance with these mandatory reliability standards or the FERC statutes, rules, and orders, we could incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. The FERC also conducts audits and reviews of Ameren Missouri's, Ameren Illinois', and ATXI's accounting records to assess the accuracy of its formula ratemaking process and has the ability to require retroactive refunds to customers for previously billed amounts, with interest.OPERATIONAL RISKSThe construction of and capital improvements to our electric and natural gas utility infrastructure involve substantial risks. These risks include escalating costs, unsatisfactory performance by the projects when completed, the inability to complete projects as scheduled, cost disallowances by regulators, and the inability to earn an adequate return on invested capital, any of which could  result in higher costs and facility closures.We expect to incur significant capital expenditures in order to make investments to maintain and improve our electric and natural gas utility infrastructure and to comply with existing environmental regulations. We estimate that we will incur up to $11.5 billion (Ameren Missouri – up to $4.3 billion; Ameren Illinois – up to $6.2 billion; ATXI – up to $1.0 billion) of capital expenditures during 2016 through 2020, excluding the impacts of the Clean Power Plan. These estimates include allowance for equity funds used during construction. Investments in Ameren’s rate-regulated operations are expected to be recoverable from ratepayers, but are subject to prudence reviews and are exposed to regulatory lag to varying degrees by jurisdiction. Our ability to complete construction projects successfully within projected estimates is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. These variables include, but are not limited to, project management expertise and escalating costs for materials, labor, and environmental compliance. Delays in obtaining permits, shortages in materials and qualified labor, suppliers and contractors who do not perform as required under their contracts, changes in the scope and timing of projects, the inability to raise capital on reasonable terms, or other events beyond our control could affect the schedule, cost, and performance of these projects. With respect to capital expenditures for pollution control equipment, there is a risk that a power plant may not be permitted to continue to operate if pollution control equipment is not installed by prescribed deadlines or does not perform as expected. Should any such pollution control equipment not be installed on time or perform as expected, Ameren Missouri could be subject to additional costs and to the loss of its investment in the project or facility. All of these project and construction risks could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Ameren and Ameren Illinois may not be able to execute their electric transmission investment plans or to realize the expected return on those investments.Ameren, through ATXI and Ameren Illinois, is investing significant capital resources in electric transmission. These investments are based on the FERC's regulatory framework and a rate of return on common equity, that is currently higher than that allowed by our state commissions. However, the FERC regulatory framework and rate of return is subject to change, including changes as a result of third-party complaints and challenges at the FERC. The regulatory framework may not be as favorable, or the rate of return may be lower, in the future. Currently, the FERC-allowed return on common equity for MISO transmission owners is 12.38%. In November 2013, a complaint case was filed with the FERC seeking a reduction in the allowed return on common equity under the MISO tariff. In December 2015, a FERC administrative law judge issued an initial decision in the November 2013 complaint case that would lower the allowed base return on common equity to 10.32%. The FERC is expected to issue a final order on the November 2013 complaint case by October 2016. A second complaint case was filed in February 2015. The outcome of these complaint cases could 20Table of Contentsnegatively affect Ameren Illinois' and ATXI's allowed return. Any such reduction would also result in a refund of transmission service revenues earned since the filing of the initial complaint case in November 2013. As of December 31, 2015, Ameren and Ameren Illinois had current regulatory liabilities of $45 million and $32 million, respectively, representing their estimates of the potential refunds from the refund effective date. A 50 basis point reduction in the FERC-allowed return on common equity would reduce Ameren's and Ameren Illinois' earnings by an estimated $6 million and $3 million, respectively, based on each company's 2016 projected rate base. A significant portion of Ameren's electric transmission investments consists of three separate projects to be constructed by ATXI, which have been approved by MISO as multi-value projects. The total investment by ATXI in all three projects is expected to be more than $1.6 billion. The last of these projects is expected to be completed in 2019. A failure by ATXI to complete these three projects on time and within projected cost estimates could adversely affect Ameren's results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. The FERC has issued orders, which are subject to ongoing litigation, eliminating the right of first refusal for an electric utility to construct within its service territory certain new transmission projects for which there will be regional cost sharing. If these orders are upheld by the courts, Ameren would need to compete to build certain future electric transmission projects in its subsidiaries' service territories. Such competition could limit Ameren's future transmission investment. Conversely, if such FERC orders are not upheld by the courts, the right of first refusal would be expected to be reinstated. In such event, Ameren may lose opportunities outside of its subsidiaries' service territories and outside of MISO to construct electric transmission assets. Our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. Operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities involves many risks, including:•facility shutdowns due to operator error or a failure of equipment or processes;•longer-than-anticipated maintenance outages;•aging infrastructure that may require significant expenditures to operate and maintain;•disruptions in the delivery of fuel, failure of our fuel suppliers to provide adequate quantities or quality of fuel, or lack of adequate inventories of fuel, including ultra-low-sulfur coal used for Ameren Missouri’s compliance with environmental regulations;•lack of adequate water required for cooling plant operations;•labor disputes;•inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements, including those relating to environmental laws; •disruptions in the delivery of electricity that affect our customers;•handling, storage, and disposition of CCR;•unusual or adverse weather conditions or other natural disasters, including severe storms, droughts, floods, tornadoes, earthquakes, solar flares, and electromagnetic pulses;•accidents that might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage, or environmental damage;•cybersecurity risks, including loss of operational control of Ameren Missouri's energy centers and our transmission and distribution systems and loss of data, such as customer data and account information through insider or outsider actions;•failure of other operators' facilities and the effect of that failure on our electric system and customers;•the occurrence of catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, acts of sabotage or terrorism, pandemic health events, or other similar occurrences;•limitations on amounts of insurance available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operating our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities; and•other unanticipated operations and maintenance expenses and liabilities.Ameren Missouri’s ownership and operation of a nuclear energy center creates business, financial, and waste disposal risks.Ameren Missouri’s ownership of the Callaway energy center subjects it to the risks associated with nuclear generation, which include the following:•potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials;•continued uncertainty regarding the federal government's plan to permanently store spent nuclear fuel and the risk of being required to provide for long-term storage of spent nuclear fuel at the Callaway energy center;•limitations on the amounts and types of insurance available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the Callaway energy center or other United States nuclear facilities;•uncertainties with respect to contingencies and retrospective premium assessments relating to claims at the Callaway energy center or any other United States nuclear facilities;•public and governmental concerns about the adequacy of security at nuclear facilities;•uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear facilities at the end of their licensed lives;•limited availability of fuel supply; •costly and extended outages for scheduled or unscheduled maintenance and refueling; and•potential adverse effects of a natural disaster, acts of sabotage or terrorism, or any accident leading to release of nuclear contamination.21Table of ContentsThe NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety requirements for nuclear facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or to shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated from time to time by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear facilities such as the Callaway energy center. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could adversely affect Ameren's and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation of any domestic nuclear unit and could also cause the NRC to impose additional conditions or requirements on the industry, which could increase costs and result in additional capital expenditures. NRC standards relating to seismic risk require Ameren Missouri to further evaluate the impact of an earthquake on its Callaway energy center due its proximity to a fault line, which could require the installation of additional capital equipment.Our natural gas distribution and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Inherent in our natural gas distribution and storage activities are a variety of hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, mechanical problems and cybersecurity risks, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these hazards could result in serious injury, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental impacts, and impairment of our operations, which in turn could lead us to incur substantial losses. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of distribution mains and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, business centers, industrial sites, and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. A major domestic incident involving natural gas systems could lead to additional capital expenditures and increased regulation of natural gas utilities. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Significant portions of our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities and natural gas transmission and distribution facilities are aging. This aging infrastructure may require additional maintenance expenditures or may require replacement, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Our aging infrastructure may pose risks to system reliability and expose us to expedited or unplanned capital expenditures and operating costs. All of Ameren Missouri’s coal-fired energy centers were constructed prior to 1978, and the Callaway nuclear energy center began operating in 1984. The age of these energy centers increases the risks of unplanned outages, reduced  generation output, and higher maintenance expense. If, at the end of its life, an energy center's cost has not been fully recovered, Ameren Missouri may be adversely affected if such cost is not allowed in rates by the MoPSC. Aging transmission and distribution facilities are more prone to failure than new facilities, which results in higher maintenance expense and the need to replace these facilities with new infrastructure. Even if the system is properly maintained, its reliability may ultimately deteriorate and negatively affect our ability to serve our customers, which could result in additional oversight by our regulators. The frequency and duration of customer outages are IEIMA performance standards and therefore, if these standards are not achieved, it will result in a reduction in Ameren Illinois' allowed return on equity. The higher maintenance costs associated with aging infrastructure and capital expenditures for new replacement infrastructure could cause additional rate volatility for our customers, resistance by our regulators to allow customer rate increases, and/or regulatory lag in some of our jurisdictions, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Energy conservation, energy efficiency, distributed generation, energy storage, and other factors that reduce energy demand could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Requirements and incentives to reduce energy consumption have been proposed by regulatory agencies and introduced by legislatures. Conservation and energy efficiency programs are designed to reduce energy demand. Without a regulatory mechanism to ensure recovery, a decline in usage will result in an under-recovery of our revenue requirement. Ameren Missouri, even if it sponsors customer energy efficiency programs under the MEEIA, is exposed to declining usage losses from energy efficiency efforts not related to its specific programs, as well as from distributed generation sources such as solar panels. Additionally, macroeconomic factors resulting in low economic growth or contraction within our service territories could reduce energy demand.Technological advances could reduce or change customer electricity consumption. Ameren Missouri generates power at utility-scale energy centers to achieve economies of scale and to produce power at a competitive cost. Some distributed generation technologies have become more cost-competitive, with decreasing costs expected in the future. We expect that the costs of these distributed generation technologies will decline over time to a level that is competitive with that of Ameren Missouri's energy centers. Additionally, technological advances related to energy storage may be coupled with distributed generation to reduce the demand for our electric utility services. Increased adoption of these technologies could decrease our revenues if customers cease to use our generation, transmission, and distribution services at current levels. Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois might incur stranded costs, which ultimately might not be recovered through rates.We are subject to employee work force factors that could adversely affect our operations. 22Table of ContentsOur businesses depend upon our ability to employ and retain key officers and other skilled professional and technical employees. A significant portion of our work force is nearing retirement, including many employees with specialized skills, such as maintaining and servicing our electric and natural gas infrastructure and operating our energy centers. We are also subject to collective bargaining agreements that collectively represent about 54% of Ameren’s total employees. Any work stoppage experienced in connection with negotiations of collective bargaining agreements could adversely affect our operations.Our operations are subject to acts of sabotage, war, terrorism, cyber attacks, and other intentionally disruptive acts.Like other electric and natural gas utilities, our energy centers, fuel storage facilities, transmission and distribution facilities, and information systems may be targets of terrorist activities, including cyber attacks, which could disrupt our ability to produce or distribute our energy products. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant costs for repair, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Our industry has seen an increase in volume and sophistication of cybersecurity incidents from international activist organizations, countries, and individuals. A security breach at our physical assets or in information systems could affect the reliability of the transmission and distribution system, disrupt electric generation, and/or subject us to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information, including sensitive customer and employee data. If a significant breach occurred, our reputation could be adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or we could be subject to legal claims, any of which could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant costs for remedying the impacts of such a breach. Our generation, transmission, and distribution systems are part of an interconnected system. Therefore, a disruption caused by a cybersecurity incident at another utility, electric generator, RTO, or commodity supplier could also adversely affect our businesses. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. In addition, new regulations could require changes in our security measures and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC, AND MARKET RISKSOur businesses are dependent on our ability to access the capital markets successfully. We might not have access to sufficient capital in the amounts and at the times needed.We rely on short-term and long-term debt as significant sources of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not satisfied by our operating cash flow, as well as to refinance long-term debt. The inability to raise debt or equity capital on reasonable terms, or at all, could negatively affect our ability to maintain and to expand our businesses. Events beyond our control, such as a recession or extreme volatility in the debt,  equity, or credit markets, might create uncertainty that could increase our cost of capital or impair or eliminate our ability to access the debt, equity, or credit markets, including our ability to draw on bank credit facilities. Any adverse change in our credit ratings could reduce access to capital and trigger additional collateral postings and prepayments. Such changes could also increase the cost of borrowing and fuel, power, and natural gas supply, among other things, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Certain Ameren subsidiaries, such as ATXI, rely on Ameren for access to capital. Circumstances that limit Ameren’s access to capital could impair its ability to provide those subsidiaries with needed capital. Ameren’s holding company structure could limit its ability to pay common stock dividends and to service its debt obligations.Ameren is a holding company; therefore, its primary assets are its investments in the common stock of its subsidiaries, including Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI. As a result, Ameren’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the earnings of its subsidiaries and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer funds to Ameren. Similarly, Ameren’s ability to service its debt obligations is dependent upon the earnings of operating subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings and other payments, including payments of principal and interest under intercompany indebtedness. The payment of dividends to Ameren by its subsidiaries in turn depends on their results of operations and available cash and other items affecting retained earnings. Ameren’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any dividends or make any other distributions (except for payments required pursuant to the terms of intercompany borrowing arrangements and cash payments under the tax allocation agreement) to Ameren. Certain financing agreements, corporate organizational documents, and certain statutory and regulatory requirements may impose restrictions on the ability of Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI to transfer funds to Ameren in the form of cash dividends, loans, or advances.Noranda's bankruptcy filing, the expected curtailment of operations at its aluminum smelter, and the resulting significant reduction in sales volumes to Noranda will adversely affect Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.  Ameren Missouri supplies electricity to Noranda’s aluminum smelter in southeast Missouri under a long-term power supply contract. In its April 2015 electric rate order, the MoPSC approved a rate design that established $78 million in annual revenues, net of fuel and purchased power costs, as Noranda’s portion of Ameren Missouri’s revenue requirement. The portion of Ameren Missouri’s annual revenue requirement reflected in Noranda’s electric rate is based on the assumption that the smelter will use approximately 4.2 million megawatthours annually, which is almost 100% of its operating capacity. On January 8, 2016, Noranda announced that production had been idled at two of its three pot lines at the smelter following 23Table of Contentsan electric supply circuit failure on assets not owned by Ameren Missouri. On January 13, 2016, Noranda announced that the smelter’s “remaining operations will be curtailed on or before March 12, 2016, unless [Noranda] is able to secure a substantially more sustainable power rate for the smelter and materially improve [Noranda’s] overall liquidity.” On February 8, 2016, Noranda filed voluntary petitions for a court-supervised restructuring process under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. In the filing, Noranda reaffirmed that the remaining pot line will continue to operate at the smelter until March 2016, at which time operation of the line will be curtailed. Noranda stated it would maintain the flexibility to restart operations at the smelter should conditions allow. As a result of these events in 2016, actual sales volumes to Noranda will be significantly below the sales volumes reflected in rates and therefore, Ameren Missouri will not fully recover its revenue requirement until rates are adjusted by the MoPSC in a future electric rate case to accurately reflect Noranda’s actual sales volumes. In light of the Noranda announcements described above, Ameren Missouri expects to employ a provision in its FAC tariff that, under certain circumstances, allows Ameren Missouri to retain a portion of any revenues from any off-system sales it makes as a result of the reduced tariff sales to Noranda. The current market price of electricity is less than Noranda’s electric rate, and Ameren Missouri expects market prices to remain below Noranda's electric rate during 2016. Accordingly, this FAC provision would not enable Ameren Missouri to fully recover its revenue requirement under current market conditions. Ameren Missouri will continue to monitor Noranda’s sales volumes and evaluate its regulatory and legislative options to mitigate adverse financial impacts. The reduction in Noranda’s sales volumes will adversely affect Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity until customer rates are adjusted in a future rate case.Increasing costs associated with our defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits could adversely affect our financial position and liquidity.Ameren offers defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans covering substantially all of its union employees. Ameren offers defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its non-union employees and postretirement benefit plans covering non-union employees hired before October 2015. Assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates, timing of employee retirements, and mortality, as well as other actuarial matters, have a significant impact on our customers' rates and our plan funding requirements. Ameren's total unfunded obligation under its pension and postretirement benefit plans was $567 million as of December 31, 2015. Ameren expects to fund its pension plans at a level equal to the greater of the pension expense or the legally required minimum contribution. Considering Ameren’s assumptions at December 31, 2015, its investment performance in 2015, and its pension funding policy, Ameren expects to make annual contributions of $40 million to $70 million in each of the  next five years, with aggregate estimated contributions of $280 million. We expect Ameren Missouri’s and Ameren Illinois’ portions of the future funding requirements to be 40% and 50%, respectively. These amounts are estimates. They may change with actual investment performance, changes in interest rates, changes in our assumptions, changes in government regulations, and any voluntary contributions.In addition to the costs of our retirement plans, the costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees have increased in recent years. We believe that our employee benefit costs, including costs of health care plans for our employees and former employees, will continue to rise. The increasing costs and funding requirements associated with our defined benefit retirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits could increase our financing needs and otherwise adversely affect our financial position and liquidity.ITEM 1B