Item 1A, and Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, and Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.15Table of ContentsOPERATING STATISTICSThe following tables present key electric and natural gas operating statistics for Ameren for the past three years:Electric Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31,2012 2011 2010Electric Sales – kilowatthours (in millions):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential13,385 13,867 14,640Commercial14,575 14,743 15,002Industrial8,660 8,691 8,656Other126 127 129Native load subtotal36,746 37,428 38,427Off-system and wholesale7,293 10,715 9,796Subtotal44,039 48,143 48,223Ameren Illinois:     Residential     Power supply and delivery service9,507 11,771 12,340Delivery service only2,103 77 1Commercial     Power supply and delivery service2,985 3,662 4,419Delivery service only9,175 8,561 8,051Industrial     Power supply and delivery service1,595 1,502 1,389Delivery service only11,753 11,360 11,147Other523 529 545Native load subtotal37,641 37,462 37,892Merchant Generation:     Nonaffiliate energy sales25,552 31,148 30,788Affiliate native energy sales1,679 1,004 949Subtotal27,231 32,152 31,737Eliminate affiliate sales(1,679) (1,004) (949)Eliminate Ameren Illinois/Merchant Generation common customers(7,261) (5,454) (5,016)Ameren total99,971 111,299 111,887Electric Operating Revenues (in millions):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential$1,297 $1,272 $1,193Commercial1,088 1,084 1,004Industrial435 438 399Other104 76 91Native load subtotal$2,924 $2,870 $2,687Off-system and wholesale208 352 343Subtotal$3,132 $3,222 $3,030Ameren Illinois:     Residential     Power supply and delivery service$961 $1,194 $1,270Delivery service only90 3 —Commercial     Power supply and delivery service254 350 425Delivery service only177 157 143Industrial     Power supply and delivery service57 65 66Delivery service only46 43 38Other154 128 119Native load subtotal$1,739 $1,940 $2,061Merchant Generation:     Nonaffiliate energy sales$1,047 $1,382 $1,442Affiliate native energy sales311 232 231Other15 12 20Subtotal$1,373 $1,626 $1,693Eliminate affiliate revenues(340) (258) (263)Ameren total$5,904 $6,530 $6,52116Table of ContentsElectric Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31,2012 2011 2010Electric Generation – megawatthours (in millions):     Ameren Missouri44.7 48.8 48.1Merchant Generation:     Genco18.5 22.0 22.0AERG7.2 7.0 7.5Medina Valley— 0.1 0.1Subtotal25.7 29.1 29.6Ameren total70.4 77.9 77.7Price per ton of delivered coal (average)$36.63 $33.79 $32.91Source of energy supply:     Coal65.1% 66.5% 65.7%Nuclear12.4 9.4 8.9Hydroelectric1.1 1.3 1.6Natural gas2.7 1.1 1.0Purchased – Wind0.4 0.3 0.3Purchased – Other18.3 21.4 22.5 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%Gas Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31,2012 2011 2010Natural Gas Sales (millions of dekatherms):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential6 7 7Commercial3 3 4Industrial1 1 1Subtotal10 11 12Ameren Illinois:     Residential49 56 60Commercial17 21 23Industrial5 5 7Other3 — —Subtotal74 82 90Other:     Industrial— — 1Subtotal— — 1Ameren total84 93 103Natural Gas Operating Revenues (in millions)     Ameren Missouri:     Residential$85 $96 $100Commercial36 41 43Industrial8 9 10Other10 10 13Subtotal$139 $156 $166Ameren Illinois:     Residential$547 $588 $649Commercial172 195 223Industrial24 30 44Other43 33 37Subtotal$786 $846 $953Other:     Industrial$— $— $4Eliminate affiliate revenues(1) (1) (6)Ameren total$924 $1,001 $1,117Peak day throughput (thousands of dekatherms):     Ameren Missouri139 149 167Ameren Illinois1,061 1,157 1,227Total peak day throughput1,200 1,306 1,39417Table of ContentsAVAILABLE INFORMATIONThe Ameren Companies make available free of charge through Ameren’s website (www.ameren.com) their annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents, and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably possible after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also available through an Internet website maintained by the SEC (www.sec.gov). Ameren also uses its website as a channel of distribution of material information relating to the Ameren Companies. Financial and other material information regarding the Ameren Companies is routinely posted and accessible at Ameren’s website.The Ameren Companies also make available free of charge through Ameren’s website the charters of Ameren’s board of directors’ audit and risk committee, human resources committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, finance committee, and nuclear oversight and environmental committee; the corporate governance guidelines; a policy regarding communications to the board of directors; a policy and procedures with respect to related-person transactions; a code of ethics for principal executive and senior financial officers; a code of business conduct applicable to all directors, officers and employees; and a director nomination policy that applies to the Ameren Companies. The information on Ameren’s website, or any other website referenced in this report, is not incorporated by reference into this report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSInvestors should review carefully the following material risk factors and the other information contained in this report. The risks that the Ameren Companies face are not limited to those in this section. There may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may adversely affect the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of the Ameren Companies. See Forward-Looking Statements above and Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, of this report.The Ameren Companies are subject to extensive regulation of their businesses, which could adversely affect their results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The Ameren Companies are subject to, or affected by, extensive federal, state, and local regulation. This extensive regulatory framework, some but not all of which is more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other matters, the electric and natural gas industries; rate and cost structure of utilities; operation of nuclear energy centers; construction and operation of generation, transmission, and distribution facilities; acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities; transmission reliability; and  present or prospective wholesale and retail competition. The Ameren Companies must address in their business planning and management of operations the effects of existing and proposed laws and regulations and potential changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by federal and state legislatures, RTOs, utility regulators, and taxing authorities. Significant changes in the nature of the regulation of the Ameren Companies’ businesses could require changes to their business planning and management of their businesses and could adversely affect their results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Failure of the Ameren Companies to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals in a timely manner, failure to obtain necessary licenses or permits from regulatory authorities, new or modified laws, regulations, standards, interpretations, or other legal requirements, or increased compliance costs could adversely impact the Ameren Companies’ results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The electric and natural gas rates that Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois are allowed to charge are determined through regulatory proceedings, which are subject to appeal, and are subject to legislative actions, which are largely outside of their control. Any events that prevent Ameren Missouri or Ameren Illinois from recovering their respective costs or from earning appropriate returns on their investments could adversely affect the Ameren Companies' results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The rates that Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois are allowed to charge for their utility services significantly influence the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of these companies and Ameren. The electric and natural gas utility industries are highly regulated. The utility rates charged to Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois customers are determined, in large part, by governmental entities, including the MoPSC, the ICC, and FERC. Decisions by these entities are influenced by many factors, including the cost of providing service, the prudency of expenditures, the quality of service, regulatory staff knowledge and experience, economic conditions, public policy, and social and political views. Decisions made by these governmental entities regarding rates are largely outside of Ameren Missouri’s and Ameren Illinois’ control. Regulatory lag involved in filing and getting new rates approved could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Rate orders are also subject to appeal, which creates additional uncertainty as to the rates Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois will ultimately be allowed to charge for their services.Ameren Missouri electric and natural gas utility rates and Ameren Illinois natural gas utility rates are typically established in regulatory proceedings that take up to 11 months to complete. Rates established in those proceedings for Ameren Missouri are primarily based on historical costs and revenues. Rates established in those proceedings for Ameren Illinois may be based on historical or estimated future costs and revenues. Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may not match its costs at any given time. Rates include an allowed return on investments by the regulators. Although rate regulation is premised on 18Table of Contentsproviding a reasonable opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will judge all the costs of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of such costs or an adequate return on those investments.In years when capital investments and operations costs rise while customer usage declines, such as in 2012, Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois may not be able to earn the allowed return established by their regulators. This could result in the deferral or elimination of planned capital investments, which reduces the rate base investments the utility operations earn a rate of return on. Additionally, a period of increasing rates for our customers could result in additional regulatory and legislative actions, as well as competitive and political pressures, which could adversely affect the Ameren Companies' results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Through its participation in the performance-based formula ratemaking process established pursuant to the IEIMA, Ameren Illinois’ return on equity will be directly correlated to yields on United States treasury bonds. Additionally, Ameren Illinois will be subject to an annual ICC prudence review and to the ICC's implementation of the IEIMA, and Ameren Illinois will be required to achieve performance objectives, increase capital spending levels, and meet job creation targets, which if not successfully completed or achieved could adversely affect Ameren Illinois' results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.In 2012, Ameren Illinois elected to participate in the performance-based formula ratemaking process established pursuant to the IEIMA for its electric distribution business. The ICC will annually review Ameren Illinois’ performance-based rate filings under the IEIMA for reasonableness and prudency. If the ICC were to conclude that Ameren Illinois’ incurred costs were not prudently incurred, the ICC could disallow recovery of such costs. Ameren is also subject to the ICC's implementation of the IEIMA's formula rates. After reviewing the ICC's IEIMA formula rate orders in 2012, Ameren Illinois believes that the ICC has incorrectly implemented the IEIMA. Ameren Illinois objects to the ICC's use of an average rate base as opposed to a year-end rate base in setting rates, to its treatment of accumulated deferred income taxes, and to the methods it used to calculate the equity portion of Ameren Illinois' capital structure and to calculate interest on the revenue requirement reconciliation and return on equity collar. The return on equity component of the formula rate is equal to the average for the calendar year of the monthly yields of 30-year United States treasury bonds plus 580 basis points for years after 2012. Therefore, Ameren Illinois’ annual return on equity will be directly correlated to yields on United States treasury bonds, which are outside of Ameren Illinois’ control.Ameren Illinois will also be subject to performance  standards. Failure to achieve the standards will result in a reduction in the company’s allowed return on equity calculated under the formula. The IEIMA provides for return on equity penalties totaling 30 basis points in 2013 through 2015, 34 basis points in 2016 through 2018, and 38 basis points in 2019 through 2022 if the performance standards are not met.Between 2012 and 2021, Ameren Illinois will be required to invest $625 million in capital expenditures incremental to Ameren Illinois’ average electric delivery capital expenditures for calendar years 2008 through 2010 to modernize its distribution system. Ameren Illinois is subject to monetary penalties if 450 additional jobs in Illinois are not created during the peak program year.The formula ratemaking process would terminate if the average residential rate increases by more than 2.5% annually from June 2011 through May 2014. The average residential rate includes generation service, which is outside of Ameren Illinois’ control, as Ameren Illinois is required to purchase all of its power through procurement processes administered by the IPA. If the performance-based formula rate process is terminated, Ameren Illinois would be required to establish future rates through a traditional rate proceeding with the ICC, which might not result in rates that produce a full or timely recovery of costs or an adequate return on investments. Unless extended, the IEIMA formula ratemaking process expires in 2017.Energy conservation, energy efficiency efforts and other factors that reduce energy demand could adversely affect the Ameren Companies’ results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed or introduced requirements and incentives to reduce energy consumption. Conservation and energy efficiency programs are designed to reduce energy demand. Unless there is a regulatory solution ensuring recovery, declining usage will result in an underrecovery of fixed costs at our rate-regulated business. Ameren Missouri, even with the implementation of energy efficiency programs under the MEEIA, is exposed to declining usage losses from energy efficiency efforts not related to its specific programs as well as distributed generation sources such as solar panels. Macroeconomic factors resulting in low economic growth or contraction within the Ameren Companies' service territories could also reduce energy demand. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that require significant capital expenditures. Failure to meet these standards could result in closure of facilities, increase our operating costs, adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity, or expose us to fines and liabilities.We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations enforced by federal, state, and local authorities. From the beginning phases of siting and development to the operation of existing or new electric generating, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas storage, transmission and distribution facilities, our activities involve compliance with diverse environmental laws and regulations. These laws and 19Table of Contentsregulations address emissions, impacts to air, land, and water, noise, protected natural and cultural resources (such as wetlands, endangered species, and other protected wildlife, and archaeological and historical resources), and chemical and waste handling. Complex and lengthy processes are required to obtain approvals, permits, or licenses for new, existing, or modified facilities. Additionally, the use and handling of various chemicals or hazardous materials (including wastes) requires release prevention plans and emergency response procedures.We are also subject to liability under environmental laws that address the remediation of environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us or by our predecessors, as well as property contaminated by hazardous substances that we generated. Such sites include MGP sites and third-party sites, such as landfills. Additionally, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege injury from exposure to hazardous materials.In addition to existing laws and regulations, including the Illinois MPS that applies to our energy centers in Illinois, the EPA is developing numerous new environmental regulations that will have a significant impact on the electric utility industry. These regulations could be particularly burdensome for certain companies, including Ameren, Ameren Missouri, and AER, that operate coal-fired energy centers. These new regulations may be litigated, so the timing of their ultimate implementation is uncertain, as evidenced by the stay and remand of the CSAPR.Ameren is also subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations. The EPA is engaged in an enforcement initiative to determine whether coal-fired energy centers failed to comply with the requirements of the NSR and NSPS provisions under the Clean Air Act when the energy centers implemented modifications. Following the issuance of a Notice of Violation, in January 2011, the Department of Justice on behalf of the EPA filed a complaint against Ameren Missouri in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The EPA’s complaint alleges that in performing projects at its Rush Island coal-fired energy center, Ameren Missouri violated provisions of the Clean Air Act and Missouri law. In January 2012, the United States District Court granted, in part, Ameren Missouri’s motion to dismiss various aspects of the EPA’s penalty claims. The EPA’s claims for injunctive relief, including requiring the installation of pollution control equipment, remain. Litigation of this matter could take many years. An outcome in this matter adverse to Ameren Missouri could require substantial capital expenditures and the payment of substantial penalties, neither of which can be determined at this time. Such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions.In August 2012, Genco received a Notice of Violation from the EPA alleging violations of permitting requirements including Title V of the Clean Air Act. The EPA contends that projects performed in 1997, 2006, and 2007 at Genco's Newton energy center violated federal laws. Ameren and Genco are unable to predict the outcome of this matter and whether the EPA will address this Notice of Violation administratively or through  litigation.Ameren, Ameren Missouri, and AER have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation. New environmental regulations, revised environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines, enforcement initiatives, or legislation could result in a significant increase in capital expenditures and operating costs, decreased revenues, increased financing requirements, penalties, fines, or closure of facilities for Ameren, Ameren Missouri, and AER. Actions required to ensure that our facilities and operations are in compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be prohibitively expensive. As a result, environmental regulations could require us to close or to significantly alter the operation of our energy centers, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity, including the impairment of plant assets. Although costs incurred by Ameren Missouri ensure that its facilities are in compliance with environmental laws and regulations would be eligible for recovery in rates over time, subject to MoPSC approval in a rate proceeding, there is no similar cost recovery mechanism with respect to AER. We are unable to predict the ultimate impact of these matters on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Future limits on greenhouse gas emissions would probably require Ameren, Ameren Missouri, and AER to incur significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs, which, if excessive, could result in the closures of coal-fired energy centers, impairment of assets, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.State and federal authorities, including the United States Congress, have considered initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions and to address global climate change. Impacts from any climate change legislation or regulation could vary, depending upon proposed CO2 emission limits, the timing of implementation of those limits, the method of distributing any allowances, the degree to which offsets are allowed and available, and provisions for cost-containment measures, such as a “safety valve” provision that provides a maximum price for emission allowances. As a result of our diverse fuel portfolio, our emissions of greenhouse gases vary among our energy centers, but coal-fired energy centers are significant sources of CO2. The enactment of a climate change law could result in a significant rise in rates for electricity, and thereby household costs. The burden could fall particularly hard on electricity consumers and upon the economy in the Midwest because of the region’s reliance on electricity generated by coal-fired energy centers.Future federal and state legislation or regulations that mandate limits on the emission of greenhouse gases would probably result in significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs, which, in turn, could lead to increased liquidity needs and higher financing costs. Moreover, if Ameren Missouri requests recovery of these costs through rates, its regulators could deny some or all of these costs, or defer timely recovery of them. Excessive costs to comply with future 20Table of Contentslegislation or regulations might force Ameren, Ameren Missouri, and AER to close some coal-fired energy centers earlier than planned, which could lead to possible impairment of assets and reduced revenues. As a result, mandatory limits could have a material adverse impact on Ameren’s, Ameren Missouri’s, and AER's results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The construction of, and capital improvements to, the Ameren Companies' electric and natural gas utility infrastructure and AER's energy centers involve substantial risks. These risks include escalating costs, unsatisfactory performance by the projects when completed, the inability to complete projects as scheduled, cost disallowances by regulators, and the inability to earn a reasonable return on invested capital, any of which could result in higher costs and the closure of facilities.The Ameren Companies expect to incur significant capital expenditures to comply with existing and known environmental regulations and to make investments in their electric and natural gas utility infrastructure and in AER's energy centers if they are owned by Ameren over the next five years. Ameren estimates it will incur up to $9.5 billion (Ameren Missouri - up to $3.8 billion; Ameren Illinois - up to $3.9 billion; AER - up to $0.4 billion; other - up to $1.4 billion) of capital expenditures during the period 2013 through 2017. These expenses include construction expenditures, capitalized interest or allowance for funds used during construction, and capital expenditures for compliance with environmental standards and with the requirements of the IEIMA. Investments in Ameren’s rate-regulated operations are expected to be recoverable from ratepayers, but are subject to prudency reviews and regulatory lag. The recoverability of amounts expended in Ameren's Merchant Generation operations will depend upon market prices for capacity and energy.The ability of the Ameren Companies to complete construction projects successfully, and within projected estimates, is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. These variables include, but are not limited to, project management expertise and escalating costs for materials, labor, and environmental compliance. Delays in obtaining permits, shortages in materials and qualified labor, suppliers and contractors who do not perform as required under their contracts, changes in the scope and timing of projects, the inability to raise capital on favorable terms, or other events beyond our control that could occur may materially affect the schedule, cost, and performance of these projects. With respect to capital expenditures for pollution control equipment, there is a risk that energy centers will not be permitted to continue to operate if pollution control equipment is not installed by prescribed deadlines or does not perform as expected. Should any such pollution control equipment not be installed on time or perform as expected, the Ameren Companies could be subject to additional costs and to the loss of their investment in the project or facility.  All of these risks may adversely affect the Ameren Companies’ results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. As of December 31, 2012, Ameren Missouri had capitalized $69 million of costs incurred to license additional nuclear generation at its Callaway energy site.  If efforts are permanently abandoned or management concludes it is probable the costs incurred will be disallowed in rates, a charge to earnings would be recognized in the period in which that determination was made.We may not be able to execute our electric transmission investment plans and realize the expected return on those investments.Ameren, through ATXI and Ameren Illinois, is allocating significant additional capital resources to electric transmission investments. This allocation of capital resources is based on FERC's regulatory framework and a rate of return on common equity that is currently higher than allowed by our state commissions. However the FERC regulatory framework and rate of return is subject to change and the regulatory framework may not be as favorable, or the rate of return may be lower, in the future. A significant number of our planned electric transmission investments have been approved by MISO as three separate multi-value projects to be constructed by ATXI. The total investment in these three projects is expected to be more than $1.3 billion with the last of these projects expected to be completed in 2019. Any failure by Ameren to complete these three projects as designed on time and within projected cost estimates, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Future investments may be affected by changes in FERC policy regarding the utilities' right of first refusal to construct new transmission projects within their service territory. In the future, Ameren may not be able to invest in electric transmission to the extent desired.Our counterparties may not meet their obligations to us, and Ameren affiliates may not meet their obligations to each other.We are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, credit, energy, coal, or other commodities or services will not be able to perform their obligations or, with respect to our credit facilities, will fail to honor their commitments. Should the counterparties to commodity arrangements fail to perform, we might be forced to replace or to sell the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. Should the lenders under our credit facilities fail to perform, the level of borrowing capacity under those arrangements would decrease, unless we were able to find replacement lenders to assume the nonperforming lender’s commitment. In such an event, we might incur losses, or our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity could otherwise be adversely affected.Certain of the Ameren Companies have obligations to other Ameren Companies or other Ameren subsidiaries as a result of transactions involving energy, coal, other commodities and services, borrowing from the money pools, and as a result of hedging transactions. If one Ameren entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other Ameren entities might incur 21Table of Contentslosses. Their results of operations, financial position, and liquidity could be adversely affected, resulting in the nondefaulting Ameren entity being unable to meet its obligations, including to unrelated third parties.  Ameren (parent) may itself have to fulfill its subsidiary obligations based on guarantees it has entered into on behalf of its subsidiaries. See Note 14 - Related Party Transactions under Part II, Item 8 for information on Ameren (parent) guarantees.Increasing costs associated with our defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.We offer defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans that cover substantially all of our employees. Assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates, and other actuarial matters have a significant impact on our earnings and funding requirements. Ameren expects to fund its pension plans at a level equal to the greater of the pension expense or the legally required minimum contribution. Considering Ameren’s assumptions at December 31, 2012, its investment performance in 2012, and its pension funding policy, Ameren expects to make annual contributions of $60 million to $150 million in each of the next five years, with aggregate estimated contributions of $550 million. We expect Ameren Missouri’s and Ameren Illinois’ portion of the future funding requirements to be 50% and 40%, respectively. These amounts are estimates. They may change with actual investment performance, changes in interest rates, changes in our assumptions, changes in government regulations, and any voluntary contributions.In addition to the costs of our retirement plans, the costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees have increased in recent years. We believe that our employee benefit costs, including costs of health care plans for our employees and former employees, will continue to rise. The increasing costs and funding requirements associated with our defined benefit retirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits could increase our financing needs and otherwise materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Our electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The Ameren Companies’ financial performance depends on the successful operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. Operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities involves many risks, including:•facility shutdowns due to operator error or a failure of equipment or processes;•longer-than-anticipated maintenance outages;•older generating equipment may require significant expenditures to keep it operating at peak efficiency;•disruptions in the delivery of fuel or lack of adequate  inventories, including ultra-low-sulfur coal used for Ameren Missouri’s compliance with environmental regulations;•lack of water, through low river levels or other causes, required for cooling plant operations;•labor disputes;•inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements, including those relating to environmental contamination;•disruptions in the delivery of electricity, including impacts on us or our customers;•handling and storage of fossil-fuel combustion byproducts, such as CCR;•unusual or adverse weather conditions, including severe storms, droughts, floods and tornadoes;•a workplace accident that might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage, or environmental damage;•cybersecurity risk, including loss of operational control of our energy centers and our electric and natural gas transmission and distribution systems and/or loss of data, such as utility customer data, account information, and intellectual property through insider or outsider actions;•catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, pandemic health events, or other similar occurrences;•limitations on amounts of insurance available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operating our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities; and•other unanticipated operations and maintenance expenses and liabilities.Our natural gas distribution and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Inherent in our natural gas distribution and storage activities are a variety of hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, mechanical problems and cybersecurity risks, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and nonemployees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of our operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses for us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of distribution lines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites, and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.We are subject to federal regulatory compliance and proceedings, which increase our risk of regulatory penalties and other sanctions.The Energy Policy Act of 2005 increased FERC’s civil penalty authority for violation of FERC statutes, rules, and orders, including FERC Reliability Standards. FERC can impose 22Table of Contentspenalties of $1 million per violation per day. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Ameren Companies, as owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems and/or electric energy centers, are subject to mandatory NERC reliability standards, including cybersecurity standards. Compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject the Ameren Companies to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. If the Ameren Companies were found not to be in compliance with these mandatory reliability standards or other FERC statutes, rules and orders, the Ameren Companies could incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. FERC also conducts audits and reviews of Ameren Missouri's, Ameren Illinois', and ATXI's accounting records to assess the accuracy of its formula rate-making process and has the ability to require retroactive refunds to customers for previously billed amounts, with interest.Even though agreements have been reached with the state of Missouri and the FERC, the breach of the upper reservoir of Ameren Missouri’s Taum Sauk pumped-storage hydroelectric energy center could continue to have a material adverse effect on Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition.In December 2005, there was a breach of the upper reservoir at Ameren Missouri’s Taum Sauk pumped-storage hydroelectric energy center. This resulted in significant flooding in the local area, which damaged a state park. Ameren Missouri has settled with FERC and the state of Missouri all issues associated with the December 2005 Taum Sauk incident.Ameren Missouri had liability insurance coverage for the Taum Sauk incident, subject to certain limits and deductibles. Currently, Ameren Missouri has filed separate lawsuits against two different liability insurance providers claiming that the insurance companies breached their duty to indemnify Ameren Missouri for the losses experienced from the incident. Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial position, and liquidity could be adversely affected if Ameren Missouri’s remaining liability insurance claims of $68 million as of December 31, 2012, are not paid by insurers.Ameren's Merchant Generation energy centers must compete for the sale of energy and capacity, which exposes that business to price risks.All of Ameren's Merchant Generation energy centers compete for the sale of energy and capacity in the competitive energy markets.To the extent that electricity generated by these energy centers is not under a fixed-price contract to be sold, the revenues and results of operations of these Merchant Generation subsidiaries generally depend on the prices that can be obtained for energy and capacity in Illinois and adjacent markets by Marketing Company.Market prices for energy and capacity may fluctuate substantially over both the short and long term. For example,  market prices for power have decreased over the past several years. Demand for electricity and fuel can fluctuate dramatically, creating periods of substantial undersupply or oversupply. During periods of oversupply, prices might be depressed. Also, at times legislators or regulators with jurisdiction over wholesale and retail energy commodity and transportation rates may impose price limitations, bidding rules, and other mechanisms to address volatility and other issues in these markets.For power products sold in advance, contract prices are influenced both by market conditions and by contract terms such as damage provisions, credit support requirements, and the number of available counterparties interested in contracting for the desired forward period. Depending on differences between market factors at the time of contracting versus current conditions, Marketing Company’s contract portfolio may have average contract prices greater than or less than current market prices, including at the expiration of the contracts, which could affect Ameren’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.Any unhedged forecasted generation will be exposed to market prices at the time of sale. As a result, any new physical or financial power sales may be at price levels lower than previously experienced and lower than the value of existing hedged sales.Among the factors that could influence such prices (all of which are beyond our control to a significant degree) are:•current and future delivered market prices for natural gas, coal, and related transportation costs;•current and forward prices for the sale of electricity;•current and future prices for emission allowances that may be required to operate the fossil-fuel-fired electric energy centers in compliance with environmental laws and permits;•the extent of additional supplies of electric energy from current competitors or new market entrants;•the regulatory and market structures developed for evolving Midwest energy markets, including a capacity market in MISO;•changes enacted by the Illinois legislature, the ICC, the IPA, or other government agencies with respect to power procurement procedures;•the potential for reregulation of generation in some states;•future pricing for, and availability of, services on transmission systems, and the effect of RTOs and export energy transmission constraints, which could limit our ability to sell energy in our markets;•the growth rate or decline in electricity usage as a result of population changes, regional economic conditions, and the implementation of energy-efficiency and conservation programs;•climate conditions in the Midwest market and major natural disasters; and•environmental laws and regulations or delays in their effective dates.23Table of ContentsThere is substantial uncertainty concerning the manner, timing, and terms of our anticipated exit from the Merchant Generation business.In December 2012, Ameren determined that it intends to, and it is probable that it will, exit its Merchant Generation business before the end of the previously estimated useful lives of that business's long-lived assets. However, Ameren's date and method of exit from the Merchant Generation business are currently uncertain. Exit strategies may include the sale of all or parts of Ameren's Merchant Generation business and the restructuring of all or a portion of Ameren's equity position in Genco. Once a plan of disposal is finalized, Ameren's implementation of that plan may result in long-lived asset impairments, disposal-related losses, contingencies, reduction of existing deferred tax assets, and other consequences that are currently unknown to Ameren. Ameren's Merchant Generation business is experiencing a period of declining operating revenues and higher costs with limited available sources of external liquidity, and internal sources of liquidity available only at Ameren's discretion, which could be withheld by Ameren. Merchant Generation, including Genco, may require liquidity support from Ameren, which could adversely affect Ameren's results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Based on projections as of December 31, 2012, of its operating results and cash flows, Genco expects that, by the end of the first quarter of 2013, its interest coverage ratio will be less than the minimum ratio required for the company to borrow additional funds from external, third-party sources. Genco's indenture does not restrict intercompany borrowings from Ameren's non-state-regulated subsidiary money pool. However, borrowings from the money pool are subject to Ameren's control. If a Genco intercompany financing need were to arise, borrowings from the non-state-regulated subsidiary money pool by Genco would be dependent on consideration by Ameren of the facts and circumstances existing at that time. It is probable that during 2013 Genco will seek mid-month liquidity from Ameren to support the timing of Genco's cash flows. Ameren may decide not to provide funding to Genco should a financing need arise in 2013 or in the future. Genco also has significant debt maturities beginning in 2018. If Genco is unable to meet its liquidity needs, this could result in Genco accelerating asset sales, or restructuring. Genco expects to sell certain of its long-lived assets, either individually or through its put option with AERG, but the proceeds realized from any asset sale may not be adequate to satisfy Genco's liquidity needs.Ameren's December 2012 decision that the Merchant Generation segment is no longer a core component of its future strategy could adversely affect Ameren's results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Ameren has begun planning to reduce, and ultimately to eliminate, the reliance of the Merchant Generation segment, including Genco, on Ameren's financial support and shared service support. Ameren's exit date from the Merchant Generation segment is uncertain. By requiring the  Merchant Generation segment to duplicate support services, Ameren may reduce the synergies between its business segments. Further, counterparties may not extend credit to the Merchant Generation segment, which could limit Merchant Generation revenue opportunities and may result in a need for additional liquidity to operate the business. Also, Ameren has supplied guarantees to support Marketing Company's creditworthiness with counterparties. Under these guarantees, Ameren may have to fulfill Marketing Company obligations if Marketing Company becomes unable to satisfy the counterparty obligation with its own liquidity. Ameren may also be required to supply liquidity and to contribute capital to AERG should Genco exercise its put option agreement relating to three natural-gas-fired energy centers. See Note 14 - Related Party Transactions under Part II, Item 8, of this report for additional information about the put option agreement and Ameren parent guarantees.Ameren Missouri’s ownership and operation of a nuclear energy center creates business, financial, and waste disposal risks.Ameren Missouri’s ownership of the Callaway energy center subjects it to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the following:•potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials;•the lack of a permanent waste storage site;•limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the Callaway energy center or other United States nuclear operations;•uncertainties with respect to contingencies and retrospective premium assessments relating to claims at the Callaway energy center or any other United States nuclear energy center;•public and governmental concerns over the adequacy of security at nuclear energy centers;•uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear energy centers at the end of their licensed lives (Ameren Missouri has submitted an application with the NRC to extend the Callaway energy center’s operating license from 2024 to 2044);•limited availability of fuel supply; and•costly and extended outages for scheduled or unscheduled maintenance and refueling.The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety requirements for nuclear energy centers. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or to shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated from time to time by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear energy centers such as Ameren Missouri’s. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could have a material but indeterminable adverse effect on Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial condition, and 24Table of Contentsliquidity. A major incident at a nuclear energy center anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. An incident at a nuclear energy center anywhere in the world also could cause the NRC to impose additional conditions or requirements on the industry, which could increase costs and result in additional capital expenditures. For example, the earthquake in 2011 that affected nuclear energy centers in Japan has resulted in regulatory changes in the United States, and may result in future regulatory changes, that may impose additional costs on all United States nuclear energy centers.Our energy risk management strategies may not be effective in managing fuel and electricity procurement and pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities or increased volatility in our earnings and cash flows.We are exposed to changes in market prices for natural gas, fuel, power, emission allowances, renewable energy credits, and transmission congestion. Prices for natural gas, fuel, power, emission allowances and renewable energy credits may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time, and at other times exhibit sustained increases or decreases, and expose us to commodity price risk. We use short-term and long-term purchase and sales contracts in addition to derivatives such as forward contracts, futures contracts, options, and swaps to manage these risks. We attempt to manage our risk associated with these activities through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. We cannot ensure that these strategies will be successful in managing our pricing risk or that they will not result in net liabilities because of future volatility in these markets.Although we routinely enter into contracts to hedge our exposure to the risks of demand and changes in commodity prices, we do not hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. Furthermore, our ability to hedge our exposure to commodity price volatility depends on liquid commodity markets. To the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time. To the extent that unhedged positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Our facilities are considered critical energy infrastructure and may therefore be targets of acts of terrorism.Like other electric and natural gas utilities and other merchant electric generators, our energy centers, fuel storage facilities, and transmission and distribution facilities may be targets of terrorist activities, including cybersecurity attacks, which could result in disruption of our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy products. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant additional costs for repair, which could adversely affect on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Our businesses are dependent on our ability to access  the capital markets successfully. We may not have access to sufficient capital in the amounts and at the times needed.We use short-term and long-term debt as a significant source of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not satisfied by our operating cash flow, including requirements related to future environmental compliance and capital expenditures required by the IEIMA. As a result of rising costs and increased capital and operations and maintenance expenditures, coupled with regulatory lag, we expect to continue to rely on short-term and long-term debt financing. The inability to raise debt or equity capital on favorable terms, or at all, could negatively affect our ability to maintain and to expand our businesses. After assessing our current operating performance, liquidity, and credit ratings, we believe that Ameren and its rate-regulated businesses will continue to have access to the capital markets. However, events beyond our control, such as a recession or extreme volatility in global debt or equity capital and credit markets, may create uncertainty that could increase our cost of capital or impair or eliminate our ability to access the debt, equity, or credit markets, including our ability to draw on bank credit facilities. Based on projections as of December 31, 2012, of its operating results and cash flows, Genco expects that, by the end of the first quarter of 2013, its interest coverage ratio will be less than the minimum ratio required for the company to borrow additional funds from external, third-party sources. An inability to raise debt could adversely impact Genco's liquidity. Any adverse change in Ameren's or in its subsidiaries' credit ratings may reduce access to capital and trigger additional collateral postings and prepayments. Such changes may also increase the cost of borrowing and fuel, power and natural gas supply, among other things, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Certain of the Ameren's subsidiaries rely, in part, on Ameren for access to capital. Circumstances that limit Ameren’s access to capital, including those relating to its other subsidiaries, could impair its ability to provide those Ameren subsidiaries with needed capital. In addition, borrowings directly from Ameren and from the utility and non-state-regulated subsidiary money pools are subject to Ameren’s control and any borrowings are dependent on consideration by Ameren of the facts and circumstances existing at the time of the borrowing request.Ameren’s holding company structure could limit its ability to pay common stock dividends and to service its debt obligations.Ameren is a holding company; therefore, its primary assets are the common stock of its subsidiaries. As a result, Ameren’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the earnings of its subsidiaries and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer funds to Ameren. Similarly, Ameren’s ability to service its debt obligations is also dependent upon the earnings of operating subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings and other payments, including payments of principal and interest under intercompany indebtedness. The payment of dividends to Ameren by its subsidiaries in turn depends on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. Ameren’s subsidiaries are 25Table of Contentsseparate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any dividends or make any other distributions (except for payments required pursuant to the terms of intercompany borrowing arrangements and cash payments and receipts under the tax allocation agreement) to Ameren. Certain of the Ameren Companies’ financing agreements and articles of incorporation, in addition to certain statutory and regulatory requirements, may impose restrictions on the ability of such Ameren Companies to transfer funds to Ameren in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances.Failure to retain and attract key officers and other skilled professional and technical employees could adversely affect on our operations.Our businesses depend upon our ability to employ and retain key officers and other skilled professional and technical employees. A significant portion of our workforce is nearing retirement, including many employees with specialized skills such as maintaining and servicing our electric and natural gas infrastructure and operating our energy centers.ITEM 1B