Item 1A, and Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, and Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.13Table of ContentsOPERATING STATISTICSThe following tables present key electric and natural gas operating statistics for Ameren for the past three years:Electric Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31,2013 2012 2011Electric Sales – kilowatthours (in millions):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential13,562 13,385 13,867Commercial14,634 14,575 14,743Industrial8,709 8,660 8,691Other125 126 127Native load subtotal37,030 36,746 37,428Off-system and wholesale6,128 7,293 10,715Subtotal43,158 44,039 48,143Ameren Illinois:     Residential     Power supply and delivery service5,474 9,507 11,771Delivery service only6,310 2,103 77Commercial     Power supply and delivery service2,606 2,985 3,662Delivery service only9,541 9,175 8,561Industrial     Power supply and delivery service1,667 1,595 1,502Delivery service only10,861 11,753 11,360Other522 523 529Native load subtotal36,981 37,641 37,462Eliminate affiliate sales(82) — (17)Ameren total80,057 81,680 85,588Electric Operating Revenues (in millions):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential$1,428 $1,297 $1,272Commercial1,216 1,088 1,084Industrial491 435 438Other61 104 76Native load subtotal$3,196 $2,924 $2,870Off-system and wholesale183 208 352Subtotal$3,379 $3,132 $3,222Ameren Illinois:     Residential     Power supply and delivery service$501 $961 $1,194Delivery service only282 90 3Commercial     Power supply and delivery service215 254 350Delivery service only184 177 157Industrial     Power supply and delivery service70 57 65Delivery service only44 46 43Other165 154 128Native load subtotal$1,461 $1,739 $1,940Eliminate affiliate revenues and other(8) (14) (15)Ameren total$4,832 $4,857 $5,14714Table of ContentsElectric Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31,2013 2012 2011Electric Generation – Ameren Missouri – megawatthours (in millions)43.2 44.7 48.8Price per ton of delivered coal (average) – Ameren Missouri$36.19 $34.21 $30.57Ameren source of energy supply:     Coal70.2% 65.1% 66.5%Nuclear10.5 12.4 9.4Hydroelectric1.6 1.1 1.3Natural gas1.1 2.7 1.1Methane gas0.1 — —Purchased – Wind0.4 0.4 0.3Purchased – Other16.1 18.3 21.4 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%Gas Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31,2013 2012 2011Natural Gas Sales (millions of dekatherms):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential8 6 7Commercial4 3 3Industrial1 1 1Transport6 6 5Subtotal19 16 16Ameren Illinois:     Residential62 49 56Commercial21 17 21Industrial6 5 5Transport and other87 86 80Subtotal176 157 162Ameren total195 173 178Natural Gas Operating Revenues (in millions)     Ameren Missouri:     Residential$102 $85 $96Commercial42 36 42Industrial8 8 9Transport and other9 10 9Subtotal$161 $139 $156Ameren Illinois:     Residential$611 $547 $588Commercial185 172 195Industrial26 24 30Transport and other25 43 33Subtotal$847 $786 $846Eliminate affiliate revenues(2) (1) (1)Ameren total$1,006 $924 $1,00115Table of ContentsAVAILABLE INFORMATIONThe Ameren Companies make available free of charge through Ameren’s website (www.ameren.com) their annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents, and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably possible after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also available through an Internet website maintained by the SEC (www.sec.gov). Ameren also uses its website as a channel of distribution of material information relating to the Ameren Companies. Financial and other material information regarding the Ameren Companies is routinely posted to and accessible at Ameren’s website.The Ameren Companies also make available free of charge through Ameren’s website the charters of Ameren’s board of directors’ audit and risk committee, human resources committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, finance committee, and nuclear oversight and environmental committee; the corporate governance guidelines; a policy regarding communications to the board of directors; a policy and procedures with respect to related-person transactions; a code of ethics for principal executive and senior financial officers; a code of business conduct applicable to all directors, officers and employees; and a director nomination policy that applies to the Ameren Companies. The information on Ameren’s website, or any other website referenced in this report, is not incorporated by reference into this report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSInvestors should review carefully the following material risk factors and the other information contained in this report. The risks that the Ameren Companies face are not limited to those in this section. There may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may adversely affect the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of the Ameren Companies. See Forward-Looking Statements above and Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, of this report.The Ameren Companies are subject to extensive regulation of their businesses, which could adversely affect their results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The Ameren Companies are subject to, or affected by, extensive federal, state, and local regulation. This extensive regulatory framework, some but not all of which is more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other matters, the electric and natural gas utility industries; rate and cost structure of utilities; operation of nuclear energy centers; construction and operation of generation, transmission, and distribution facilities; acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities; transmission reliability; and present or prospective wholesale and  retail competition. The Ameren Companies must address in their planning and management of operations the effects of existing and proposed laws and regulations and potential changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by federal and state legislatures, RTOs, utility regulators, and taxing authorities. Significant changes in the nature of the regulation of the Ameren Companies’ businesses could require changes to their business planning and management of their businesses and could adversely affect their results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Failure of the Ameren Companies to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals in a timely manner, failure to obtain necessary licenses or permits from regulatory authorities, new or modified laws, regulations, standards, interpretations, or other legal requirements, or increased compliance costs could adversely impact the Ameren Companies’ results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The electric and natural gas rates that Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois are allowed to charge are determined through regulatory proceedings, which are subject to intervention and appeal, and are subject to legislative actions, which are largely outside of their control. Any events that prevent Ameren Missouri or Ameren Illinois from recovering their respective costs or from earning adequate returns on their investments could adversely affect the Ameren Companies' results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The rates that Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois are allowed to charge for their utility services significantly influence the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of these companies and Ameren. The electric and natural gas utility industries are extensively regulated. The utility rates charged to Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois customers are determined, in large part, by governmental entities, including the MoPSC, the ICC, and FERC. Decisions by these entities are influenced by many factors, including the cost of providing service, the prudency of expenditures, the quality of service, regulatory staff knowledge and experience, customer intervention, economic conditions, public policy, and social and political views. Decisions made by these governmental entities regarding rates are largely outside of Ameren Missouri’s and Ameren Illinois’ control. Ameren's utility operations are exposed to regulatory lag to varying degrees by jurisdiction, which, if unmitigated, has a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Rate orders are also subject to appeal, which creates additional uncertainty as to the rates Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois will ultimately be allowed to charge for their services.Ameren Missouri electric and natural gas utility rates and Ameren Illinois natural gas utility rates are typically established in regulatory proceedings that take up to 11 months to complete. Rates established in those proceedings for Ameren Missouri are primarily based on historical costs and revenues. Natural gas rates established in those proceedings for Ameren Illinois may be based on historical or estimated future costs and revenues. Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may not match its costs at any given time. Rates include an allowed rate of return on 16Table of Contentsinvestments determined by the regulators. Although rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all the costs of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process will result in rates that will produce full recovery of such costs or an adequate return on those investments.In years when capital investments and operations costs rise while customer usage declines, Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois may not be able to earn the allowed return established by their state commissions. This could result in the deferral or elimination of planned capital investments, which would reduce the rate base investments from which the utility operations earn a rate of return. Additionally, increasing rates for our customers could result in additional regulatory and legislative actions, as well as competitive and political pressures, which could adversely affect the Ameren Companies' results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Through its participation in the performance-based formula ratemaking process established pursuant to the IEIMA, Ameren Illinois’ return on equity for its electric distribution business will be directly correlated to yields on United States treasury bonds. Additionally, Ameren Illinois will be subject to an annual ICC prudence review, and Ameren Illinois will be required to achieve performance objectives, increase capital spending levels, and meet job creation targets. Failure to meet these requirements could adversely affect Ameren Illinois' results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Ameren Illinois is participating in the performance-based formula ratemaking process established pursuant to the IEIMA for its electric distribution business. The ICC annually reviews Ameren Illinois’ performance-based rate filings under the IEIMA for reasonableness and prudency. If the ICC were to conclude that Ameren Illinois’ incurred costs were not prudently incurred, the ICC would disallow recovery of such costs.The return on equity component of the formula rate is equal to the average for the calendar year of the monthly yields of 30-year United States treasury bonds plus 580 basis points. Therefore, Ameren Illinois’ annual return on equity under the formula ratemaking process for its electric distribution business is directly correlated to yields on such bonds, which are outside of Ameren Illinois’ control.Ameren Illinois is also subject to performance standards. Failure to achieve the standards would result in a reduction in the company’s allowed return on equity calculated under the formula. The IEIMA provides for return on equity penalties totaling 30 basis points in 2013 through 2015, 34 basis points in 2016 through 2018, and 38 basis points in 2019 through 2022 if the performance standards are not met.Between 2012 and 2021, Ameren Illinois is required to invest $625 million in capital projects incremental to Ameren Illinois’ average electric delivery capital projects for calendar  years 2008 through 2010 to modernize its distribution system. Ameren Illinois is subject to monetary penalties if 450 additional jobs are not created in Illinois during the peak program year.The formula ratemaking process would terminate if the average residential rate increases by more than 2.5% annually from June 2011 through May 2014. The average residential rate includes generation service, which is outside of Ameren Illinois’ control, as Ameren Illinois is required to purchase all of its power through procurement processes administered by the IPA. If the performance-based formula rate process is terminated, Ameren Illinois would be required to establish future rates through a traditional rate proceeding with the ICC, which might not result in rates that produce a full or timely recovery of costs or an adequate return on investments. Unless it is extended, the IEIMA formula ratemaking process expires in 2017.Customers’, legislators’ and regulators’ opinions of us are affected by our ability to provide reliable utility service to our customers. Failure to provide such reliable utility service could result in customers and regulators having a negative opinion of us, which, in turn, could adversely affect the Ameren Companies' results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Ameren’s utility subsidiaries provide utility service to 2.4 million electric customers and 0.9 million natural gas customers. Service interruptions due to failures of equipment or facilities as a result of severe or destructive weather or other causes, and the ability of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois to promptly respond to such failures, can affect customer satisfaction. In addition to system reliability issues, the success of modernization efforts, such as those planned for Ameren Illinois’ electric and natural gas delivery systems, and other public actions of the Ameren Companies can affect customer satisfaction. Rate increases and volatility of rates can also affect customer satisfaction.If customers, legislators or regulators have a negative opinion of us and our utility services, this could result in increased regulatory oversight of the Ameren Companies and could impact the returns on common equity we are allowed to earn. Additionally, negative opinions of the Ameren Companies could make it more difficult for our utilities to achieve favorable legislative or regulatory outcomes. Any of these consequences could adversely affect the Ameren Companies’ results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Energy conservation, energy efficiency, distributed generation, and other factors that reduce energy demand could adversely affect the Ameren Companies’ results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed or introduced requirements and incentives to reduce energy consumption. Conservation and energy efficiency programs are designed to reduce energy demand. Unless there is a regulatory solution ensuring recovery, declining usage will result in an under-recovery of fixed costs at our rate-regulated businesses. Ameren Missouri, even with the implementation of energy 17Table of Contentsefficiency programs under the MEEIA, is exposed to declining usage losses from energy efficiency efforts not related to its specific programs as well as distributed generation sources such as solar panels. Macroeconomic factors resulting in low economic growth or contraction within the Ameren Companies' service territories could also reduce energy demand.We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. Significant capital expenditures are required to achieve and maintain compliance with their standards. Failure to meet these standards could result in closure of facilities, alterations to the manner in which these facilities operate, increased operating costs, adverse impacts to our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity, or exposure to fines and liabilities.We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations enforced by federal, state, and local authorities. From the beginning phases of siting and development to the operation of existing or new electric generating, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas storage, transmission and distribution facilities, our activities involve compliance with diverse environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations address emissions; water discharges and usage; impacts to air, land, and water; noise; protected natural and cultural resources (such as wetlands, endangered species, and other protected wildlife, and archaeological and historical resources); and chemical and waste handling. Complex and lengthy processes are required to obtain approvals, permits, or licenses for new, existing, or modified facilities. Additionally, the use and handling of various chemicals or hazardous materials (including wastes) requires release prevention plans and emergency response procedures.We are also subject to liability under environmental laws that address the remediation of environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us or by our predecessors, as well as property contaminated by hazardous substances that we generated. Such sites include MGP sites and third-party sites, such as landfills. Additionally, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege injury from exposure to hazardous materials or seek to compel remediation of environmental contamination or recover damages resulting from that contamination.The EPA is developing environmental regulations that will have a significant impact on the electric utility industry over time. These regulations could be particularly burdensome for certain companies, including Ameren Missouri, that operate coal-fired energy centers. These new regulations may be litigated, so the timing of their ultimate implementation and our required compliance is uncertain.Ameren is also subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations. The EPA is engaged in an enforcement initiative to determine whether coal-fired energy centers failed to comply with the requirements of the NSR and NSPS provisions under the Clean Air Act when the energy centers implemented modifications. In January 2011,  the Department of Justice on behalf of the EPA filed a complaint against Ameren Missouri in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The EPA’s complaint, as amended in October 2013, alleges that in performing projects at its Rush Island coal-fired energy center in 2007 and 2010, Ameren Missouri violated provisions of the Clean Air Act and Missouri law. In January 2012, the United States District Court granted, in part, Ameren Missouri’s motion to dismiss various aspects of the EPA’s penalty claims. The EPA’s claims for unspecified injunctive relief remain. Trial in this matter is currently scheduled to begin in January 2015. An outcome in this matter adverse to Ameren Missouri could require substantial capital expenditures and the payment of substantial penalties, neither of which can be determined at this time. Such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions.Ameren and Ameren Missouri have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation. New environmental regulations, revised environmental regulations, enforcement initiatives, or legislation could result in a significant increase in capital expenditures and operating costs, decreased revenues, increased financing requirements, penalties, or fines, or closure of facilities for Ameren and Ameren Missouri. Actions required to ensure that our facilities and operations are in compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be prohibitively expensive if the costs are not recovered through rates. As a result, environmental laws could also require us to close or to significantly alter the operation of our energy centers, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Costs incurred by Ameren Missouri to ensure that its facilities are in compliance with environmental laws and regulations would be eligible for recovery in rates over time, subject to MoPSC approval in a rate proceeding. We are unable to predict the ultimate impact of these matters on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Future limits on greenhouse gas emissions may require Ameren Missouri to incur significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs, which, if excessive and not recoverable through rate proceedings, could result in the closures of coal-fired energy centers, impairment of assets, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.State and federal authorities, including the United States Congress, have considered initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Potential impacts from any such legislation or regulation could vary, depending upon proposed CO2 emission limits, the timing of implementation of those limits, the method of distributing any allowances, the degree to which offsets are allowed and available, and provisions for cost-containment measures, such as a “safety valve” provision that provides a maximum price for emission allowances. Emissions of greenhouse gases vary among our energy centers, but coal-fired energy centers are significant sources of CO2. The enactment of a law that restricts emissions of CO2 or requires energy centers to purchase allowances for CO2 emission could result in a significant increase in rates for electricity, and accordingly, in 18Table of Contentshousehold costs. The burden could fall particularly hard on electricity consumers and the economy in the Midwest because of the region’s reliance on electricity generated by coal-fired energy centers.In June 2013, the Obama administration announced that it had directed the EPA to set CO2 emissions standards for both new and existing power plants. The EPA published proposed regulations in January 2014 that would set revised CO2 emissions standards for new electricity generating units. The proposed standards would establish separate emissions limits for new natural gas-fired plants and new coal-fired plants. In addition, the Obama administration directed the EPA to propose a CO2 emissions standard for existing power plants by June 2014 and to finalize such standards by June 2015. Future federal or state legislation or regulations that mandate limits on the emission of greenhouse gases would likely result in significant increases in our capital expenditures and operating costs, which, in turn, could lead to increased liquidity needs and higher financing costs. Moreover, if Ameren Missouri requests recovery of these costs through rates, its regulators could deny some or all of these costs, or prevent timely recovery of them. Excessive costs to comply with future legislation or regulations that are not recoverable through rate proceedings might force Ameren Missouri to close coal-fired energy centers earlier than planned, which would lead to impairment of assets and reduced revenues. As a result, greenhouse gas emission limits could have a material adverse impact on Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The construction of, and capital improvements to, the Ameren Companies' electric and natural gas utility infrastructure involve substantial risks. These risks include escalating costs, unsatisfactory performance by the projects when completed, the inability to complete projects as scheduled, cost disallowances by regulators, and the inability to earn an adequate return on invested capital, any of which could result in higher costs and the closure of facilities.The Ameren Companies expect to incur significant capital expenditures to comply with existing and known environmental regulations and to make investments in their electric and natural gas utility infrastructure. Ameren estimates it will incur up to $8.7 billion (Ameren Missouri - up to $3.5 billion; Ameren Illinois - up to $3.7 billion; other - up to $1.5 billion) of capital expenditures during the period 2014 through 2018. These estimates include allowance for funds used during construction. Investments in Ameren’s rate-regulated operations are expected to be recoverable from ratepayers, but are subject to prudency reviews and regulatory lag. The ability of the Ameren Companies to complete construction projects successfully within projected estimates is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. These variables include, but are not limited to, project management expertise and escalating costs for materials, labor,  and environmental compliance. Delays in obtaining permits, shortages in materials and qualified labor, suppliers and contractors who do not perform as required under their contracts, changes in the scope and timing of projects, the inability to raise capital on reasonable terms, or other events beyond our control that could occur may materially affect the schedule, cost, and performance of these projects. With respect to capital expenditures for pollution control equipment, there is a risk that energy centers will not be permitted to continue to operate if pollution control equipment is not installed by prescribed deadlines or does not perform as expected. Should any such pollution control equipment not be installed on time or perform as expected, the Ameren Companies could be subject to additional costs and to the loss of their investment in the project or facility. All of these risks may adversely affect the Ameren Companies’ results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.As of December 31, 2013, Ameren Missouri had capitalized $69 million of costs incurred to license additional nuclear generation at its Callaway energy site. If efforts are abandoned or management concludes it is probable the costs incurred will be disallowed in rates, a charge to earnings would be recognized in the period in which that determination was made.We may not be able to execute our electric transmission investment plans and realize the expected return on those investments.Ameren, through ATXI and Ameren Illinois, is allocating significant additional capital resources to electric transmission investments. This allocation of capital resources is based on FERC's regulatory framework and a rate of return on common equity that is currently higher than allowed by our state commissions. However, the FERC regulatory framework and rate of return is subject to change. The regulatory framework may not be as favorable, or the rate of return may be lower, in the future. Currently, the FERC-allowed return on common equity for MISO transmission owners is 12.38%. In 2013, a FERC administrative law judge issued an initial decision stating that the current 11.14% allowed rate of return for New England transmission owners was unjust and unreasonable. FERC has not issued its final order in this case, and it is under no deadline to do so. In November 2013, a complaint case was filed with FERC seeking a reduction in the allowed return on common equity, as well as a limit on the common equity ratio, under the MISO tariff. This complaint case could result in a reduction to Ameren Illinois' and ATXI's allowed return on common equity. That reduction could also result in a refund for transmission service revenues earned after the filing of the complaint case in November 2013. As in the New England transmission owners' case, discussed above, FERC has not issued an order in this case, and it is under no deadline to do so. A significant portion of our planned electric transmission investments consists of three separate projects to be constructed by ATXI, which have been approved by MISO as multi-value projects. The largest of the three projects is the Illinois Rivers project. The total investment in these three projects is expected to be $1.4 billion. The last of these projects is expected to be 19Table of Contentscompleted in 2019. A failure by Ameren to complete all of these three projects on time and within projected cost estimates could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.  FERC has issued multiple orders, which are subject to ongoing litigation, eliminating the right of first refusal for electric utilities to construct certain new transmission projects within their service territory. If these orders are upheld by the courts, Ameren might need to compete to build certain future electric transmission projects in its subsidiaries' service territories. Such competition could prevent Ameren from investing in future electric transmission projects to the extent desired.Our electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The Ameren Companies’ financial performance depends on the successful operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. Operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities involves many risks, including:•facility shutdowns due to operator error or a failure of equipment or processes;•longer-than-anticipated maintenance outages;•older generating equipment that may require significant expenditures to operate at peak efficiency;•disruptions in the delivery of fuel or lack of adequate inventories, including ultra-low-sulfur coal used for Ameren Missouri’s compliance with environmental regulations;•lack of water required for cooling plant operations;•labor disputes;•inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements, including those relating to environmental laws;•disruptions in the delivery of electricity that impact our customers;•handling and storage of fossil-fuel combustion byproducts, such as CCR;•unusual or adverse weather conditions, including severe storms, droughts, floods, tornadoes, solar flares, and electromagnetic pulses;•a workplace accident that might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage, or environmental damage;•cybersecurity risk, including loss of operational control of our energy centers and our electric transmission and distribution systems and/or loss of data, such as utility customer data, account information, and intellectual property through insider or outsider actions;•catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, pandemic health events, or other similar occurrences;•limitations on amounts of insurance available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operating our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities; and•other unanticipated operations and maintenance expenses and liabilities. Ameren Missouri’s ownership and operation of a nuclear energy center creates business, financial, and waste disposal risks.Ameren Missouri’s ownership of the Callaway energy center subjects it to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the following:•potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials;•the lack of a permanent waste storage site;•limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the Callaway energy center or other United States nuclear operations;•uncertainties with respect to contingencies and retrospective premium assessments relating to claims at the Callaway energy center or any other United States nuclear energy center;•public and governmental concerns about the adequacy of security at nuclear energy centers;•uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear energy centers at the end of their licensed lives;•limited availability of fuel supply; and•costly and extended outages for scheduled or unscheduled maintenance and refueling.The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety requirements for nuclear energy centers. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or to shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated from time to time by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear energy centers such as Ameren Missouri’s. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could have a material but indeterminable adverse effect on Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. A major incident at a nuclear energy center anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. An incident at a nuclear energy center anywhere in the world also could cause the NRC to impose additional conditions or requirements on the industry, which could increase costs and result in additional capital expenditures. For example, the earthquake in 2011 that affected nuclear energy centers in Japan has resulted in regulatory changes in the United States, and may result in future regulatory changes that may impose additional costs on all nuclear energy centers in the United States. Specific to seismic risk, the NRC may require Callaway to further evaluate the impact of an earthquake on its operations, which could lead to the installation of additional capital equipment to comply with revised NRC standards.Our natural gas distribution and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs that could adversely affect 20Table of Contentsour results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Inherent in our natural gas distribution and storage activities are a variety of hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, mechanical problems and cybersecurity risks, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in serious injury, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of our operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses for us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of distribution lines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, business centers, industrial sites, and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.We are subject to federal regulatory compliance and proceedings, which increase our risk of regulatory penalties and other sanctions.The Energy Policy Act of 2005 increased FERC’s civil penalty authority for violation of FERC statutes, rules, and orders, including with respect to mandatory NERC reliability standards. FERC can impose penalties of $1 million per violation per day. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Ameren Companies, as owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems and/or electric energy centers, are subject to mandatory NERC reliability standards, including cybersecurity standards. Compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject the Ameren Companies to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. If the Ameren Companies were found not to be in compliance with these mandatory reliability standards or FERC statutes, rules and orders, the Ameren Companies could incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. FERC also conducts audits and reviews of Ameren Missouri's, Ameren Illinois', and ATXI's accounting records to assess the accuracy of its formula rate-making process and has the ability to require retroactive refunds to customers for previously billed amounts, with interest.Even though agreements were reached with the state of Missouri and FERC, the breach of the upper reservoir of Ameren Missouri’s Taum Sauk pumped-storage hydroelectric energy center could continue to have a material adverse effect on Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition.In December 2005, there was a breach of the upper reservoir at Ameren Missouri’s Taum Sauk pumped-storage hydroelectric energy center. This resulted in significant flooding in the local area, which damaged a state park. Ameren Missouri settled with the state of Missouri and FERC all issues associated with the December 2005 Taum Sauk incident.Ameren Missouri had liability insurance coverage for the Taum Sauk incident, subject to certain limits and deductibles.  Ameren Missouri filed separate lawsuits against two different liability insurance providers claiming that the insurance companies breached their duty to indemnify Ameren Missouri for the losses experienced from the incident. Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial position, and liquidity could be adversely affected if Ameren Missouri’s remaining liability insurance claims of $68 million as of December 31, 2013, are not paid by insurers.Our businesses are dependent on our ability to access the capital markets successfully. We may not have access to sufficient capital in the amounts and at the times needed.We rely on short-term and long-term debt as significant sources of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not satisfied by our operating cash flow as well as to refinance long-term debt. The inability to raise debt or equity capital on reasonable terms, or at all, could negatively affect our ability to maintain and to expand our businesses. Events beyond our control, such as a recession or extreme volatility in the debt, equity, or credit markets, may create uncertainty that could increase our cost of capital or impair or eliminate our ability to access the debt, equity, or credit markets, including our ability to draw on bank credit facilities. Any adverse change in the Ameren Companies' credit ratings may reduce access to capital and trigger additional collateral postings and prepayments. Such changes may also increase the cost of borrowing and fuel, power and natural gas supply, among other things, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Certain of the Ameren's subsidiaries, such as ATXI, rely on Ameren for access to capital. Circumstances that limit Ameren’s access to capital could impair its ability to provide those subsidiaries with needed capital. Ameren’s holding company structure could limit its ability to pay common stock dividends and to service its debt obligations.Ameren is a holding company; therefore, its primary assets are the common stock of its subsidiaries. As a result, Ameren’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the earnings of its subsidiaries and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer funds to Ameren. Similarly, Ameren’s ability to service its debt obligations is also dependent upon the earnings of operating subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings and other payments, including payments of principal and interest under intercompany indebtedness. The payment of dividends to Ameren by its subsidiaries in turn depends on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. Ameren’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any dividends or make any other distributions (except for payments required pursuant to the terms of intercompany borrowing arrangements and cash payments and receipts under the tax allocation agreement) to Ameren. Certain of the Ameren Companies’ financing agreements and articles of incorporation, in addition to certain statutory and regulatory requirements, may impose restrictions on the ability of such Ameren Companies to transfer funds to Ameren in the form 21Table of Contentsof cash dividends, loans, or advances.Dynegy’s or its subsidiaries' failure to satisfy certain of their indemnity and other obligations to Ameren in connection with the divestiture of New AER to IPH could have a material adverse impact on Ameren’s results of operations, financial position or liquidity.On December 2, 2013, Ameren completed the divestiture of New AER to IPH. The transaction agreement between Ameren and IPH requires Ameren, for up to 24 months after the closing of the divestiture of New AER, to maintain its financial obligations in existence as of the date of the closing under all credit support arrangements or obligations with respect to New AER and its subsidiaries. Ameren must also provide any additional credit support that may be contractually required pursuant to any of the contracts of New AER, and its subsidiaries as of the closing. IPH, New AER and its subsidiaries and Dynegy have agreed to indemnify Ameren for certain losses relating to this credit support. IPH’s indemnification obligations are secured by certain AERG and Genco assets. However, these indemnification obligations and security interests might not cover all losses incurred by Ameren in connection with this credit support. In addition, Dynegy emerged from its Chapter 11 bankruptcy case on October 1, 2012, and, as of December 31, 2013, Dynegy’s credit ratings were sub-investment grade. IPH, New AER and its subsidiaries also do not have investment grade credit ratings. Dynegy, IPH, New AER, or their subsidiaries might not be able to pay their indemnity and other obligations under the transaction agreement, Marketing Company’s note to Ameren, or Dynegy’s limited guarantee to Ameren, which could have a material adverse impact on Ameren’s results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. As of December 31, 2013, the balance of the Marketing Company note to Ameren was $18 million. As of December 31, 2013, Ameren provided $190 million in guarantees and letters of credit totaling $11 million relating to its credit support of New AER.Government challenges to the tax positions taken by the Ameren Companies, as well as tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could adversely affect the Ameren Companies’ results of operations and cash flows.The Ameren Companies are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These obligations can include income tax and taxes other than income tax, many of which involve complex matters that ultimately could be determined by the courts. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes for tax positions that may be challenged by tax authorities. The Ameren Companies also estimate their ability to use tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards and tax credits that are recorded as deferred tax assets on their balance sheets. A disallowance of these tax benefits could have a material adverse impact on our results of operation, financial position, and liquidity.The Ameren Companies’ operations are subject to acts of sabotage, war, terrorism, cyber attacks, and other  intentionally disruptive acts.Like other electric and natural gas utilities, our energy centers, fuel storage facilities, transmission and distribution facilities, and information systems may be targets of terrorist activities, including cyber attacks, which could disrupt our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy products. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant additional costs for repair, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.A security breach of the Ameren Companies’ physical assets or information systems could affect the reliability of the transmission and distribution system, disrupt electric generation, and/or subject the Ameren Companies to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information, including sensitive customer and employee data. If a significant breach occurred, the reputation of the Ameren Companies could be adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, and/or the Ameren Companies could be subject to legal claims, any of which could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant additional costs for rectifying the impacts of such a breach. The Ameren Companies’ use of smart meters throughout their service territories may increase the risk of damage from an intentional disruption of the system by third parties. In addition, new or updated security regulations could require changes in current measures taken by the Ameren Companies and could adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. Increasing costs associated with our defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits could adversely affect our financial position and liquidity.We offer defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans that cover substantially all of our employees. Assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates, and other actuarial matters have a significant impact on our customers' rates and our plan funding requirements. Ameren expects to fund its pension plans at a level equal to the greater of the pension expense or the legally required minimum contribution. Considering Ameren’s assumptions at December 31, 2013, its investment performance in 2013, and its pension funding policy, Ameren expects to make annual contributions of $20 million to $100 million in each of the next five years, with aggregate estimated contributions of $270 million. We expect Ameren Missouri’s and Ameren Illinois’ portion of the future funding requirements to be 52% and 47%, respectively. These amounts are estimates. They may change with actual investment performance, changes in interest rates, changes in our assumptions, changes in government regulations, and any voluntary contributions.In addition to the costs of our retirement plans, the costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees have increased in recent years. We believe that our employee benefit costs, including costs of health care plans for our employees and former employees, will continue to rise. The increasing costs and 22Table of Contentsfunding requirements associated with our defined benefit retirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits could increase our financing needs and otherwise materially adversely affect our financial position and liquidity.Failure to retain and attract key officers and other skilled professional and technical employees could adversely affect our operations.Our businesses depend upon our ability to employ and retain key officers and other skilled professional and technical employees. A significant portion of our workforce is nearing retirement, including many employees with specialized skills such as maintaining and servicing our electric and natural gas infrastructure and operating our energy centers.ITEM 1B