Item 1A, and Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, and Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.14Table of ContentsOPERATING STATISTICSThe following tables present key electric and natural gas operating statistics for Ameren for the past three years:Electric Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31,2014 2013 2012Electric Sales – kilowatthours (in millions):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential13,649 13,562 13,385Commercial14,649 14,634 14,575Industrial8,600 8,709 8,660Off-system6,170 6,128 7,293Other124 125 126Ameren Missouri total43,192 43,158 44,039Ameren Illinois:     Residential     Power supply and delivery service4,662 5,474 9,507Delivery service only7,222 6,310 2,103Commercial     Power supply and delivery service2,535 2,606 2,985Delivery service only9,643 9,541 9,175Industrial     Power supply and delivery service1,741 1,667 1,595Delivery service only10,576 10,861 11,753Other518 522 523Ameren Illinois total36,897 36,981 37,641Eliminate affiliate sales(67) (82) —Ameren total80,022 80,057 81,680Electric Operating Revenues (in millions):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential$1,417 $1,428 $1,297Commercial1,203 1,216 1,088Industrial475 491 435Off-system173 183 208Other120 61 104Ameren Missouri total$3,388 $3,379 $3,132Ameren Illinois:     Residential     Power supply and delivery service$468 $501 $961Delivery service only308 282 90Commercial     Power supply and delivery service233 215 254Delivery service only185 184 177Industrial     Power supply and delivery service90 70 57Delivery service only42 44 46Other196 165 154Ameren Illinois total$1,522 $1,461 $1,739ATXI:     Transmission services$33 $19 $9Eliminate affiliate revenues(30) (27) (23)Ameren total$4,913 $4,832 $4,85715Table of ContentsElectric Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31,2014 2013 2012Electric Generation – Ameren Missouri – kilowatthours (in millions)43,474 43,213 44,658Price per ton of delivered coal (average) – Ameren Missouri$37.36 $36.19 $34.21Source of Ameren Missouri energy supply:     Coal73.5% 74.1% 70.6%Nuclear20.6 18.6 23.3Hydroelectric2.2 2.9 2.1Natural gas0.2 0.4 1.2Methane gas0.1 0.1 0.1Purchased – Wind0.8 0.7 0.7Purchased – Other2.6 3.2 2.0 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%Gas Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31,2014 2013 2012Natural Gas Sales - dekatherms (in millions):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential8 8 6Commercial4 4 3Industrial1 1 1Transport7 6 6Ameren Missouri total20 19 16Ameren Illinois:     Residential66 62 49Commercial23 21 17Industrial3 6 5Transport91 87 86Ameren Illinois total183 176 157Ameren total203 195 173Natural Gas Operating Revenues (in millions):     Ameren Missouri:     Residential$102 $102 $85Commercial40 42 36Industrial7 8 8Transport and other15 9 10Ameren Missouri total$164 $161 $139Ameren Illinois:     Residential$675 $611 $547Commercial208 185 172Industrial23 26 24Transport and other70 25 43Ameren Illinois total$976 $847 $786Eliminate affiliate revenues— (2) (1)Ameren total$1,140 $1,006 $92416Table of ContentsAVAILABLE INFORMATIONThe Ameren Companies make available free of charge through Ameren’s website (www.ameren.com) their annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents, and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably possible after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also available through an Internet website maintained by the SEC (www.sec.gov). Ameren also uses its website as a channel of distribution for material information about the Ameren Companies. Financial and other material information regarding the Ameren Companies is routinely posted to and accessible at Ameren’s website.The Ameren Companies also make available free of charge through Ameren’s website the charters of Ameren’s board of directors’ audit and risk committee, human resources committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, finance committee, and nuclear oversight and environmental committee; the corporate governance guidelines; a policy regarding communications to the board of directors; a policy and procedures with respect to related-person transactions; a code of ethics for principal executive and senior financial officers; a code of business conduct applicable to all directors, officers and employees; and a director nomination policy that applies to the Ameren Companies. The information on Ameren’s website, or any other website referenced in this report, is not incorporated by reference into this report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSInvestors should review carefully the following material risk factors and the other information contained in this report. The risks that the Ameren Companies face are not limited to those in this section. There may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may adversely affect the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of the Ameren Companies. REGULATORY AND LEGISLATIVE RISKSWe are subject to extensive regulation of our businesses, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local regulation. This extensive regulatory framework, some but not all of which is more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other matters, the electric and natural gas utility industries; rate and cost structure of utilities; operation of nuclear energy centers; construction and operation of generation, transmission, and distribution facilities; acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities; transmission reliability; and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition. In the planning and management of our operations, we must address the effects of existing and proposed laws and regulations and potential changes in the regulatory  framework, including initiatives by federal and state legislatures, RTOs, utility regulators, and taxing authorities. Significant changes in the nature of the regulation of our businesses could require changes to our business planning and management of our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Failure to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals in a timely manner; failure to obtain necessary licenses or permits from regulatory authorities; the impact of new or modified laws, regulations, standards, interpretations, or other legal requirements; or increased compliance costs could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The electric and natural gas rates that we are allowed to charge are determined through regulatory proceedings, which are subject to intervention and appeal and also to legislative actions, which are largely outside of our control. Any events that prevent us from recovering our costs or from earning adequate returns on our investments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.The rates that we are allowed to charge for our utility services significantly influence our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. The electric and natural gas utility industries are extensively regulated. The utility rates charged to our customers are determined by governmental entities, including the MoPSC, the ICC, and the FERC. Many factors influence decisions by these entities, including the cost of providing service, the prudency of expenditures, the quality of service, regulatory staff knowledge and experience, customer intervention, economic conditions, public policy, as well as social and political views. Decisions made by these governmental entities regarding rates are largely outside of our control. We are exposed to regulatory lag to varying degrees by jurisdiction, which, if unmitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Rate orders are also subject to appeal, which creates additional uncertainty as to the rates we will ultimately be allowed to charge for our services. From time to time, our regulators will approve trackers, riders, or other mechanisms that allow electric or natural gas rates to be adjusted without a traditional rate proceeding. These mechanisms are not permanent and could be changed or terminated.Ameren Missouri's electric and natural gas utility rates and Ameren Illinois' natural gas utility rates are typically established in regulatory proceedings that take up to 11 months to complete. Rates established in those proceedings for Ameren Missouri are primarily based on historical costs and revenues. Natural gas rates established in those proceedings for Ameren Illinois may be based on historical or estimated future costs and revenues. Thus, the rates that a utility is allowed to charge may not match its costs at any given time. Rates include an allowed rate of return on investments determined by the regulator. Although rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the regulator will 17Table of Contentsdetermine that our costs were prudently incurred or that the regulatory process will result in rates that will produce full recovery of such costs or provide for an adequate return on those investments.In years when capital investments and operations costs rise or customer usage declines, we may not be able to earn the allowed return established by the regulator. This could result in the deferral or elimination of planned capital investments, which could reduce the rate base investments on which we earn a rate of return. Additionally, increasing rates could result in regulatory and legislative actions, as well as competitive and political pressures, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.As a result of its participation in the performance-based formula ratemaking process established pursuant to the IEIMA, Ameren Illinois’ return on equity for its electric distribution business is directly correlated to yields on United States Treasury bonds. Additionally, Ameren Illinois is required to achieve performance objectives, capital spending levels, and job creation targets. Failure to meet these requirements could adversely affect Ameren's and Ameren Illinois' results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Ameren Illinois is participating in the performance-based formula ratemaking process established pursuant to the IEIMA for its electric distribution business. The ICC annually reviews Ameren Illinois’ performance-based rate filings under the IEIMA for reasonableness and prudency. If the ICC were to conclude that Ameren Illinois’ incurred costs were not prudently incurred, the ICC would disallow recovery of such costs.The return on equity component of the formula rate is equal to the average for the calendar year of the monthly yields of 30-year United States Treasury bonds plus 580 basis points. Therefore, Ameren Illinois’ annual return on equity under the formula ratemaking process for its electric distribution business is directly correlated to yields on such bonds, which are outside of Ameren Illinois’ control. A 50 basis point change in the average monthly yields of the 30-year United States Treasury bonds would result in an estimated $6 million change in Ameren's and Ameren Illinois' 2015 net income.Ameren Illinois is also subject to performance standards. Failure to achieve the standards would result in a reduction in the company’s allowed return on equity calculated under the formula. The IEIMA provides for return on equity penalties totaling 30 basis points in 2015, 34 basis points in each year from 2016 through 2018, and 38 basis points in each year from 2019 through 2022 if the performance standards are not met.Between 2012 and 2021, Ameren Illinois is required to invest $625 million in capital projects incremental to its average electric delivery capital projects investments of $228 million for calendar years 2008 through 2010, in order to modernize its distribution system. Ameren Illinois is subject to monetary penalties if 450 additional jobs are not created in Illinois during the peak program year. Unless it is extended, the IEIMA formula ratemaking process will expire in 2017. When the performance-based formula rate process expires, Ameren Illinois would be required to establish future rates through a traditional rate proceeding with the ICC, which might not result in rates that produce a full or timely recovery of costs or provide for an adequate return on investments. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. Significant capital expenditures are required to achieve and maintain compliance with these laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in closure of facilities, alterations to the manner in which these facilities operate, increased operating costs, adverse impacts to our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity, or exposure to fines and liabilities.We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations enforced by federal, state, and local authorities. From the beginning phases of siting and development to the operation of existing or new electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas storage, transmission and distribution facilities, our activities involve compliance with diverse environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations address emissions; discharges to water, water usage, impacts to air, land, and water, and chemical and waste handling. Complex and lengthy processes are required to obtain and renew approvals, permits, or licenses for new, existing, or modified facilities. Additionally, the use and handling of various chemicals or hazardous materials require release prevention plans and emergency response procedures.We are also subject to liability under environmental laws that address the remediation of environmental contamination of property currently or formerly owned by us or by our predecessors, as well as property contaminated by hazardous substances that we generated. Such properties include MGP sites and third-party sites, such as landfills. Additionally, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us. They could allege injury from exposure to hazardous materials, could seek to compel remediation of environmental contamination, or could recover damages resulting from that contamination.The EPA is developing and implementing environmental regulations that will have a significant impact on the electric utility industry. Over time, compliance with these regulations could be costly for certain companies, including Ameren Missouri, that operate coal-fired power plants. Certain of these new and proposed regulations, if adopted, are likely to be challenged through litigation, so their ultimate implementation, as well as the timing of any such implementation, is uncertain.Ameren is also subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations. The EPA is engaged in an enforcement initiative to determine whether coal-fired power plants failed to comply with the requirements of the NSR and NSPS provisions under the Clean Air Act when the 18Table of Contentspower plants implemented modifications. In January 2011, the Department of Justice, on behalf of the EPA, filed a complaint against Ameren Missouri in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. An outcome in this matter adverse to Ameren Missouri could require substantial capital expenditures and the payment of substantial penalties, neither of which can be determined at this time. Such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions.In January 2014, the EPA published proposed regulations that would set revised CO2 emissions standards for new power plants. The proposed standards would establish separate emissions limits for new natural-gas-fired plants and new coal-fired plants. In June 2014, the EPA proposed the Clean Power Plan, which sets forth CO2 emissions standards that would be applicable to existing power plants. The proposed Clean Power Plan would require each state to develop plans to achieve CO2 emission standards that the EPA calculated for each state. The EPA believes that the Clean Power Plan would achieve a 30% reduction in the nation's existing power plant CO2 emissions from 2005 levels by 2030. The proposed rule also has interim goals of aggressively reducing CO2 emissions by 2020. The EPA expects the proposed rule will be finalized in 2015. Ameren Missouri’s integrated resource plan is projected to achieve the carbon emissions reductions proposed in the EPA’s Clean Power Plan by 2035, rather than the EPA’s final target date of 2030 or its interim target dates beginning in 2020. Ameren Missouri continues to evaluate its potential compliance plans for the proposed Clean Power Plan. Preliminary studies suggest that if the proposed Clean Power Plan were to be finalized in its current form, Ameren Missouri may need to incur new or accelerated capital expenditures and increased fuel costs in order to achieve compliance. As proposed, the Clean Power Plan would require states, including Missouri and Illinois, to submit compliance plans as early as 2016. The states’ compliance plans might require Ameren Missouri to construct natural-gas-fired combined cycle generation and renewable generation, at a currently estimated cost of approximately $2 billion by 2020, that Ameren Missouri believes would otherwise not be necessary to meet the energy needs of its customers. Additionally, Missouri’s implementation of the proposed rules, if adopted, could result in the closure or alteration of the operation of some of Ameren Missouri’s coal and natural gas-fired energy centers, which could result in increased operating costs or impairment of assets. The Clean Power Plan may negatively impact electric system reliability for Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois.Ameren and Ameren Missouri have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation. New or revised environmental regulations, enforcement initiatives, or legislation could result in a significant increase in capital expenditures and operating costs, decreased revenues, increased financing requirements, penalties or fines, or  reduced operations of some of Ameren Missouri's coal-fired energy centers, which, in turn, could lead to increased liquidity needs and higher financing costs. Actions required to ensure that our facilities and operations are in compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be prohibitively expensive if the costs are not recovered through rates. Environmental laws could  require Ameren Missouri to close or to alter significantly the operation of its energy centers. Moreover, if Ameren Missouri requests recovery of these capital expenditures and costs through rates, the MoPSC could deny recovery of all or a portion of these costs, prevent timely recovery, or make changes to the regulatory framework in an effort to minimize rate volatility and customer rate increases. Capital expenditures and costs to comply with future legislation or regulations that are not recoverable through rates might result in Ameren Missouri closing coal-fired energy centers earlier than planned, which would lead to an impairment of assets and reduced revenues. We are unable to predict the ultimate impact of these matters on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Government challenges to our tax positions, as well as tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions, could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity.We are required to make judgments in order to estimate tax obligations. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes for tax positions that may be challenged by tax authorities. The obligations, which include income taxes and taxes other than income taxes, involve complex matters that ultimately could be litigated. We also estimate our ability to use tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards and tax credits that are recorded as deferred tax assets on our balance sheets. A disallowance of these tax benefits could have a material adverse impact on our results of operation, financial position, and liquidity.Customers’, legislators’ and regulators’ opinions of us are affected by many factors, including system reliability, implementation of our investment plans, protection of customer information, rates, and media coverage. To the extent that customers, legislators or regulators develop a negative opinion of us, our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity could be negatively affected.Service interruptions due to failures of equipment or facilities as a result of severe or destructive weather or other causes, and the ability of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois to promptly respond to such failures, can affect customer satisfaction. In addition to system reliability issues, the success of modernization efforts, such as those planned for Ameren Illinois’ electric and natural gas delivery systems, our ability to safeguard sensitive customer information, and other actions can affect customer satisfaction. The timing and magnitude of rate increases and volatility of rates can also affect customer satisfaction. Customers', legislators' and regulators' opinions of us can also be affected by media coverage, including the proliferation of social media, which may include information, whether factual or not, that damages our brand and reputation.If customers, legislators or regulators have a negative opinion of us and our utility services, this could result in increased regulatory oversight and could impact the returns on common equity we are allowed to earn. Additionally, negative opinions about us could make it more difficult for our utilities to achieve 19Table of Contentsfavorable legislative or regulatory outcomes. Negative opinions could also result in sales volume reductions and increased use of distributed generation. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.We are subject to federal regulatory compliance and proceedings, which increase our risk of regulatory penalties and other sanctions.The FERC can impose civil penalties of $1 million per violation per day for violation of FERC statutes, rules, and orders, including mandatory NERC reliability standards. As owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems and electric energy centers, we are subject to mandatory NERC reliability standards, including cybersecurity standards. Compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. If we were found not to be in compliance with these mandatory reliability standards or the FERC statutes, rules, and orders, we could incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. The FERC also conducts audits and reviews of Ameren Missouri's, Ameren Illinois', and ATXI's accounting records to assess the accuracy of its formula ratemaking process and has the ability to require retroactive refunds to customers for previously billed amounts, with interest.OPERATIONAL RISKSThe construction of and capital improvements to our electric and natural gas utility infrastructure involve substantial risks. These risks include escalating costs, unsatisfactory performance by the projects when completed, the inability to complete projects as scheduled, cost disallowances by regulators, and the inability to earn an adequate return on invested capital, any of which could result in higher costs and the closure of facilities.We expect to incur significant capital expenditures in order to make investments to improve our electric and natural gas utility infrastructure and to comply with existing environmental regulations. We estimate that we will incur up to $9.3 billion (Ameren Missouri - up to $3.9 billion; Ameren Illinois - up to $4.0 billion; ATXI - up to $1.4 billion) of capital expenditures during the period from 2015 through 2019. These estimates include allowance for equity funds used during construction. Investments in Ameren’s rate-regulated operations are expected to be recoverable from ratepayers, but are subject to prudence reviews and, depending on the jurisdiction, regulatory lag. Our ability to complete construction projects successfully within projected estimates is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. These variables include, but are not limited to, project management expertise and escalating costs for materials, labor, and environmental compliance. Delays in obtaining permits, shortages in materials and qualified labor, suppliers and contractors who do not perform as required under  their contracts, changes in the scope and timing of projects, the inability to raise capital on reasonable terms, or other events beyond our control that could occur may materially affect the schedule, cost, and performance of these projects. With respect to capital expenditures for pollution control equipment, there is a risk that a power plant may not be permitted to continue to operate if pollution control equipment is not installed by prescribed deadlines or does not perform as expected. Should any such pollution control equipment not be installed on time or perform as expected, Ameren Missouri could be subject to additional costs and to the loss of its investment in the project or facility. All of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.As of December 31, 2014, Ameren Missouri had capitalized $69 million of costs incurred to license additional nuclear generation at its existing Callaway energy center site. If efforts are abandoned or if management concludes that it is probable the costs incurred will be disallowed in rates, a charge to earnings would be recognized in the period in which that determination was made. The NRC review of the COL application to license additional nuclear generation at the Callaway energy center site is currently suspended through the end of 2015.Ameren and Ameren Illinois may not be able to execute their electric transmission investment plans or to realize the expected return on those investments.Ameren, through ATXI and Ameren Illinois, is allocating significant additional capital resources to electric transmission investments. This allocation of capital resources is based on the FERC's regulatory framework and a rate of return on common equity that is currently higher than that allowed by our state commissions. However, the FERC regulatory framework and rate of return is subject to change, including changes as a result of third-party complaints and challenges at the FERC. The regulatory framework may not be as favorable, or the rate of return may be lower, in the future. Currently, the FERC-allowed return on common equity for MISO transmission owners is 12.38%. In November 2013, a complaint case was filed with the FERC seeking a reduction in the allowed return on common equity under the MISO tariff. A second complaint case was filed in February 2015. These complaint cases could negatively affect Ameren Illinois' and ATXI's allowed return. Any such reduction would also result in a refund of transmission service revenues earned since the filing of the initial complaint case in November 2013. A 50 basis point reduction in the FERC-allowed return on common equity would reduce Ameren's and Ameren Illinois' 2015 earnings by an estimated $4 million and $2 million, respectively, based on projected rate base. A significant portion of Ameren's planned electric transmission investments consists of three separate projects to be constructed by ATXI, which have been approved by MISO as multi-value projects. The total investment by ATXI in these three projects is expected to be more than $1.6 billion. The last of these projects is expected to be completed in 2019. A failure by ATXI to complete these three projects on time and within projected cost estimates could adversely affect Ameren's results 20Table of Contentsof operations, financial position, and liquidity. The FERC has issued multiple orders, which are subject to ongoing litigation, eliminating the right of first refusal for an electric utility to construct within its service territory certain new transmission projects for which there will be regional cost sharing. If these orders are upheld by the courts, Ameren might need to compete to build certain future electric transmission projects in its subsidiaries' service territories. Such competition could prevent Ameren from investing in future electric transmission projects to the extent desired. Also, Ameren may not be successful in its efforts to build transmission assets outside of its subsidiaries' service territories or MISO.Our electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. Operation of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities involves many risks, including:•facility shutdowns due to operator error or a failure of equipment or processes;•longer-than-anticipated maintenance outages;•aging infrastructure that may require significant expenditures to operate and maintain;•disruptions in the delivery of fuel or lack of adequate inventories, including ultra-low-sulfur coal used for Ameren Missouri’s compliance with environmental regulations;•lack of adequate water required for cooling plant operations;•labor disputes;•inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements, including those relating to environmental laws;•disruptions in the delivery of electricity that impact our customers;•handling, storage, and disposition of CCR;•unusual or adverse weather conditions or other natural disasters, including severe storms, droughts, floods, tornadoes, earthquakes, solar flares, and electromagnetic pulses;•accidents that might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage, or environmental damage;•cybersecurity risks, including loss of operational control of Ameren Missouri's energy centers and our transmission and distribution systems and loss of data, such as utility customer data and account information through insider or outsider actions;•failure of other operators' facilities and the effect of that failure on our electric system and customers;•the occurrence of catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, acts of sabotage or terrorism, pandemic health events, or other similar occurrences;•limitations on amounts of insurance available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operating our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities; and •other unanticipated operations and maintenance expenses and liabilities.Ameren Missouri’s ownership and operation of a nuclear energy center creates business, financial, and waste disposal risks.Ameren Missouri’s ownership of the Callaway energy center subjects it to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the following:•potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials;•continued uncertainty in the federal government plan to permanently store spent nuclear fuel and the risk of being required to provide for long-term storage of spent nuclear fuel at the Callaway energy center;•limitations on the amounts and types of insurance available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the Callaway energy center or other United States nuclear facilities;•uncertainties with respect to contingencies and retrospective premium assessments relating to claims at the Callaway energy center or any other United States nuclear facilities;•public and governmental concerns about the adequacy of security at nuclear facilities;•uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear facilities at the end of their licensed lives;•limited availability of fuel supply; •costly and extended outages for scheduled or unscheduled maintenance and refueling; and•potential adverse effects of a natural disaster or acts of sabotage or terrorism.The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety requirements for nuclear facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or to shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated from time to time by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear facilities such as Ameren Missouri’s Callaway energy center. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could have a material but indeterminable adverse effect on Ameren's and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit and could also cause the NRC to impose additional conditions or requirements on the industry, which could increase costs and result in additional capital expenditures. Under revised standards relating to seismic risk, the NRC may require Ameren Missouri to further evaluate the impact of an earthquake on its Callaway energy center due its proximity to a fault line, which could require the installation of additional capital equipment.Our natural gas distribution and storage activities 21Table of Contentsinvolve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Inherent in our natural gas distribution and storage activities are a variety of hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, mechanical problems and cybersecurity risks, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these hazards could result in serious injury, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental impacts, and impairment of our operations, which in turn could lead us to incur substantial losses. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of distribution lines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, business centers, industrial sites, and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. A major domestic incident involving natural gas systems could lead to additional capital expenditures and increased regulation of natural gas utilities. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Significant portions of our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities and natural gas transmission and distribution facilities are aging. This aging infrastructure may require additional maintenance expenditures or may require replacement.Our  aging infrastructure may pose risks to system reliability and expose us to expedited or additional unplanned capital expenditures and operating costs. All of Ameren Missouri’s coal-fired energy centers were constructed prior to 1978, while its Callaway nuclear energy center was constructed prior to 1984. The age of these energy centers increases the risks of unplanned outages, reduced generation output, and higher maintenance expense. If, at the end of its life, an energy center's cost has not been fully recovered, Ameren Missouri may be negatively affected if such cost is not allowed in rates by the MoPSC. Aging transmission and distribution facilities are more prone to failure than new facilities, which results in higher maintenance expense and the need to replace these facilities with new infrastructure. Even if the system is properly maintained, its reliability may ultimately deteriorate and negatively affect our ability to serve our customers, which could result in additional oversight by our regulators. The higher maintenance costs and capital expenditures for new replacement infrastructure could cause additional rate volatility for our customers, resistance by our regulators to allow customer rate increases, and/or regulatory lag in some of our jurisdictions, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Energy conservation, energy efficiency, distributed generation, and other factors that reduce energy demand could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Requirements and incentives to reduce energy consumption have been proposed by regulatory agencies and introduced by  legislatures. Conservation and energy efficiency programs are designed to reduce energy demand. Unless there is a regulatory mechanism ensuring recovery, a decline in usage will result in an under-recovery of fixed costs at our rate-regulated businesses. Ameren Missouri, even with the implementation of customer energy efficiency programs under the MEEIA, is exposed to declining usage losses from energy efficiency efforts not related to its specific programs as well as from distributed generation sources such as solar panels. Additionally, macroeconomic factors resulting in low economic growth or contraction within our service territories could reduce energy demand.Technological advances could reduce customer electricity consumption. Ameren Missouri generates power at utility-scale energy centers to achieve economies of scale and to produce power at a competitive cost. Some distributed generation technologies have recently become more cost-competitive. It is possible that advances in technology and legislative or regulatory actions will continue to reduce the costs of these alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of Ameren Missouri's energy centers. Increased adoption of these technologies could decrease our revenues as customers might not use our generation, transmission, and distribution services at current levels. Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois might incur stranded costs, which ultimately might not be recovered through rates.Failure to retain and attract key officers and other skilled professional and technical employees could adversely affect our operations.Our businesses depend upon our ability to employ and retain key officers and other skilled professional and technical employees. A significant portion of our work force is nearing retirement, including many employees with specialized skills, such as maintaining and servicing our electric and natural gas infrastructure and operating our energy centers.Our operations are subject to acts of sabotage, war, terrorism, cyber attacks, and other intentionally disruptive acts.Like other electric and natural gas utilities, our energy centers, fuel storage facilities, transmission and distribution facilities, and information systems may be targets of terrorist activities, including cyber attacks, which could disrupt our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy products. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant additional costs for repair, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.Our industry has begun to see an increase in volume and sophistication of cybersecurity incidents from international activist organizations, countries, and individuals. A security breach of our physical assets or information systems could affect the reliability of the transmission and distribution system, disrupt electric generation, and/or subject us to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information, including sensitive customer and employee data. If a significant breach occurred, our reputation could be adversely affected, 22Table of Contentscustomer confidence could be diminished, or we could be subject to legal claims, any of which could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant additional costs for remedying the impacts of such a breach. Our generation, transmission and distribution systems are part of an interconnected system. Therefore, a disruption caused by a cybersecurity incident at another utility, electric generator, RTO, or commodity supplier could also adversely affect our businesses. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. In addition, regulations could require changes in our security measures and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Ameren Missouri may ultimately not collect its receivable from an insurance company that provided liability coverage at the time of the breach of the upper reservoir of its Taum Sauk pumped-storage hydroelectric energy center, which could have a material adverse effect on Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.In December 2005, there was a breach of the upper reservoir at Ameren Missouri’s Taum Sauk pumped-storage hydroelectric energy center. This breach resulted in significant flooding in the local area, which damaged a state park. Ameren Missouri had liability insurance coverage for the Taum Sauk incident, subject to certain limits and deductibles. Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s results of operations, financial position, and liquidity could be adversely affected if Ameren Missouri’s remaining liability insurance claim of $41 million as of December 31, 2014, is not paid. The insurance claim is currently subject to litigation.FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC AND MARKET RISKSOur businesses are dependent on our ability to access the capital markets successfully. We may not have access to sufficient capital in the amounts and at the times needed.We rely on short-term and long-term debt as significant sources of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not satisfied by our operating cash flow, as well as to refinance long-term debt. The inability to raise debt or equity capital on reasonable terms, or at all, could negatively affect our ability to maintain and to expand our businesses. Events beyond our control, such as a recession or extreme volatility in the debt, equity, or credit markets, may create uncertainty that could increase our cost of capital or impair or eliminate our ability to access the debt, equity, or credit markets, including our ability to draw on bank credit facilities. Any adverse change in our credit ratings could reduce access to capital and trigger additional collateral postings and prepayments. Such changes could also increase the cost of borrowing and fuel, power and natural gas supply, among other things, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Certain Ameren subsidiaries, such as ATXI, rely on Ameren for access to capital. Circumstances that limit Ameren’s access to capital could impair its ability to provide those subsidiaries with needed capital.  Ameren’s holding company structure could limit its ability to pay common stock dividends and to service its debt obligations.Ameren is a holding company; therefore, its primary assets are its investments in the common stock of its subsidiaries, including Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois. As a result, Ameren’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the earnings of its subsidiaries and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer funds to Ameren. Similarly, Ameren’s ability to service its debt obligations is dependent upon the earnings of operating subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings and other payments, including payments of principal and interest under intercompany indebtedness. The payment of dividends to Ameren by its subsidiaries in turn depends on their results of operations and available cash and other items affecting retained earnings. Ameren’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any dividends or make any other distributions (except for payments required pursuant to the terms of intercompany borrowing arrangements and cash payments under the tax allocation agreement) to Ameren. Certain financing agreements, corporate organizational documents, and certain statutory and regulatory requirements may impose restrictions on the ability of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois to transfer funds to Ameren in the form of cash dividends, loans, or advances.Dynegy’s or its subsidiaries' failure to satisfy certain of their indemnity and other obligations to Ameren in connection with the divestiture of New AER to IPH could have a material adverse effect on Ameren’s results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.In December 2013, Ameren completed the divestiture of New AER to IPH. The transaction agreement between Ameren and IPH requires Ameren, until December 2, 2015, to maintain its financial obligations in existence as of December 2, 2013, under all credit support arrangements or obligations that pertain to New AER and its subsidiaries. Ameren must also provide any additional credit support that may be contractually required pursuant to any of the contracts of New AER, and its subsidiaries as of December 2, 2013. IPH, New AER and its subsidiaries, and Dynegy have agreed to indemnify Ameren for certain losses relating to this credit support. IPH’s indemnification obligations are secured by certain AERG and Genco assets. However, these indemnification obligations and security interests might not cover all losses that could be incurred by Ameren in connection with providing this credit support. As of December 31, 2014, the balance of the Marketing Company note to Ameren was $12 million. Additionally, as of December 31, 2014, Ameren provided $114 million in guarantees and $9 million in letters of credit relating to its credit support of New AER. Dynegy emerged from its Chapter 11 bankruptcy case in 2012. As of December 31, 2014, Dynegy’s credit ratings were sub-investment-grade. IPH, New AER and its subsidiaries also do not have investment-grade credit ratings. Dynegy, IPH, New AER, or their subsidiaries might not be able to satisfy their indemnity and other obligations under the transaction agreement, Marketing Company’s note to 23Table of ContentsAmeren, or Dynegy’s limited guarantee to Ameren, which could have a material adverse impact on Ameren’s results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. Increasing costs associated with our defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits could adversely affect our financial position and liquidity.We offer defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans that cover substantially all of our employees. Assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates, timing of employee retirements, and mortality, as well as other actuarial matters, have a significant impact on our customers' rates and our plan funding requirements. Ameren's total unfunded obligation under its pension and postretirement benefit plans was $710 million as of December 31, 2014. Ameren expects to fund its pension plans at a level equal to the greater of the pension expense or the legally required minimum contribution. Considering Ameren’s assumptions at December 31, 2014, its investment performance in 2014, and its pension funding policy, Ameren expects to make annual contributions of $25 million to $115 million in each of the next five years, with aggregate estimated contributions of $290 million. We expect Ameren Missouri’s and Ameren Illinois’ portion of the future funding requirements to be 41% and 40%, respectively. These amounts are estimates. They may change with actual investment performance, changes in interest rates, changes in our assumptions, changes in government regulations, and any voluntary contributions.In addition to the costs of our retirement plans, the costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees have increased in recent years. We believe that our employee benefit costs, including costs of health care plans for our employees and former employees, will continue to rise. The increasing costs and funding requirements associated with our defined benefit retirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits could increase our financing needs and otherwise materially adversely affect our financial position and liquidity.ITEM 1B