Item 1A, and Note 3 – Rate and
    Regulatory Matters, under Part II, Item 8, of this
    report for a discussion of credit rating changes issued in
    response to potential actions in Illinois that could threaten
    the financial solvency of CIPS, CILCO and IP and their ability
    to procure power.


 



    Non-rate-regulated
    Generation


 


    In December 2006, Genco and AERG each entered into separate
    power supply agreements to sell all of their generation capacity
    to Marketing Company. Both agreements began on January 1,
    2007, and will continue through December 31, 2022, and from
    year to year thereafter unless either party elects to terminate
    the agreement. In December 2005, Marketing Company entered into
    a power supply agreement with EEI, whereby EEI agreed to sell
    100% of its capacity and energy to Marketing Company. This
    agreement expires on December 30, 2015. A portion of this
    power was sold by Marketing Company into the Illinois power
    procurement auction. For additional information on the electric
    power supply agreements, see Note 13 – Related
    Party Transactions to our financial statements under
    Part II, Item 8, of this report.


 



    NATURAL GAS
    SUPPLY FOR DISTRIBUTION


 


    UE, CIPS, CILCO and IP are responsible for the purchase and
    delivery of natural gas to their gas utility customers. UE,
    CIPS, CILCO and IP develop and manage a portfolio of gas supply
    resources, including firm gas supply under term agreements with
    producers, interstate and intrastate firm transportation
    capacity, firm storage capacity leased from interstate
    pipelines, and on-system storage facilities to maintain gas
    deliveries to our customers throughout the year and especially
    during peak demand. UE, CIPS, CILCO and IP primarily use the
    Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company, the Trunkline Gas Company,
    the Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, the Mississippi
    River Transmission Corporation, and the Texas Eastern
    Transmission Corporation interstate pipeline systems to
    transport natural gas to their systems. In addition to physical
    transactions, financial instruments including those entered into
    in the NYMEX futures market and in the OTC



    
    11



Table of Contents




    financial markets are used to hedge the price paid for natural
    gas. Prudently incurred natural gas purchase costs are passed on
    to UE, CIPS, CILCO and IP gas customers in Illinois and Missouri
    dollar-for-dollar
    under PGA clauses, subject to prudency review by the ICC and the
    MoPSC.


 


    For additional information on our fuel and purchased power
    supply, see Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital
    Resources and Effects of Inflation and Changing Prices in
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, of
    this report; Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk under Part II, Item 7A, of this report;
    and Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies, Note 8 – Derivative Financial
    Instruments, Note 13 – Related Party
    Transactions, Note 14 – Commitments and
    Contingencies, and Note 15 – Callaway Nuclear
    Plant to our financial statements under Part II,
    Item 8, of this report.


 



    INDUSTRY
    ISSUES


 


    We are facing issues common to the electric and gas utility
    industry and the non-rate-regulated electric generation
    industry. These issues include:


 




    
    



        •    

        political and regulatory resistance to higher rates;






        •    

        the potential for changes in laws and regulation;






        •    

        the potential for more intense competition in generation and
    supply;






        •    

        changes in the structure of the industry as a result of changes
    in federal and state laws, including the formation of
    non-rate-regulated generating entities and RTOs;






        •    

        fluctuations in power prices due to the balance of supply and
    demand and fuel prices;






        •    

        availability of fuel and increases in prices;






        •    

        rising labor and material costs;






        •    

        continually developing and complex environmental laws,
    regulations and issues, including new air-quality standards,
    mercury regulations, and possible greenhouse gas limitations;






        •    

        public concern about the siting of new facilities;






        •    

        construction of new power generating and transmission facilities;






        •    

        proposals for programs to encourage energy efficiency and
    renewable sources of power;






        •    

        public concerns about nuclear plant operation and
    decommissioning and the disposal of nuclear waste;






        •    

        consolidation of electric and gas companies; and






        •    

        global climate issues.





 


    We are monitoring these issues. We are unable to predict what
    impact, if any, these issues will have on our results of
    operations, financial position, or liquidity. For additional
    information, see Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A,
    and Outlook and Regulatory Matters in Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations under Part II, Item 7, and
    Note 3 – Rate and Regulatory Matters, and
    Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies to our
    financial statements under Part II, Item 8, of this
    report.


 


    
    12



Table of Contents



 



    OPERATING
    STATISTICS


 


    The following tables present key electric and natural gas
    operating statistics for Ameren for the past three years. Unless
    otherwise indicated, IP is included only for the periods after
    its acquisition on September 30, 2004.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



    Electric
    Operating
    Statistics –
    Year Ended December 31,
    


 


    2006


 


 


    2005


 


 


    2004


 


 


 





    Electric operating revenues
    (millions)
    



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Residential
    



 


    $


    1,751


 


 


    $


    1,805


 


 


    $


    1,323


 


 


 





    Commercial
    



 


 


    1,634


 


 


 


    1,630


 


 


 


    1,289


 


 


 





    Industrial
    



 


 


    996


 


 


 


    955


 


 


 


    765


 


 


 





    Wholesale
    



 


 


    290


 


 


 


    339


 


 


 


    335


 


 


 





    Other
    



 


 


    52


 


 


 


    51


 


 


 


    33


 


 


 





    Interchange
    



 


 


    741


 


 


 


    499


 


 


 


    420


 


 


 





    Miscellaneous
    



 


 


    121


 


 


 


    152


 


 


 


    98


 


 


 





    Total electric operating revenues
    



 


    $


    5,585


 


 


    $


    5,431


 


 


    $


    4,263


 


 


 





    Kilowatthour sales (millions)
    



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Residential
    



 


 


    24,557


 


 


 


    25,570


 


 


 


    19,121


 


 


 





    Commercial
    



 


 


    26,164


 


 


 


    26,259


 


 


 


    21,846


 


 


 





    Industrial
    



 


 


    23,429


 


 


 


    22,590


 


 


 


    18,988


 


 


 





    Wholesale
    



 


 


    7,982


 


 


 


    9,684


 


 


 


    9,388


 


 


 





    Other
    



 


 


    709


 


 


 


    732


 


 


 


    421


 


 


 





    Interchange
    



 


 


    17,580


 


 


 


    11,224


 


 


 


    13,801


 


 


 





    Total kilowatthour sales
    



 


 


    100,421


 


 


 


    96,059


 


 


 


    83,565


 


 


 





    Residential revenue per
    kilowatthour (average)
    



 


 


    7.13


    ¢


 


 


    7.06


    ¢


 


 


    6.92


    ¢


 


 





    Capability at time of peak,
    including net purchases and sales (thousands of megawatts)
    



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    UE
    



 


 


    10,153


 


 


 


    9,892


    (a)


 


 


    9,243


    (a)


 


 





    Genco
    



 


 


    4,872


    (a)


 


 


    4,815


    (a)


 


 


    4,603


    (a)


 


 





    AERG
    



 


 


    1,401


 


 


 


    1,380


 


 


 


    1,380


 


 


 





    IP
    



 


 


    3,950


 


 


 


    4,000


    (a)


 


 


    (b


    )


 


 





    EEI (Ameren’s ownership
    interest)
    



 


 


    801


 


 


 


    801


 


 


 


    801


 


 


 





    Generating capability at time of
    peak (thousands of
    megawatts)(c)
    



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    UE
    



 


 


    10,279


 


 


 


    9,318


 


 


 


    8,351


 


 


 





    Genco
    



 


 


    3,713


 


 


 


    3,685


 


 


 


    4,239


 


 


 





    AERG
    



 


 


    1,216


 


 


 


    1,230


 


 


 


    1,230


 


 


 





    EEI (Ameren’s ownership
    interest)
    



 


 


    801


 


 


 


    801


 


 


 


    801


 


 


 





    Price per ton of delivered coal
    (average)
    



 


    $


    22.74


 


 


    $


    21.31


 


 


    $


    19.65


 


 


 





    Source of energy supply
    



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Coal
    



 


 


    65.8


    %


 


 


    66.0


    %


 


 


    74.9


    %


 


 





    Gas
    



 


 


    0.9


 


 


 


    1.1


 


 


 


    0.7


 


 


 





    Oil
    



 


 


    0.7


 


 


 


    0.8


 


 


 


    0.9


 


 


 





    Nuclear
    



 


 


    9.7


 


 


 


    8.1


 


 


 


    9.3


 


 


 





    Hydroelectric
    



 


 


    0.9


 


 


 


    1.3


 


 


 


    1.7


 


 


 





    Purchased and interchanged, net
    



 


 


    22.0


 


 


 


    22.7


 


 


 


    12.5


 


 


 




 


 


 


    100.0


    %


 


 


    100.0


    %


 


 


    100.0


    %


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 




    
    
    



    
    (a)
    
    
    
    Includes purchases from EEI.
    





    
    (b)
    
    
    
    Peak occurred before the
    acquisition date of September 30, 2004.
    





    
    (c)
    
    
    
    Represents gross generating
    capability.
    




 


    
    13



Table of Contents






     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



    Gas Operating
    Statistics Year
    Ended –
    December 31,
    


 


    2006


 


 


    2005


 


 


    2004


 


 


 





    Natural gas operating revenues
    (millions)
    



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Residential
    



 


    $


    791


 


 


    $


    804


 


 


    $


    506


 


 


 





    Commercial
    



 


 


    317


 


 


 


    320


 


 


 


    198


 


 


 





    Industrial
    



 


 


    140


 


 


 


    158


 


 


 


    121


 


 


 





    Other
    



 


 


    47


 


 


 


    63


 


 


 


    41


 


 


 





    Total natural gas operating revenues
    



 


    $


    1,295


 


 


    $


    1,345


 


 


    $


    866


 


 


 





    Dth sales (millions of Dth)
    



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Residential
    



 


 


    62


 


 


 


    67


 


 


 


    49


 


 


 





    Commercial
    



 


 


    26


 


 


 


    28


 


 


 


    21


 


 


 





    Industrial
    



 


 


    21


 


 


 


    19


 


 


 


    18


 


 


 





    Total Dth sales (millions of Dth)
    



 


 


    109


 


 


 


    114


 


 


 


    88


 


 


 





    Peak day throughput (thousands of
    Dth)
    



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    UE
    



 


 


    124


 


 


 


    161


 


 


 


    182


 


 


 





    CIPS
    



 


 


    242


 


 


 


    250


 


 


 


    272


 


 


 





    CILCO
    



 


 


    356


 


 


 


    370


 


 


 


    412


 


 


 





    IP
    



 


 


    540


 


 


 


    569


 


 


 


    541


    (a)


 


 





    Total peak day throughput
    



 


 


    1,262


 


 


 


    1,350


 


 


 


    1,407


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 




    
    
    



    
    (a)
    
    
    
    Represents peak day throughput
    since the acquisition date of September 30, 2004. IP’s
    peak day throughput for the first three quarters of 2004 was
    654 Dth.
    




 



    AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION


 


    The Ameren Companies make available free of charge through
    Ameren’s Internet Web site (www.ameren.com) their annual
    reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably possible after such reports are electronically filed
    with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also
    available through an Internet Web site maintained by the SEC
    (www.sec.gov).


 


    The Ameren Companies also make available free of charge through
    Ameren’s Web site (www.ameren.com) the charters of
    Ameren’s board of directors’ audit committee, human
    resources committee, nominating and corporate governance
    committee, nuclear oversight committee, and public policy
    committee; the corporate governance guidelines; a policy
    regarding communications to the board of directors; a policy and
    procedures with respect to related-person transactions; a code
    of ethics for principal executive and senior financial officers;
    a code of business conduct applicable to all directors, officers
    and employees; and a director nomination policy that applies to
    the Ameren Companies.


 


    These documents are also available in print upon written request
    to Ameren Corporation, Attention: Secretary, P.O.
    Box 66149, St. Louis,
    Missouri 63166-6149.
    The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at
    the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
    N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information
    on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
    at
    1-800-SEC-0330.


 



    ITEM 1A.
    RISK FACTORS


 


    The electric and gas rates that UE, CIPS, CILCO and IP are
    allowed to charge are currently the subject of rate case
    proceedings and potential legislative action. The outcome of
    these proceedings and of other potential legislative action or
    future rate proceedings is largely outside of our control.
    Should these events result in the inability of UE, CIPS, CILCO
    or IP to recover their respective costs and earn an appropriate
    return on investment, it could have a material adverse effect on
    our future results of operations, financial position, or
    liquidity. In particular, we believe freezing electric rates at
    2006 levels in Illinois would lead to CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and
    IP being financially insolvent.


 


    The rates that certain Ameren Companies are allowed to charge
    for their services are the single most important item
    influencing the results of operations, financial position, or
    liquidity of the Ameren Companies. The electric and gas utility
    industry is highly regulated. The regulation of the rates that
    we charge our customers is determined, in large part, by
    governmental entities outside of our control, including the
    MoPSC, the ICC, and FERC. Decisions made by these entities could
    have a material adverse effect on our results of operations,
    financial position, or liquidity.


 


    Increased costs and investments, when combined with rate
    reductions and moratoriums, have caused decreased returns in
    Ameren’s utility businesses. Ameren expects that many of
    its operating expenses will continue to rise. Ameren further
    expects to continue to make significant investment in its energy
    infrastructure. These are the two principal factors underlying
    the pending rate increase requests with the MoPSC and the rate
    increase requests recently acted upon and pending rehearing with
    the ICC. We cannot predict the outcome of these rate case
    proceedings or of potential Illinois legislative action to deny
    full recovery of costs. In addition, in response to competitive,
    economic, political, legislative and regulatory pressures, in
    connection with the resolution of our current rate case
    proceedings or otherwise, we may be subject to further rate
    moratoriums, rate refunds, limits on rate increases, or rate
    reductions, including phase-in plans. Any or all of these could
    have a material adverse effect on our results of operations,
    financial position, or liquidity.



    14



Table of Contents



 



    Illinois


 



    Electric Delivery
    Service Rate Cases


 


    A provision of the Illinois Customer Choice Law related to the
    restructuring of the Illinois electric industry put a rate
    freeze into effect through January 1, 2007, for CIPS, CILCO
    and IP. CIPS, CILCO and IP filed rate cases with the ICC in
    December 2005 to modify their electric delivery service rates
    effective January 2, 2007. CIPS, CILCO and IP requested to
    increase their annual revenues for electric delivery service by
    $202 million in the aggregate (CIPS –
    $14 million, CILCO – $43 million and
    IP – $145 million). In November 2006, the ICC
    issued an order that approved an aggregate revenue increase of
    $97 million effective January 2, 2007
    (CIPS – an $8 million decrease, CILCO –
    a $21 million increase and IP – an
    $84 million increase) based on an allowed return on equity
    of 10%. In December 2006, the ICC granted the Ameren Illinois
    Utilities’ petition for rehearing of the November 2006
    order on the recovery of certain administrative and general
    expenses, totaling $50 million, that were disallowed. The
    ICC’s decision on the recovery of these expenses is due in
    May 2007. The ICC denied requests for rehearings filed by other
    parties in this case. Because of the ICC’s cost
    disallowances and regulatory lag, the Ameren Illinois Utilities
    are not expected to earn their allowed return on equity of 10%
    in 2007. Most customers were taking service under a frozen
    bundled electric rate in 2006, which includes the cost of power,
    so these delivery service revenue changes will not directly
    correspond to a change in CIPS’, CILCO’s or IP’s
    revenues or earnings under the new electric delivery service
    rates that became effective January 2, 2007.


 



    Potential
    Electric Rate Freeze and Recovery of
    Post-2006
    Power Supply Costs


 


    Consistent with the Illinois Customer Choice Law that froze
    electric rates for CIPS, CILCO and IP through January 1,
    2007, these companies entered into power supply contracts that
    expired on December 31, 2006. In January 2006, the ICC
    approved a framework for CIPS, CILCO and IP to procure power for
    use by their customers through an auction. It also approved the
    related tariffs to collect these costs from customers for the
    period commencing January 2, 2007. This approval is subject
    to pending court appeals. In accordance with the January 2006
    ICC order, a power procurement auction was held in September
    2006.


 


    Subsequently, the ICC determined that it would not investigate
    the results of the auction to procure power for fixed-price
    customers, and the independent auction manager declared a
    successful result in the auction for these fixed-price
    customers, which include the vast majority of electric customers
    of CIPS, CILCO and IP. Certain Illinois legislators, the
    Illinois attorney general, the Illinois governor, and other
    parties sought to block the power procurement auction. They
    continue to challenge the auction and the structure for the
    recovery of costs for power supply resulting from the auction
    through rates to customers. In February 2006, legislation was
    introduced in the Illinois House of Representatives that would
    have extended the electric rate freeze in Illinois at 2006
    levels through 2010. On October 2, 2006, Speaker of the
    Illinois House of Representatives Michael Madigan sent a letter
    to Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich asking the Illinois
    governor to call a special session of the Illinois General
    Assembly to consider this rate freeze legislation. The governor
    sent a letter indicating that once the votes to pass the
    legislation were in place, he would immediately call for a
    special session of the legislature. The governor’s letter
    further provided that if a consensus among members of the
    general assembly could not be reached in the near future, he
    would call a special session as well. The governor’s letter
    stated that he continued to support legislation extending the
    rate freeze and would like to sign it into law as soon as
    possible. No special session was called in 2006. During the
    Illinois General Assembly’s session that ended in January
    2007, the Illinois House of Representatives passed legislation
    to freeze rates at 2006 levels through 2010, and the Illinois
    Senate passed legislation containing an electric rate increase
    phase-in plan. The Illinois Senate bill provided for a mandatory
    phase-in of the 2007 increase in residential electric rates over
    a three-year period. Neither piece of legislation was passed by
    the other chamber before the end of the session in early January
    2007.


 


    Any legislative measure will need to be approved by the Illinois
    House of Representatives and Illinois Senate, and signed by the
    Illinois governor before it can become law. New rates for CIPS,
    CILCO and IP reflecting the power costs resulting from the
    ICC-approved September 2006 auction and the delivery service
    rates authorized by the November 2006 ICC order became effective
    January 2, 2007. A new Illinois General Assembly went into
    session in late January 2007. As a result, all previous bills
    expired. New bills have been introduced during the current
    legislative session, including legislation to rollback rates to
    2006 levels similar to previously proposed legislation. On
    February 27, 2007, the Ameren Illinois Utilities announced
    that they intended to file an electric rate increase mitigation
    plan with the ICC. As part of the plan, which is subject to ICC
    approval, the Ameren Illinois Utilities would fund an
    approximate $20 million one-time reduction to active
    residential accounts that would appear on electric bills in
    March and April 2007. The rate mitigation plan is targeted to
    customers with high volume usage. As part of the filing, the
    carrying charge of 3.25% in the current ICC-approved phase-in
    plan would be eliminated. If approved by the ICC, the one-time
    credit for residential customers would result in a charge to
    Ameren’s earnings in 2007 of $20 million, or 6 cents
    per share. In addition, eliminating the below-market interest
    rate on deferred amounts under the phase-in plan would increase
    financing costs for the Ameren Illinois Utilities during the
    deferral period. The actual cost to Ameren will depend on the
    level of participation in the phase-in plan.


 


    CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and IP believe that legislation freezing
    electric rates at 2006 levels, if enacted, would have a material
    adverse effect on their results of operations, financial
    position, and liquidity, including the financial insolvency of
    CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and IP. They believe it could cause
    significant job losses and, without governmental intervention,
    significant disruptions in electric and gas



    
    15



Table of Contents




    service. Since Ameren’s Illinois utilities own no
    generation facilities, the companies must purchase power on the
    competitive market to meet customers’ energy needs. If
    electric rates were to be frozen at 2006 levels, the major
    credit rating agencies have stated that the Ameren Illinois
    Utilities’ credit ratings would be downgraded to deep junk
    (or speculative) status. Such a downgrade of CILCO’s
    ratings would also result in a similar downgrade of
    CILCORP’s ratings. We believe that CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and
    IP would be faced with potential collateral and prepayment
    requirements for products and services, such as natural gas, and
    would eventually run out of cash and available credit and be
    unable to borrow. We believe that this would cause the Ameren
    Illinois Utilities and CILCORP to become financially insolvent.
    In reaction to intensified political discussion in Illinois
    regarding electric rate freeze extension legislation, in October
    2006, S&P downgraded the short- and long-term credit ratings
    of the Ameren Companies and kept the Ameren Companies on credit
    watch with negative implications; Moody’s placed the
    long-term debt ratings of the Ameren Companies under review for
    possible downgrade; and Fitch placed the ratings of Ameren,
    CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and IP on rating watch negative.


 


    CIPS, CILCO and IP strongly believe that freezing rates at 2006
    levels in Illinois would not be in the best interests of any of
    the Ameren Illinois Utilities or their customers. In December
    2006, the ICC approved a constructive rate increase phase-in
    plan proposed by CILCO, CIPS and IP for residential, small
    commercial, and eligible local governmental and school customers
    to address the significant increases in customer rates for the
    Ameren Illinois Utilities beginning in 2007. However, if the
    Illinois legislature passes rate phase-in legislation that does
    not allow for the full and timely recovery of costs, it could
    have a material adverse effect on CIPS’, CILCORP’s,
    CILCO’s and IP’s results of operations, financial
    position, or liquidity.


 


    Ameren, CIPS, CILCO and IP will continue to explore a number of
    legal and regulatory actions, strategies, and alternatives to
    address these Illinois electric issues. CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and
    IP expect to take whatever actions are necessary to protect
    their legal and financial interests, including seeking the
    protection of the bankruptcy courts. However, there can be no
    assurance that Ameren and the Ameren Illinois Utilities will
    prevail over the stated opposition of certain Illinois
    legislators, the Illinois attorney general, the Illinois
    governor, and other stakeholders, or that the legal and
    regulatory actions, strategies and alternatives that Ameren and
    the Ameren Illinois Utilities are considering will be successful.


 


    We are unable to predict the results of the court appeals of the
    January 2006 ICC order approving CIPS’, CILCO’s and
    IP’s power procurement auction and the related tariffs. Nor
    can we predict the actions the Illinois General Assembly and
    governor may take that may affect electric rates or the power
    procurement process for CIPS, CILCO and IP. Any decision or
    action that impairs the ability of CIPS, CILCO and IP to fully
    recover purchased power or distribution costs from their
    electric customers in a timely manner would result in material
    adverse consequences to Ameren, CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and IP.
    These consequences could include a significant drop in credit
    ratings to deep junk (or speculative) status, a loss of access
    to the capital markets, higher borrowing costs, higher power
    supply costs, an inability to make timely energy infrastructure
    investments, significant risk of disruption in electric and gas
    service, significant job losses, and financial insolvency. In
    addition, Ameren, CILCORP and IP could be required to record a
    charge for goodwill impairment for the goodwill that was
    recorded when Ameren acquired CILCORP and IP. As of
    December 31, 2006, Ameren had $830 million, CILCORP
    $542 million and IP $213 million of goodwill on their
    balance sheets. Furthermore, if the Ameren Illinois Utilities
    are unable to recover their costs from customers, the utilities
    could be required to cease applying SFAS No. 71,
    “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
    Regulation,” which allows CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and IP to
    defer certain costs pursuant to actions of rate regulators and
    to recover such costs in rates charged to customers. This would
    result in the elimination of all regulatory assets recorded by
    CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and IP on their balance sheets and a
    one-time extraordinary charge on their statements of income that
    could be material. As of December 31, 2006, CIPS had
    $146 million, CILCORP $75 million, CILCO
    $75 million and IP $401 million recorded as regulatory
    assets on their balance sheets.


 



    Missouri


 


    With the expiration of multiyear electric and gas rate
    moratoriums, effective July 1, 2006, UE filed requests with
    the MoPSC in July 2006 for an electric rate increase of
    $361 million and for a natural gas delivery rate increase
    of $11 million. In December 2006, the MoPSC staff and other
    stakeholders filed direct testimony in response to UE’s
    rate case filings. The MoPSC staff recommended in their
    testimony an electric rate reduction of $136 million to
    $168 million and a gas rate increase of $2 million to
    $3 million. During the course of the rate proceeding,
    parties to the case may change their positions. A decision from
    the MoPSC is expected no later than June 2007. Any change in
    electric or gas rates may not directly correspond to a change in
    UE’s earnings.


 


    UE does not currently have a rate-adjustment clause for its
    electric operations in Missouri that would allow it to recover
    from customers the costs for purchased power, fuel, or
    infrastructure investment. Therefore, insofar as UE has not
    hedged its fuel and power costs, UE is exposed to changes in
    fuel and power prices to the extent they exceed the costs
    embedded in current electric rates. In its Missouri electric
    rate case filed in July 2006, UE requested a fuel and purchased
    power cost recovery mechanism that would be subject to MoPSC
    approval. The MoPSC staff and intervenors in the electric rate
    case have recommended that UE not be granted the right to use
    such a mechanism. UE also requested an environmental
    cost-recovery mechanism as part of its pending Missouri electric
    rate case, but no rules have been established for such a
    mechanism. Any new energy infrastructure investment could result
    in increased



    
    16



Table of Contents




    financing requirements for UE, which could increase further
    depending on rate case outcomes. The lack of timely recovery of
    these costs could have a material adverse effect on UE’s
    results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. We are
    unable to predict whether the MoPSC will approve our request for
    a fuel and purchased power cost recovery mechanism in our
    pending electric rate case. We also are unable to predict when
    rules implementing the environmental cost recovery mechanism
    will be formally proposed and adopted.


 


    If Illinois electric rates are frozen at 2006 levels or if
    the ability of CIPS, CILCO and IP to recover post-2006 power
    supply costs or increase electric delivery service rates is
    otherwise impaired, there may be a material adverse effect on
    Ameren, UE and Genco in addition to the Ameren Illinois
    Utilities and CILCORP.


 


    We believe that freezing electric rates at 2006 levels in
    Illinois would cause CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and IP to become
    financially insolvent. Although the Ameren Companies are
    separate, independent legal entities with separate businesses,
    assets and liabilities, there is a risk that the financial
    insolvency of CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and IP could have a
    materially adverse effect on Ameren, UE and Genco. If rates are
    frozen at 2006 levels in Illinois for CIPS, CILCO and IP, or if
    the ability of CIPS, CILCO and IP to recover post-2006 power
    supply costs or increase electric delivery service rates is
    otherwise impaired, such events might increase Ameren’s,
    UE’s and Genco’s cost of capital or adversely affect
    the ability of these companies to access the capital markets,
    particularly during times of uncertainty in the capital markets,
    which could negatively affect their ability to maintain and
    expand their businesses. Moody’s, S&P and Fitch each
    have indicated that they would lower the credit ratings for
    CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and IP to deep junk (or speculative)
    status, if electric rates were frozen at 2006 levels, reflecting
    the material impact such action would have on the cash flow and
    liquidity of these companies. It is possible that the rating
    agencies could decide to lower the credit ratings of Ameren, UE
    or Genco at the same time. Any adverse change in the ratings of
    Ameren, UE or Genco could also increase their cost of borrowing
    under existing credit facilities, and suppliers might begin to
    request prepayment for products and services (such as fuel,
    power and gas) or the posting of collateral.


 


    If CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and IP become insolvent, their
    commitments to Ameren, Genco and AERG might be unfulfilled.
    Pursuant to agreements executed in connection with the recent
    Illinois power procurement auction, Marketing Company is selling
    to CIPS, CILCO and IP power that is being supplied under
    contracts from Genco and AERG. If CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and IP
    become insolvent, Genco, AERG or Marketing Company may not be
    able to recover the cost of power delivered to those companies
    but not paid for prior to insolvency. Marketing Company’s
    commitments to sell power to CIPS, CILCO, IP and other
    unaffiliated parties also rely, in part, on power supplied by
    AERG. In the event of financial insolvency, AERG may not be able
    to deliver power it has committed to sell to Marketing Company;
    that could force Marketing Company to acquire the power to meet
    its commitments at a higher cost.


 


    In addition, dividends on Ameren’s common stock and the
    payment of Ameren’s other obligations, including its debt,
    depend on distributions made to it by its subsidiaries. If CIPS,
    CILCORP, CILCO and IP should become insolvent, they will not be
    able to make distributions to Ameren. Additionally, if CIPS,
    CILCORP, CILCO and IP fall below investment grade in ratings of
    their securities, they will be limited in the amount of
    dividends they may pay. As a result, the board of directors of
    Ameren might decide to rely more heavily on UE and Ameren’s
    unregulated operations to support dividends on Ameren’s
    common stock, or to reduce or eliminate the payment of
    dividends. Moreover, the absence of distributions from the
    Illinois utilities and CILCORP could force Ameren to use other
    available sources of liquidity to service its debt obligations.


 


    We cannot determine at this time whether the freezing of rates
    at 2006 levels in Illinois that would lead to CIPS, CILCORP,
    CILCO and IP insolvency will occur. We also cannot determine
    what the resulting effect would be on Ameren, UE and Genco.
    However, the financial insolvency of CIPS, CILCORP, CILCO and IP
    could have a material adverse effect on the results of
    operations, financial position, or liquidity of Ameren, UE and
    Genco.


 


    Our counterparties may not meet their obligations to us.


 


    We are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various
    arrangements (including our affiliates) who owe us money,
    energy, coal or other commodities or services will not be able
    to perform their obligations. Should the counterparties to these
    arrangements fail to perform, we might be forced to replace or
    to sell the underlying commitment at then-current market prices.
    In such event, we might incur losses, or our results of
    operations, financial position, or liquidity could otherwise be
    adversely affected.


 


    Increased federal and state environmental regulation will
    require UE, Genco, CILCO (through AERG) and EEI to incur large
    capital expenditures and to incur increased operating costs.
    Future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could result in
    significant increases in capital and operating expenditures.


 


    About 61% of Ameren’s generating capacity is coal-fired and
    about 85% of its electric generation was produced by its
    coal-fired plants in 2006. The rest is nuclear, gas-fired,
    hydroelectric, and oil-fired. In May 2005, the EPA issued final
    regulations with respect to
    SO2,
    NOx,
    and mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. The new
    rules require significant additional reductions in these
    emissions from UE, Genco, AERG and EEI power plants in phases,
    beginning in 2009. Preliminary estimates of capital compliance
    costs for Ameren, UE, Genco and AERG range from
    $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion by 2016.


 


    The Missouri Department of Natural Resources formally proposed
    rules to implement the federal Clean Air Mercury and Clean Air
    Interstate Rules in November 2006. Missouri



    
    17



Table of Contents




    rules are similar to the federal rules. The Missouri Air
    Conservation Commission approved the rules at their February
    2007 meeting. The rules will be effective after publication in
    the Missouri Register targeted for April 2007. The rules will
    also need to be approved by the EPA. If approved, these rules
    when fully implemented are expected to reduce mercury emissions
    81% by 2018 and to reduce
    NOx
    emissions 30% and
    SO2
    emissions 75% by 2015.


 


    Illinois has proposed rules to implement the federal Clean Air
    Interstate Rule program; however it is anticipated that the
    rules will not be finalized until the second quarter of 2007.
    The Illinois EPA proposed rules for mercury that are
    significantly stricter than the federal rules. Illinois has also
    proposed Clean Air Interstate Rule program rules for
    NOx
    that are more stringent than the federal program. In 2006,
    Genco, AERG, EEI, and the Illinois EPA entered into an agreement
    on Illinois’ mercury rules. Under the agreement, Illinois
    generators may delay the compliance date for mercury reductions
    in exchange for accelerated installation of
    NOx
    and
    SO2
    controls. The agreement with the Illinois EPA also restricts the
    purchase of
    SO2
    and
    NOx
    emission allowances to meet specific allowed emission rates set
    forth in the agreement. The Illinois Joint Committee on
    Administrative Review approved the Illinois mercury rule in
    December 2006, and the Illinois Pollution Control Board issued a
    final order and adopted the mercury rule in late December 2006.
    The final rule was published in the Illinois Register in January
    2007. The rule will also need to be approved by the EPA. When
    fully implemented, these rules are expected to reduce mercury
    emissions 90%,
    NOx
    emissions 50% and
    SO2
    emissions 70% by 2015.


 


    Future initiatives regarding greenhouse gas emissions and global
    warming continue to be the subject of much debate. As a result
    of our diverse fuel portfolio, our contribution to greenhouse
    gases varies among our generating facilities. Coal-fired power
    plants, however, are significant sources of carbon dioxide, a
    principal greenhouse gas. Six electric power sector trade
    associations, including the Edison Electric Institute, of which
    Ameren is a member, and the TVA, signed a Memorandum of
    Understanding (MOU) with the DOE in December 2004 calling for a
    3% to 5% voluntary decrease in carbon intensity by the utility
    sector between 2002 and 2012. Currently, Ameren is considering
    various initiatives to comply with the MOU, including increased
    generation at nuclear and hydroelectric power plants, increased
    efficiency measures at our coal-fired units, and investments in
    renewable energy and carbon sequestration projects. Future
    legislation or regulations that mandate limits on the emission
    of greenhouse gases would result in significant increases in
    capital expenditures and operating costs. Mandatory limits could
    have a material adverse impact on Ameren’s, UE’s,
    Genco’s, AERG’s and EEI’s results of operations,
    financial position, or liquidity.


 


    The EPA has been conducting an enforcement initiative to
    determine whether modifications at a number of coal-fired power
    plants owned by electric utilities in the United States are
    subject to New Source Review requirements or New Source
    Performance Standards under the Clean Air Act. The EPA’s
    inquiries focus on whether the best available emission control
    technology was or should have been used at such power plants
    when major maintenance or capital improvements were made.


 


    In April 2005, Genco received a request from the EPA for
    information pursuant to Section 114(a) of the Clean Air
    Act, seeking detailed operating and maintenance history data
    with respect to its Meredosia, Hutsonville, Coffeen and Newton
    facilities, EEI’s Joppa facility, and AERG’s E.D.
    Edwards and Duck Creek facilities. In December 2006, the EPA
    issued a second Section 114(a) request to Genco regarding
    projects at the Newton facility. All of these facilities are
    coal-fired plants. Genco is asked to respond to specific EPA
    questions about certain projects and maintenance activities in
    order to determine compliance with certain Illinois air
    pollution and emissions rules and with the New Source
    Performance Standards required by the Clean Air Act. These
    information requests are being complied with, but we cannot
    predict the outcome of this matter.


 


    We are unable to predict the ultimate effect of any new
    environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines,
    enforcement initiatives, or legislation on our results of
    operations, financial position, or liquidity. Any of these
    factors could result in a significant increase in capital
    expenditures, closure of power plants, penalties and operating
    costs for UE, Genco, CILCO (through AERG) and EEI. Therefore,
    such factors could also result in decreased revenues, increased
    financing requirements and increased costs for these Ameren
    companies. Although costs incurred by UE would be eligible for
    recovery in rates over time, subject to MoPSC approval in a rate
    proceeding, there is no similar mechanism for recovery of costs
    by Genco, AERG or EEI in Illinois.


 


    Increasing costs associated with our defined benefit
    retirement plans, health care plans, and other employee-related
    benefits may adversely affect our results of operations,
    financial position, or liquidity.


 


    We offer defined benefit and postretirement plans that cover
    substantially all of our employees. Assumptions related to
    future costs, returns on investments, interest rates, and other
    actuarial matters have a significant impact on our earnings and
    funding requirements. Based on our assumptions at
    December 31, 2006, and the new contribution requirements in
    the Pension Protection Act of 2006, in order to maintain minimum
    funding levels for Ameren’s pension plans, we do not expect
    future contributions to be required until 2009 at which time we
    would expect to pay a required contribution of $100 million
    to $150 million. Required contributions of
    $150 million to $200 million each year are also
    expected for 2010 and 2011. We expect the companies to share
    future funding requirements as follows: UE – 61%;
    CIPS – 10%; Genco – 11%; CILCO –
    7%; and IP – 11%. These amounts are estimates. They
    may change with actual stock market performance, changes in
    interest rates, any pertinent changes in government regulations,
    and any voluntary contributions.



    
    18



Table of Contents



 


    In addition to the costs of our retirement plans, the costs of
    providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees
    have increased substantially in recent years. We believe that
    our employee benefit costs, including costs of health care plans
    for our employees and former employees, will continue to rise.
    The increasing costs and funding requirements associated with
    our defined benefit retirement plans, health care plans, and
    other employee benefits may adversely affect our results of
    operations, financial position, or liquidity.


 


    UE’s, Genco’s, AERG’s, Medina Valley’s
    and EEI’s electric generating facilities are subject to
    operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant
    outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses,
    liability, and increased purchased power costs.


 


    UE, Genco, AERG, Medina Valley, and EEI own and operate
    coal-fired, nuclear, gas-fired, hydroelectric, and oil-fired
    generating facilities. Operation of electric generating
    facilities involves certain risks that can adversely affect
    energy output and efficiency levels. Among these risks are:


 




    
    



        •    

        increased prices for fuel and fuel transportation;






        •    

        facility shutdowns due to a failure of equipment or processes or
    operator error;






        •    

        longer-than-anticipated
    maintenance outages;






        •    

        disruptions in the delivery of fuel and lack of adequate
    inventories;






        •    

        labor disputes;






        •    

        inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements;






        •    

        disruptions in the delivery of electricity;






        •    

        increased capital expenditure requirements, including those due
    to environmental regulation;






        •    

        unusual or adverse weather conditions; and






        •    

        catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, or other
    similar occurrences affecting electric generating facilities.





 


    The breach of the upper reservoir of UE’s Taum Sauk
    pumped-storage hydroelectric facility could continue to have an
    adverse effect on Ameren’s and UE’s results of
    operations, liquidity, and financial condition.


 


    In December 2005, there was a breach of the upper reservoir at
    UE’s Taum Sauk pumped-storage hydroelectric facility. This
    resulted in significant flooding in the local area, which
    damaged a state park.


 


    The FERC investigation of the incident has been completed. In
    October 2006, the FERC approved a stipulation and consent
    agreement between UE and the FERC’s Office of Enforcement
    that resolves all issues arising from an investigation by the
    FERC’s Office of Enforcement. They looked into alleged
    violations of license conditions and FERC regulations by UE as
    the licensee of the Taum Sauk hydroelectric facility that may
    have contributed to the breach of the upper reservoir. As part
    of the stipulation and consent agreement, UE agreed, among other
    things, (1) to pay a civil penalty of $10 million,
    (2) to pay $5 million into an interest-bearing escrow
    account to fund project enhancements at or near the Taum Sauk
    facility, and (3) to implement and comply with a new dam
    safety program developed in connection with the settlement.


 


    In December 2006, the state of Missouri, through its attorney
    general and 10 business owners filed separate lawsuits regarding
    the Taum Sauk breach. The attorney general’s lawsuit, which
    was filed in the Missouri circuit court in St. Louis,
    alleges negligence, violations of the Missouri Clean Water Act,
    and various other statutory and common law claims. The business
    owners’ suit, which was filed in the Missouri circuit court
    in Reynolds County, contains similar allegations. It seeks
    damages relating to business losses and lost profit. Both suits
    seek unspecified punitive damages. In January 2007, the Missouri
    Department of Natural Resources filed a petition to intervene as
    a plaintiff in the attorney general’s lawsuit.


 


    In February 2007, UE submitted plans and an environmental report
    to FERC to rebuild the upper reservoir at its Taum Sauk Plant,
    assuming successful resolution of outstanding issues with
    agencies of the state of Missouri. Should the decision be made
    to rebuild the Taum Sauk plant, UE would expect it to be out of
    service through at least the middle of 2009, if not longer. In
    2005, the Taum Sauk facility provided 589,000 megawatthours of
    electricity.


 


    To the extent that UE needs to purchase power because of the
    unavailability of the Taum Sauk facility, there is the risk that
    UE will not be permitted to recover these additional costs from
    ratepayers if such a request is made. The Taum Sauk incident is
    expected to reduce Ameren’s and UE’s 2007 pretax
    earnings by $15 million to $20 million as a result of
    higher-cost sources of power, reduced interchange sales, and
    increased expenses, net of insurance reimbursement for
    replacement power costs. In addition, there is also the risk
    that UE will not be permitted to rebuild the Taum Sauk facility
    upper reservoir. UE could be required to expense its remaining
    investment in the plant of $64 million immediately.


 


    At this time, excluding fines and penalties, UE believes that
    substantially all of the damage and liabilities caused by the
    breach will be covered by insurance. Under UE’s insurance
    policies, all claims by UE are subject to review by its
    insurance carriers. Until the reviews conducted by state
    authorities have concluded, litigation has been resolved, the
    insurance review is completed, a final decision about whether
    the plant will be rebuilt is made, and future regulatory
    treatment for the plant is determined, among other things, we
    are unable to determine the impact the breach may have on
    Ameren’s and UE’s results of operations, financial
    position, or liquidity beyond those amounts already recognized.


 


    Genco’s, AERG’s, and EEI’s electric generating
    facilities must compete for the sale of energy and capacity,
    which exposes them to price risk.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, Genco and CILCO (through AERG)
    owned non-rate-regulated electric generating facilities with
    capacities of 4,222 megawatts and 1,138 megawatts, respectively.
    During 2006, most of Genco’s and AERG’s wholesale and
    retail electric power supply agreements



    
    19



Table of Contents




    expired. As a result, Genco and AERG now compete for the sale of
    energy and capacity through Marketing Company.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, EEI owned 1,055 megawatts of
    non-rate-regulated electric generating facilities. On
    December 31, 2005, EEI’s power supply contract with
    its affiliates, including UE, CIPS and IP, expired. All of
    EEI’s generating capacity now competes for the sale of
    energy and capacity through Marketing Company.


 


    To the extent that electric capacity generated by these
    facilities is not under contract to be sold, the revenues and
    results of operations of these non-rate-regulated subsidiaries
    generally depend on the prices that they can obtain for energy
    and capacity in Illinois and adjacent markets. Among the factors
    that could influence such prices (all of which are beyond our
    control to a significant degree) are:


 




    
    



        •    

        the current and future market prices for natural gas, fuel oil,
    and coal;






        •    

        current and forward prices for the sale of electricity;






        •    

        the extent of additional supplies of electric energy from
    current competitors or new market entrants;






        •    

        the regulatory and pricing structures developed for evolving
    Midwest energy markets and the pace at which regional markets
    for energy and capacity develop outside of bilateral contracts;






        •    

        changes enacted by the ICC with respect to power procurement
    procedures;






        •    

        future pricing for, and availability of, services on
    transmission systems, and the effect of RTOs and export energy
    transmission constraints, which could limit our ability to sell
    energy in markets adjacent to Illinois;






        •    

        the growth rate in electricity usage as a result of population
    changes, regional economic conditions, and the implementation of
    conservation programs;






        •    

        climate conditions in the Midwest market; and






        •    

        environmental laws and regulations.





 


    UE’s ownership and operation of a nuclear generating
    facility creates business, financial, and waste disposal
    risks.


 


    UE owns the Callaway nuclear plant, which represents about 12%
    of UE’s generation capacity and produced 13% of UE’s
    2006 generation. Therefore, UE is subject to the risks of
    nuclear generation, which include the following:


 




    
    



        •    

        potential harmful effects on the environment and human health
    resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the
    storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials;






        •    

        the availability of a permanent waste storage site;






        •    

        limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially
    available to cover losses that might arise in connection with
    UE’s nuclear operations or those of others in the United
    States;






        •    

        uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessment
    amounts if insurance coverage is inadequate;






        •    

        increased public and governmental concerns over the adequacy of
    security at nuclear power plants;






        •    

        uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial
    aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their
    licensed lives (UE’s facility operating license for the
    Callaway nuclear plant expires in 2024);






        •    

        limited availability of fuel supply; and






        •    

        costly and extended outages for scheduled or unscheduled
    maintenance.





 


    The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose
    licensing and safety requirements for nuclear generation
    facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the
    authority to impose fines, shut down a unit, or both, depending
    upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until
    compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated
    by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at
    nuclear plants such as UE’s. In addition, if a serious
    nuclear incident were to occur, it could have a material but
    indeterminable adverse effect on UE’s results of
    operations, financial position, or liquidity. A major incident
    at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC
    to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any
    domestic nuclear unit.


 


    UE’s Callaway nuclear plant’s next scheduled refueling
    and maintenance outage is in 2007. During an outage, which
    occurs approximately every 18 months, maintenance and
    purchased power costs increase, and the amount of excess power
    available for sale decreases, compared with non-outage years.


 


    Operating performance at UE’s Callaway nuclear plant has
    resulted in unscheduled or extended outages. The operating
    performance at UE’s Callaway nuclear plant has declined
    both in comparison with its past operating performance and in
    comparison with the operating performance of other nuclear
    plants in the United States. Ameren and UE are actively working
    to address the factors that led to the decline in
    Callaway’s operating performance. Management and
    supervision of operating personnel, equipment reliability,
    maintenance worker practices, engineering performance, training,
    and overall organizational effectiveness have been reviewed.
    Some actions have been taken and other actions are under
    consideration. However, Ameren and UE cannot predict whether
    such efforts will result in an overall improvement of operations
    at Callaway. Any actions taken are expected to result in
    incremental operating costs at Callaway. Further, additional
    unscheduled or extended outages at Callaway could have a
    material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial
    position, or liquidity of Ameren and UE.


 


    Our energy risk management strategies may not be effective in
    managing fuel and electricity pricing risks, which could result
    in unanticipated liabilities or increased volatility in our
    earnings.


 


    We are exposed to changes in market prices for natural gas,
    fuel, electricity, emission allowances, and transmission
    congestion. Prices for natural gas, fuel, electricity, and
    emission allowances may fluctuate substantially over relatively
    short periods of time and expose us to commodity price risk. We
    use long-term purchase and sales contracts in



    
    20



Table of Contents




    addition to derivatives such as forward contracts, futures
    contracts, options, and swaps to manage these risks. We attempt
    to manage our risk associated with these activities through
    enforcement of established risk limits and risk management
    procedures. We cannot ensure that these strategies will be
    successful in managing our pricing risk, or that they will not
    result in net liabilities because of future volatility in these
    markets.


 


    Although we routinely enter into contracts to hedge our exposure
    to the risks of demand, market effects of weather, and changes
    in commodity prices, we do not hedge the entire exposure of our
    operations from commodity price volatility. Furthermore, our
    ability to hedge our exposure to commodity price volatility
    depends on liquid commodity markets. To the extent that
    commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute
    our risk management strategies, which could result in greater
    unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time. To the
    extent that unhedged positions exist, fluctuating commodity
    prices can adversely affect our results of operations, financial
    position, or liquidity.


 


    Our facilities are considered critical energy infrastructure
    and may therefore be targets of acts of terrorism.


 


    Like other electric and gas utilities, our power generation
    plants, fuel storage facilities, and transmission and
    distribution facilities may be targets of terrorist activities
    that could result in disruption of our ability to produce or
    distribute some portion of our energy products. Any such
    disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues or
    significant additional costs for repair, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    position, or liquidity.


 


    Our businesses are dependent on our ability to access the
    capital markets successfully. We may not have access to
    sufficient capital in the amounts and at the times needed.


 


    We use short-term and long-term capital markets as a significant
    source of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not
    satisfied by our operating cash flow, including those related to
    future environmental compliance. The inability to raise capital
    on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in
    the capital markets, could negatively affect our ability to
    maintain and to expand our businesses. Our current credit
    ratings cause us to believe that we will continue to have access
    to the capital markets. However, events beyond our control may
    create uncertainty that could increase our cost of capital or
    impair our ability to access the capital markets. See the Credit
    Ratings section in Liquidity and Capital Resources in
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, of
    this report for a discussion of credit rating changes in
    response to actions in Illinois with respect to the matter of
    power procurement commencing in 2007.


 



    ITEM 1B