ITEM 1A.                            RISK FACTORS




General Risks of Our Regulated Operations




We may not be able to recover the costs of our substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions.   (Applies to each registrant.)




Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades and retrofits, construction and/or acquisition of additional generation units and transmission facilities, modernizing existing infrastructure as well as other initiatives. Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions.  If these regulatory commissions do not approve adjustments to the rates we charge, we would not be able to recover the costs associated with our planned extensive investment.  This would cause our financial results to be diminished.  While we may seek to limit the impact of any denied recovery by attempting to reduce the scope of our capital investment, there can be no assurance as t
o the effectiveness of any such mitigation efforts, particularly with respect to previously incurred costs and commitments.








We may not fully recover all of the investment in and expenses related to the Turk Plant.  (Applies to AEP and SWEPCo)







SWEPCo is in the process of building the John W. Turk Plant (the “Turk Plant”) in southwest Arkansas and holds a 73% ownership interest in the planned 600MW coal-fired generating facility.  Its construction and anticipated operation has resulted in numerous legal challenges, including:








·  


the validity of the air permit issued by the Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission in connection with the operation of the Turk Plant;








·  


the validity of the wetlands permit issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in connection with the construction and operation of the Turk Plant;








·  


the validity of the authority granted by the APSC to build three transmission lines and facilities needed to transmit power from the Turk Plant;








·  


whether SWEPCo is required to obtain APSC approval to construct the Turk Plant without pursuing authority to seek recovery of the originally approved 88 MW portion of Turk Plant costs in Arkansas retail rates; and








·  


a complaint filed in the Federal District Court for the Western District of Arkansas against SWEPCo, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the U.S. Department of Interior and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service seeking a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction to stop construction of the Turk Plant asserting claims of violations of various federal and state laws.







If SWEPCo is unable to complete the Turk Plant construction and place the Turk Plant in service or if SWEPCo cannot recover all of its investment in and expenses related to the Turk Plant, it would materially reduce future net income and cash flows and materially impact financial condition.

 



  



24







  



Our request for rate recovery in Ohio for distribution service may not be approved in its entirety.  (Applies to AEP, CSPCo and OPCo)




In January 2011, CSPCo and OPCo filed a notice of intent with the PUCO to file for an annual increase in distribution rates of $34 million and $59 million, respectively, either as individual companies, or, if their proposed merger is approved, as a single merged entity.  The increase is based upon an 11.15% return on common equity to be effective January 2012. If the PUCO denies all or part of the requested rate recovery, it could reduce future net income and cash flows.




Our request for rate recovery in Ohio for generation service may not be approved in its entirety.  (Applies to AEP, CSPCo and OPCo)




In January 2011, CSPCo and OPCo filed an application with the PUCO to approve the new ESP that includes a standard service offer pricing for generation effective with the first billing cycle of January 2012 through the last billing cycle of May 2014.  The requested increase in 2012 is $54 million and in 2013 is $106 million.  If the PUCO denies all or part of the requested rate recovery, it could reduce future net income and cash flows.




Ohio may require us to refund revenue that we have collected. (Applies to AEP, CSPCo and OPCo)




Ohio law requires that the PUCO determine on an annual basis if rate adjustments included in prior orders resulted in significantly excessive earnings.  If the rate adjustments result in significantly excessive earnings, the excess amount could be returned to customers.  In September 2010, CSPCo and OPCo filed their 2009 significantly excessive earnings filings with the PUCO.  In January 2011, the PUCO ruled that CSPCo generated approximately $43 million in significantly excessive earnings during 2009. The ruling is subject to rehearing by the PUCO and could be appealed in the courts.  If rehearing or a final appeal, if any, results in findings of additional significantly excessive earnings, then further amounts will be returned to customers. CSPCo and OPCo must file their 2010 significantly exc
essive earnings filings with the PUCO. If the PUCO determines that CSPCo’s and/or OPCo’s 2010 earnings were significantly excessive, CSPCo and/or OPCo may be required to return a portion of their revenues to customers.

 

Ohio may require us to refund fuel costs that we have collected. (Applies to OPCo)




The PUCO selected an outside consultant to conduct an audit of recovery under the fuel adjustment clause for the period of January 2009 through December 2009.  The audit report included a recommendation that the PUCO should review whether any proceeds from a 2008 coal contract settlement agreement which totaled $72 million should reduce OPCo’s under-recovery balance.  Of the total proceeds, approximately $58 million was recognized as a reduction to fuel expense prior to 2009 and $14 million reduced fuel expense in 2009 and 2010.  If the PUCO orders any portion of the $58 million or other future adjustments be used to reduce the current year fuel adjustment clause deferral, it would reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.




Ohio may require us to refund rider revenue that we have collected. (Applies to CSPCo and OPCo)




The PUCO approved recovery of an Economic Development Rider (EDR) by CSPCo and OPCo.  An intervenor in that proceeding has filed a notice of appeal of that award with the Supreme Court of Ohio.  As of December 31, 2010, CSPCo and OPCo have incurred $38 million and $30 million, respectively, in EDR costs including carrying costs.  If CSPCo and OPCo are not ultimately permitted to recover their deferrals it would reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.






  



25







  







Our request for rate recovery in West Virginia may not be approved in its entirety.  (Applies to AEP and APCo)







In May 2010, APCo and WPCo filed a request with the WVPSC to increase annual base rates by $156 million based on an 11.75% return on common equity to be effective March 2011.  If the WVPSC denies all or part of the requested rate recovery, it could reduce future net income and cash flows.




Oklahoma may require us to refund fuel costs that we have collected. (Applies to PSO)




In July 2009, the OCC initiated a proceeding to review PSO’s fuel and purchased power adjustment clause for the calendar year 2008 and also initiated a prudence review of the related costs.  In March 2010, the Oklahoma Attorney General and an intervenor recommended the fuel clause adjustment rider be amended to decrease the shareholder’s portion of off-system sales margins from 25% to 10%.  That intervenor also recommended that the OCC conduct a comprehensive review of all affiliate transactions during 2007 and 2008.  In July 2010, additional testimony regarding the 2007 transfer of ERCOT trading contracts to AEP Energy Partners was filed.  Included in this testimony were unquantified refund recommendations relating to re-pricing of contract transactions.  If the OCC were t
o issue an unfavorable decision, it would reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.




Our future access to assets used to serve a major customer is in question.  (Applies to I&M)




Since 1975 I&M has leased certain energy delivery assets from the City of Fort Wayne, Indiana under a long-term lease that expired on February 28, 2010.  As a result of a court-sponsored mediation process, I&M agreed to purchase the leased assets from Fort Wayne.  The agreement was signed in October 2010 and is subject to approval by the IURC.  If the IURC does not approve the agreement or the recovery of the costs resulting from the agreement or the lease, it could reduce future net income and cash flows.




We may not recover costs incurred to begin construction on projects that are canceled.   (Applies to each registrant)




Our business plan for the construction of new projects involves a number of risks, including construction delays, nonperformance by equipment and other third party suppliers, and increases in equipment and labor costs. To limit the risks of these construction projects, we enter into equipment purchase orders and construction contracts and incur engineering and design service costs in advance of receiving necessary regulatory approvals and/or siting or environmental permits. If any of these projects is canceled for any reason, including our failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals and/or siting or environmental permits, we could incur significant cancellation penalties under the equipment purchase orders and construction contracts. In addition, if we have recorded any construction work or investments as a regulatory asset we m
ay need to impair that asset in the event the project is canceled.




Rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of capital improvements, additions and other costs.   (Applies to each registrant.)




Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions.  These rates are generally regulated based on an analysis of the applicable utility’s expenses incurred in a test year.  Thus, commission-approved rates may or may not match a utility’s expenses at any given time.  There may also be a delay between the timing of when these costs are incurred and when these costs are recovered.  Traditionally, we have financed capital investments and improvements until the new asset was placed in service.  Provided the asset was found to be a prudent investment, the asset was then added to rate base and entitled to a return through rate recovery.  Long lead times in construction, the high costs of plant and equipment a
nd difficult capital markets have heightened the risks involved in our capital investments and improvements. While we are actively pursuing strategies to accelerate rate recognition of investments and cash flow, including pre-approvals, a return on construction work in progress, rider/trackers, formula rates and the inclusion of future test-year projections into rates, there can be no assurance that these will be adopted, that the applicable regulatory commission will judge all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will be done in a timely manner.






  



26







  



Certain of our revenues and results of operations are subject to risks that are beyond our control.   (Applies to each registrant.)




Our operations are structured to comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations and we take measures to minimize the risk of significant disruptions.  Material disruptions at one or more of our operational facilities, however, could negatively impact our revenues, operating and capital expenditures and results of operations.  Such events may also create additional risks related to the supply and/or cost of equipment and materials.  We could experience unexpected but significant interruption due to several events, including:








·  


major facility or equipment failure;








·  


an environmental event such as a serious spill or release;








·  


fires, floods, droughts, earthquakes, hurricanes or other natural disasters;








·  


wars, terrorist acts or threats and other catastrophic events;








·  


significant health impairments or disease events, and;








·  


other serious operational problems.







We are exposed to nuclear generation risk. (Applies to AEP and I&M.)




Through I&M, we own the Cook Plant.  It consists of two nuclear generating units for a rated capacity of 2,191 MW, or 8-9% of the electricity we generate.  We are, therefore, subject to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the following:








·  


the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials such as spent nuclear fuel;











·  


limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations;











·  


uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessment amounts if insurance coverage is inadequate (federal law requires owners of nuclear units to purchase the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance and potentially contribute to the losses of others); and,











·  


uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives.







There can be no assurance that I&M’s preparations or risk mitigation measures will be adequate if and when these risks are triggered.




The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities.  In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants such as ours.  In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our plants, if an incident did occur, it could harm our results of operations or financial condition.  A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of an
y domestic nuclear unit.  Moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the U.S. could require us to make material contributory payments.






  



27







  



Costs associated with the operation (including fuel), maintenance and retirement of nuclear plants continue to be more significant and less predictable than costs associated with other sources of generation, in large part due to changing regulatory requirements and safety standards, availability of nuclear waste disposal facilities and experience gained in the operation of nuclear facilities.  Costs also may include replacement power, any unamortized investment at the end of the useful life of the Cook Plant (whether scheduled or premature), the carrying costs of that investment and retirement costs.  Our ability to obtain adequate and timely recovery of costs associated with the Cook Plant is not assured.




The different regional power markets in which we compete or will compete in the future have changing market and transmission structures, which could affect our performance in these regions.  (Applies to each registrant.)




Our results are likely to be affected by differences in the market and transmission structures in various regional power markets.  The rules governing the various regional power markets, including SPP and PJM, may also change from time to time which could affect our costs or revenues.  Because the manner in which RTOs will evolve remains unclear, we are unable to assess fully the impact that changes in these power markets may have on our business.




The amount we charged third parties for using our transmission facilities is subject to refund.  (Applies to AEP, APCo, CSPCo, I&M and OPCo.)




In July 2003, the FERC issued an order directing PJM and MISO to make compliance filings for their respective tariffs to eliminate the transaction-based charges for through and out (T&O) transmission service on transactions where the energy is delivered within those RTOs.  To mitigate the impact of lost T&O revenues, the FERC approved temporary replacement seams elimination cost allocation (SECA) transition rates beginning in December 2004 and extending through March 2006.  Because intervenors objected to this decision, the SECA fees we collected ($220 million) are subject to refund.  Some claims for refund have been settled, and we have recorded a provision for estimated settlement refunds for the remaining unsettled $108 million of gross SECA revenues collected.  Any payments in excess
 of the reserve balance could harm our results of operations and financial position.




We could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. (Applies to each registrant.)




As a result of EPACT, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC. These standards, which previously were being applied on a voluntary basis, became mandatory in June 2007. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and is guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. While we expect to recover costs and expenditures from customers through regulated rates, there can be no assurance that the applicable commissions will approve full recovery in a timely manner.  If we were f
ound not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, which likely would not be recoverable from customers through regulated rates.




At times, demand for power could exceed our supply capacity.   (Applies to each registrant.)




We are currently obligated to supply power in parts of eleven states.  From time to time, because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for power required to meet these obligations could exceed our available generation capacity.  If this occurs, we would have to buy power from the market.  This would increase the pressure on our short-term debt financing capacity in times of tight liquidity.  We may not always have the ability to pass these costs on to our customers, and the time lag between incurring costs and recovery can be long.  Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, it is possible that the market price for power at that time would be very high. Even if a supply shortage were brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could reduce our results 
of operations.

 



  



28







  



Risks Related to Market, Economic or Financial Volatility




If we are unable to access capital markets on reasonable terms, it could have an adverse impact on our net income, cash flows and financial condition.  (Applies to each registrant)




We rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows.  Volatility and reduced liquidity in the financial markets could affect our ability to raise capital and fund our capital needs, including construction costs and refinancing maturing indebtedness.  In addition, if capital is available only on less than reasonable terms or to borrowers whose creditworthiness is better than ours, capital costs could increase materially.  Restricted access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could have an adverse impact on net income, cash flows and financial condition.




Downgrades in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and/or to operate our power trading businesses.  (Applies to each registrant)




The credit ratings agencies periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings.  Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to us and could limit our access to funding for our operations.  Our business is capital intensive, and we are dependent upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive.  In periods of market turmoil, access to capital is difficult for all borrowers.  If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition could be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected.




Our power trading business relies on the investment grade ratings of our individual public utility subsidiaries’ senior unsecured long-term debt.  Most of our counterparties require the creditworthiness of an investment grade entity to stand behind transactions.  If those ratings were to decline below investment grade, our ability to operate our power trading business profitably would be diminished because we would likely have to deposit cash or cash-related instruments which would reduce our profits.




Our pension plan will require additional significant contributions. (Applies to each registrant.)




The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under our defined benefit pension plan.  The volatility of the capital markets in the past years has led to a decline in the market value of these assets. Also, a decline in interest rates on corporate bonds in 2010 has impacted the benchmark discount rate in a way that results in a higher calculated pension liability. Accordingly, our future required contributions to fund obligations under our defined benefit plan could increase significantly.




AEP has no income or cash flow apart from dividends paid or other obligations due it from its subsidiaries.  (Applies to AEP.)




AEP is a holding company and has no operations of its own.  Its ability to meet its financial obligations associated with its indebtedness and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries, primarily its regulated utilities, and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to, or repay loans from, AEP.  Its subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that have no obligation (apart from loans from AEP) to provide AEP with funds for its payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions or other payments. Payments to AEP by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon their earnings and business considerations. In addition, any payment of dividends, distributions or advances by the utility subsidiaries to AEP could be subject 
to regulatory restrictions.  AEP indebtedness and common stock dividends are structurally subordinated to all subsidiary indebtedness and preferred stock obligations.

 



  



29







  



Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal or quarterly basis and with general economic conditions.  (Applies to each registrant.)




Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business.  In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the terms of power sale contracts that we enter into.  In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder.  Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition.  Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase AEP’
s results of operations in a manner that would not likely be sustainable.




Further, deteriorating economic conditions generally result in reduced consumption by our customers, particularly industrial customers who may curtail operations or cease production entirely, while an expanding economic environment generally results in increased revenues.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate on the basis of prevailing economic conditions.




Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm our results of operations. (Applies to each registrant.)




Certain events, such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skillset or complement to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges and increased costs. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate our business.  If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified wor
kforce, our results of operations could be negatively affected.




Parties we have engaged to provide construction materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations.  (Applies to each registrant.)




Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, construction of additional generation units and transmission facilities as well as other initiatives.  We are exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of materials used in construction.  We have engaged numerous contractors and entered into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related services.  As a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that 
may exceed our contractual prices and almost certainly cause delays in that and related projects.  Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. This would cause our financial results to be diminished, and we might incur losses or delays in completing construction.




Changes in commodity prices and the costs of transport may increase our cost of producing power or decrease the amount we receive from selling power, harming our financial performance.  (Applies to each registrant.)




We are exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal and the price and availability to transport coal because most of our generating capacity is coal-fired.  We have contracts of varying durations for the supply of coal for most of our existing generation capacity, but as these contracts end or otherwise are not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts.  Similarly, we are exposed to changes in the price and availability of emission allowances.  We use emission allowances based on the amount of coal we use as fuel and the reductions achieved through emission controls and other measures.  According to our estimates, we have procured sufficient emission allowances to cover nearly all of our projected needs for the next two years as well 
as a majority of our needs beyond that timeframe.  At some future point, additional costs may be incurred if forthcoming regulation changes require supplemental allowances for compliance.  If and when we obtain additional allowances those purchases may not be on as favorable terms as those currently obtained.

 



  



30







  



We also own natural gas-fired facilities, which increases our exposure to market prices of natural gas.  Natural gas prices tend to be more volatile than prices for other fuel sources.  Our ability to make off-system sales at a profit is highly dependent on the price of natural gas.  As the price of natural gas falls, other market participants that utilize natural gas-fired generation will be able to offer electricity at increasingly competitive prices relative to our off-system sales prices, so the margins we realize from sales will be lower and, on occasion, we may need to curtail operation of marginal plants.




Prices for coal, natural gas and emission allowances have shown material upward and downward swings in the recent past.  Changes in the cost of coal, emission allowances or natural gas and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of power will affect our financial results.  Since the prices we obtain for power may not change at the same rate as the change in coal, emission allowances or natural gas costs, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers.




In addition, actual power prices and fuel costs will differ from those assumed in financial projections used to value our trading and marketing transactions, and those differences may be material.  As a result, our financial results may be diminished in the future as those transactions are marked to market.




Risks Relating to State Restructuring




Our customers have recently begun to select alternative electric generation service providers, as allowed by Ohio legislation. (Applies to AEP and CSPCo)

 

Under current Ohio legislation, electric generation is sold in a competitive market in Ohio, and our native load customers in Ohio have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service.  Competitive power suppliers are targeting retail customers by offering alternative generation service.   A growing number of CSPCo's commercial retail customers have switched to alternative generation providers while additional Ohio customers have provided notice of their intent to switch.  In 2010, CSPCo lost about 3% of its total load due to customer switching.  To date, OPCo’s losses have not been significant.  These evolving market conditions will continue to impact CSPCo's results of operations.




There is uncertainty as to our recovery of stranded costs resulting from industry restructuring in Texas.  (Applies to AEP.)




Restructuring legislation in Texas required utilities with stranded costs to use market-based methods to value certain generating assets for determining stranded costs.  We elected to use the sale of assets method to determine the market value of TCC’s generation assets for stranded cost purposes.  In general terms, the amount of stranded costs under this market valuation methodology is the amount by which the book value of generating assets, including regulatory assets and liabilities that were not securitized, exceeds the market value of the generation assets, as measured by the net proceeds from the sale of the assets.  In May 2005, TCC filed its stranded cost quantification application with the PUCT seeking recovery of $2.4 billion of net stranded generation costs and other recoverable true-up i
tems.  A final order was issued in April 2006.  In the final order, the PUCT determined TCC’s net stranded generation costs and other recoverable true-up items to be approximately $1.475 billion.  We have appealed the PUCT’s final order seeking additional recovery consistent with the Texas Restructuring Legislation and related rules, other parties have appealed the PUCT’s final order as unwarranted or too large.  Management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of any future court appeals or any future remanded PUCT proceeding.




Collection of our revenues in Texas is concentrated in a limited number of REPs.  (Applies to AEP.)




Our revenues from the distribution of electricity in the ERCOT area of Texas are collected from REPs that supply the electricity we distribute to their customers.  Currently, we do business with approximately one hundred REPs.  In 2010, TCC’s largest customer accounted for 25% of its operating revenue and its second largest customer accounted for 13% of its operating revenue; TNC’s largest customer (a non-utility affiliate) accounted for 29% of its operating revenues and its second largest customer accounted for 16% of its operating revenues.  Adverse economic conditions, structural problems in the Texas market or financial difficulties of one or more REPs could impair the ability of these REPs to pay for our services or could cause them to delay such payments.  We depend on these RE
Ps for timely remittance of payments.  Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect the timing and receipt of our cash flows and thereby have an adverse effect on our liquidity.






  



31







  



Risks Related to Owning and Operating Generation Assets and Selling Power




Our costs of compliance with existing environmental laws are significant.  (Applies to each registrant)




Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and health and safety.  Approximately 90% of the electricity generated by the AEP system is produced by the combustion of fossil fuels.  Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury and particulates from fossil fueled generating plants are potentially subject to increased regulations, controls and mitigation expenses.  Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees and permits at all of our facilities.  These expenditures have been significant in the past, and we expect that they wi
ll increase in the future.  Costs of compliance with environmental regulations could adversely affect our net income and financial position, especially if emission and/or discharge limits are tightened, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed, additional substances become regulated and the number and types of assets we operate increase.  While we expect to recover our expenditures for pollution control technologies, replacement generation and associated operating costs from customers through regulated rates (in regulated jurisdictions) or market prices, without such recovery those costs could reduce our future net income and cash flows, and possibly harm our financial condition.




Regulation of CO2 emissions, either through legislation or by the Federal EPA, could materially increase costs to us and our customers or cause some of our electric generating units to be uneconomical to <font style="DISPLAY: inline; FONT-WEIGHT
: bold">operate or maintain.  (Applies to each registrant)




In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy Security Act (ACES).  ACES is a comprehensive energy and global warming bill that includes a number of provisions that would directly affect our business, including energy efficiency and renewable electricity standards, funding for carbon capture and sequestration demonstration projects, CO2 emission standards, and an economy-wide cap and trade program for large sources of CO2 emissions that would reduce emissions by 17% in 2020 and just over 80
% by 2050 from 2005 levels.  Costs of compliance with the proposed legislation could adversely affect our net income and financial position.  This legislation did not become law.




Separately, in December 2009, the Federal EPA issued a final endangerment finding under the CAA regarding emissions from motor vehicles.  Several groups have filed challenges to the endangerment finding.  The endangerment finding will lead to regulation of CO2 and other gases under existing laws.  Management believes some policy approaches being discussed would have significant and widespread negative consequences for the national economy and major U.S. industrial enterprises, including us and our customers.




If CO2 and other emission standards are imposed, the standards could require significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs which would impact the ultimate retirement of older, less-efficient, coal-fired units.  While we expect that costs of complying with new CO2 and other GHG emission standards will be treated like all other reasonable costs of serving customers and should be recoverable from customers as costs of doing business, without such recovery those costs could reduce our future net income and cash flows and harm our financial condition.




Courts adjudicating nuisance and other similar claims against us may order us to limit or reduce our CO2 emissions.  (Applies to each registrant)




In 2004, eight states and the City of New York filed an action in Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York against AEP, Cinergy Corp, Xcel Energy, Southern Company and Tennessee Valley Authority.  The Natural Resources Defense Council, on behalf of three special interest groups, filed a similar complaint against the same defendants.  The actions allege that CO2 emissions from the defendants’ power plants constitute a public nuisance under federal common law due to impacts of global warming, and sought injunctive relief in the form of specific emission reduction commitments from the defendants.  The Second Circuit Court of Appeals reinstated this lawsuit on appeal after the lower court had dismissed it. 
; The U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear the defendants’ request for appeal.






  



32







  



The trial court adjudicating the reinstated nuisance claims may order the defendants, including us, to limit or reduce CO2 emissions.  This or similar remedies could require us to purchase power from third parties to fulfill our commitments to supply power to our customers.  This could have a material impact on our costs.  While management believes such costs should be recoverable from customers as costs of doing business, without such recovery those costs could reduce our future net income and cash flows and harm our financial condition.




If these or other future actions are resolved against us, substantial modifications of our existing coal-fired power plants could be required.  In addition, we could be required to invest significantly in additional emission control equipment, accelerate the timing of capital expenditures, pay penalties and/or halt operations.  Moreover, our results of operations and financial position could be reduced due to the timing of recovery of these investments and the expense of ongoing litigation.




We may not fully recover the costs of repairing or replacing damaged equipment in Cook Plant Unit 1 and may be required to pay additional accidental outage insurance proceeds to ratepayers.  (Applies to AEP and I&M)




Cook Plant Unit 1 is a 1,084 MW nuclear generating unit located in Bridgman, Michigan.  In September 2008, I&M shut down Cook Plant Unit 1 (Unit 1) due to turbine vibrations, caused by blade failure, which resulted in significant turbine damage and a small fire on the electric generator.  This equipment, located in the turbine building, is separate and isolated from the nuclear reactor.  The turbine rotors that caused the vibration were installed in 2006 and were within the vendor’s warranty period.  The warranty provides for the repair or replacement of the turbine rotors if the damage was caused by a defect in materials or workmanship.  Repair of the property damage and replacement of the turbine rotors and other equipment could cost up to approximately $<a name="Xbrl_Tag4"
>395 million.  Management believes that I&M should recover a significant portion of these costs through the turbine vendor’s warranty, insurance and the regulatory process.  I&M repaired Unit 1 and it resumed operations in December 2009 at slightly reduced power.  If the ultimate costs of the incident are not covered by warranty, insurance or through the regulatory process or if any future regulatory proceedings are adverse, it could have an adverse impact on net income, cash flows and financial condition.




Our revenues and results of operations from selling power are subject to market risks that are beyond our control.  (Applies to each registrant.)




We sell power from our generation facilities into the spot market and other competitive power markets on a contractual basis.  We also enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, emission allowances and coal as part of our power marketing and energy trading operations.  With respect to such transactions, the rate of return on our capital investments is not determined through mandated rates, and our revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power in our regional markets and other competitive markets.  These market prices can fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time.  Trading margins may erode as markets mature and there may be diminished opportunities for gain should volatility decline.
60; In addition, the FERC, which has jurisdiction over wholesale power rates, as well as RTOs that oversee some of these markets, may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in these markets.  Power supply and other similar agreements entered into during extreme market conditions may subsequently be held to be unenforceable by a reviewing court or the FERC.  Fuel and emissions prices may also be volatile, and the price we can obtain for power sales may not change at the same rate as changes in fuel and/or emissions costs.  These factors could reduce our margins and therefore diminish our revenues and results of operations.

 



  



33







  



Volatility in market prices for fuel and power may result from:








·  


weather conditions;








·  


outages of major generation or transmission facilities;








·  


seasonality;








·  


power usage;








·  


illiquid markets;








·  


transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies;








·  


availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources;








·  


demand for energy commodities;








·  


natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal production levels;








·  


natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and








·  


federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation.







Our power trading (including coal, gas and emission allowances trading and power marketing) and risk management policies cannot eliminate the risk associated with these activities.  (Applies to each registrant.)




Our power trading (including coal, gas and emission allowances trading and power marketing) activities expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We attempt to manage our exposure by establishing and enforcing risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with these activities. As a result, we cannot predict the impact that our energy trading and risk management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position.




We routinely have open trading positions in the market, within guidelines we set, resulting from the management of our trading portfolio. To the extent open trading positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve or diminish our financial results and financial position.




Our power trading and risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as the future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. These factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. Even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate.




Our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to operate our electric generating facilities successfully.  (Applies to each registrant.)




Our performance is highly dependent on the successful operation of our electric generating facilities. Operating electric generating facilities involves many risks, including:








·  


operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes;








·  


operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements;








·  


labor disputes;








·  


fuel supply interruptions caused by transportation constraints, adverse weather, non-performance by our suppliers and other factors; and








·  


catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, hurricanes, terrorism, floods or other similar occurrences.







A decrease or elimination of revenues from power produced by our electric generating facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would adversely affect our results of operations.

 



  



34







  



Parties with whom we have contracts may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations.  (Applies to each registrant.)




We are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money or power could breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses. Although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by a counterparty may be greater than the estimates predict.




We rely on electric transmission facilities that we do not own or control. If these facilities do not provide us with adequate transmission capacity, we may not be able to deliver our wholesale electric power to the purchasers of our power.  (Applies to each registrant.)




We depend on transmission facilities owned and operated by other unaffiliated power companies to deliver the power we sell at wholesale. This dependence exposes us to a variety of risks. If transmission is disrupted, or transmission capacity is inadequate, we may not be able to sell and deliver our wholesale power. If a region’s power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, our recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. If restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmis
sion infrastructure.




The FERC has issued electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales. Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions for electricity and gas, access to transmission systems may in fact not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. We also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets.




We do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities.  (Applies to each registrant.)




We routinely enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, coal and emission allowances as part of our power marketing and energy and emission allowances trading operations. In connection with these trading activities, we routinely enter into financial contracts, including futures and options, over-the counter options, financially-settled swaps and other derivative contracts. These activities expose us to risks from price movements. If the values of the financial contracts change in a manner we do not anticipate, it could harm our financial position or reduce the financial contribution of our trading operations.




We manage our exposure by establishing risk limits and entering into contracts to offset some of our positions (i.e., to hedge our exposure to demand, market effects of weather and other changes in commodity prices). However, we do not always hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position may be improved or diminished based upon our success in the market.




Financial derivatives reforms could increase the liquidity needs and costs of our commercial trading operations.  (Applies to each registrant.)




In July 2010, federal legislation was enacted to reform financial markets that significantly alter how over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives are regulated.  The law increased regulatory oversight of OTC energy derivatives, including (1) requiring standardized OTC derivatives to be traded on registered exchanges regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), (2) imposing new and potentially higher capital and margin requirements and (3) authorizing the establishment of overall volume and position limits.  The law gives the CFTC authority to exempt end users of energy commodities which could reduce, but not eliminate, the applicability of these measures to us and other end users.  These requirements could cause our OTC transactions to be more costly and have an adverse effect on our liquidity du
e to additional capital requirements.  In addition, as these reforms aim to standardize OTC products it could limit the effectiveness of our hedging programs because we would have less ability to tailor OTC derivatives to match the precise risk we are seeking to manage.




  



35







  




ITEM 1B