ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS




GENERAL RISKS OF OUR REGULATED OPERATIONS


 

The regulatory environment in Ohio has recently become unpredictable and increasingly uncertain. – Affecting AEP and OPCo




For some time, our retail sales of electricity in Ohio have accounted for approximately 30% of our utilities segment revenue.  Due to a number of reasons, including commission turnover and a renewed emphasis on deregulation, the regulatory environment in Ohio has become increasingly unpredictable.  The current regulatory environment in Ohio could result in an extended period of uncertainty and cause our financial performance in Ohio to be volatile and difficult to project.




We may not be able to recover the costs of our substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions. – Affecting each Registrant




Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades and retrofits, construction and/or acquisition of additional generation units and transmission facilities, modernizing existing infrastructure as well as other initiatives.  Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions.  If these regulatory commissions do not approve adjustments to the rates we charge, we would not be able to recover the costs associated with our planned extensive investment.  This would cause our financial results to be diminished.  While we may seek to limit the impact of any denied recovery by attempting to reduce the scope of our capital investment, there can be no assurance as to the effectiveness of any such mitigation efforts, particularly with respect to previously incurred costs and commitments.


Rate and other recovery in Ohio for distribution service may not provide full recovery of costs. – Affecting AEP and OPCo




In February 2011, OPCo filed with the PUCO for an annual increase in distribution rates.  In December 2011, a stipulation agreement was approved by the PUCO providing recovery of certain distribution regulatory assets.  Due to a February 2012 PUCO ESP rehearing order, which rejected the ESP modified stipulation, collection of the Distribution Investment Rider terminated.  If OPCo is not ultimately permitted to fully recover its deferrals and costs, it would reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.




Rate recovery in Ohio for generation service may not provide full recovery of costs. – Affecting AEP and OPCo




In January 2011, OPCo filed an application with the PUCO to approve a new ESP that included a standard service offer pricing for generation.  In December 2011, a modified stipulation agreement was approved by the PUCO which involved various issues pending before the PUCO, including generation rates and the recovery of fuel costs.  In February 2012, the PUCO issued an entry on rehearing which rejected the ESP approved modified stipulation and ordered a return to the 2011 ESP rates until a new rate plan is approved.  Under the February 2012 rehearing order, OPCo has 30 days to notify the PUCO whether it plans to modify or withdraw its original application as filed in January 2011.  Management is currently evaluating its options and the potential financial and operational impacts on OPCo.  If OPCo is not ultimately permitted to fully recover its costs, it would reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.


Rate recovery approved in Ohio may have to be returned and/or may not provide full recovery of costs. – Affecting AEP and OPCo




The PUCO issued an order in March 2009 that modified and approved the Electric Security Plan (ESP) which established rates through 2011.  The ESP order generally authorized rate increases during the ESP period, subject to caps that limit the rate increases, and also provides a fuel adjustment clause for the three-year period of the ESP.  The recovery under the fuel adjustment clause includes deferrals associated with the Ormet interim arrangement and is subject to the PUCO’s ultimate decision regarding the Ormet interim arrangement deferrals plus related carrying charges.  In July 2011, OPCo filed its 2010 SEET filing with the PUCO.  If the PUCO and/or the Supreme Court of Ohio reverses all or part of the rate recovery or if deferred fuel costs are not fully recovered for other reasons, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.





  



26







  




 

Oklahoma may require us to refund fuel costs that we have collected. – Affecting PSO



 

In July 2009, the OCC initiated a proceeding to review PSO’s fuel and purchased power adjustment clause for the calendar year 2008 and also initiated a prudence review of the related costs.  In March 2010, the Oklahoma Attorney General and an intervenor recommended the fuel clause adjustment rider be amended to decrease the shareholder’s portion of off-system sales margins from 25% to 10%.  That intervenor also recommended that the OCC conduct a comprehensive review of all affiliate fuel transactions during 2007 and 2008.  In July 2010, additional testimony regarding the 2007 transfer of ERCOT trading contracts to AEP Energy Partners was filed.  Included in this testimony were unquantified refund recommendations relating to re-pricing of contract transactions.  If the OCC were to issue an unfavorable decision, it would reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
 

We may not recover costs incurred to begin construction on projects that are canceled. – Affecting each Registrant




Our business plan for the construction of new projects involves a number of risks, including construction delays, nonperformance by equipment and other third party suppliers, and increases in equipment and labor costs.  To limit the risks of these construction projects, we enter into equipment purchase orders and construction contracts and incur engineering and design service costs in advance of receiving necessary regulatory approvals and/or siting or environmental permits.  If any of these projects is canceled for any reason, including our failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals and/or siting or environmental permits, we could incur significant cancellation penalties under the equipment purchase orders and construction contracts.  In addition, if we have recorded any construction work or investments as a regulatory asset we may need to impair that asset in the event the project is canceled.


Rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of capital improvements, additions and other costs. – Affecting each Registrant




Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions.  These rates are generally regulated based on an analysis of the applicable utility’s expenses incurred in a test year.  Thus, commission-approved rates may or may not match a utility’s expenses at any given time.  There may also be a delay between the timing of when these costs are incurred and when these costs are recovered.  Traditionally, we have financed capital investments and improvements until the new asset was placed in service.  Provided the asset was found to be a prudent investment, the asset was then added to rate base and entitled to a return through rate recovery.  Long lead times in construction, the high costs of plant and equipment and volatile capital markets have heightened the risks involved in our capital investments and improvements.  While we are actively pursuing strategies to accelerate rate recognition of investments and cash flow, including pre-approvals, a return on construction work in progress, rider/trackers, formula rates and the inclusion of future test-year projections into rates, there can be no assurance that these will be adopted, that the applicable regulatory commission will judge all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will be done in a timely manner.


 




  



27







  




 

 


Certain of our revenues and results of operations are subject to risks that are beyond our control. – Affecting each Registrant




Our operations are structured to comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations and we take measures to minimize the risk of significant disruptions.  Material disruptions at one or more of our operational facilities, however, could negatively impact our revenues, operating and capital expenditures and results of operations.  Such events may also create additional risks related to the supply and/or cost of equipment and materials.  We could experience unexpected but significant interruption due to several events, including, but not limited to:








·    


Major facility or equipment failure.








·    


An environmental event such as a serious spill or release.








·    


Fires, floods, droughts, earthquakes, hurricanes or other natural disasters.








·    


Wars, terrorist acts (including cyber-terrorism) or threats and other catastrophic events.








·    


Significant health impairments or disease events.









·    


Other serious operational problems.





We are exposed to nuclear generation risk. – Affecting AEP and I&M




Through I&M, we own the Cook Plant.  It consists of two nuclear generating units for a rated capacity of 2,191 MW, or 8-9% of the electricity generated by the AEP System.  We are, therefore, subject to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the following:








·    


The potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials such as spent nuclear fuel.








·    


Limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations.








·    


Uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessment amounts if insurance coverage is inadequate (federal law requires owners of nuclear units to purchase the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance and potentially contribute to the losses of others).








·    


Uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives.







There can be no assurance that I&M’s preparations or risk mitigation measures will be adequate if and when these risks are triggered.




The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities.  In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants such as ours.  In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our plants, if an incident did occur, it could harm our results of operations or financial condition.  A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit.  Moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the U.S. could require us to make material contributory payments.


Costs associated with the operation (including fuel), maintenance and retirement of nuclear plants continue to be more significant and less predictable than costs associated with other sources of generation, in large part due to changing regulatory requirements and safety standards, availability of nuclear waste disposal facilities and experience gained in the operation of nuclear facilities.  Costs also may include replacement power, any unamortized investment at the end of the useful life of the Cook Plant (whether scheduled or premature), the carrying costs of that investment and retirement costs.  Our ability to obtain adequate and timely recovery of costs associated with the Cook Plant is not assured.







  



28







  




 


As a result of the nuclear plant situation in Japan following a March 2011 earthquake, the NRC has initiated a review of safety procedures and requirements for nuclear generating facilities.  This review could increase procedures and testing requirements, require physical modifications to the plant and increase future operating costs at the Cook Plant.  In addition to the review by the NRC, Congress could consider legislation tightening oversight of nuclear generating facilities.  We are unable to predict the impact of potential future regulation of nuclear facilities.




The different regional power markets in which we compete or will compete in the future have changing market and transmission structures, which could affect our performance in these regions. – Affecting each Registrant




Our results are likely to be affected by differences in the market and transmission structures in various regional power markets.  The rules governing the various regional power markets, including SPP and PJM, may also change from time to time which could affect our costs or revenues.  Because the manner in which RTOs will evolve remains unclear, we are unable to assess fully the impact that changes in these power markets may have on our business.


 

The amount we charged third parties for using our transmission facilities is subject to refund. – Affecting each Registrant




In July 2003, the FERC issued an order directing PJM and MISO to make compliance filings for their respective tariffs to eliminate the transaction-based charges for through and out (T&O) transmission service on transactions where the energy is delivered within those RTOs.  To mitigate the impact of lost T&O revenues, the FERC approved temporary replacement seams elimination cost allocation (SECA) transition rates beginning in December 2004 and extending through March 2006.  Because intervenors objected to this decision, the SECA fees we collected ($220 million) are subject to refund.  Some claims for refund have been settled, and we have recorded a provision for estimated settlement refunds for the remaining unsettled $108 million of gross SECA revenues collected.  Any payments in excess of the reserve balance could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.


We could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. – Affecting each Registrant




As a result of EPACT, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC.  These standards, which previously were being applied on a voluntary basis, became mandatory in June 2007.  The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles.  Compliance with new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures.  While we expect to recover costs and expenditures from customers through regulated rates, there can be no assurance that the applicable commissions will approve full recovery in a timely manner.  If we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, which likely would not be recoverable from customers through regulated rates.


At times, demand for power could exceed our supply capacity. – Affecting each Registrant




We are currently obligated to supply power in parts of eleven states.  From time to time, because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for power required to meet these obligations could exceed our available generation capacity.  If this occurs, we would have to buy power from the market.  This would increase the pressure on our short-term debt financing capacity in times of tight liquidity.  We may not always have the ability to pass these costs on to our customers, and the time lag between incurring costs and recovery can be long.  Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, it is possible that the market price for power at that time would be very high.  Even if a supply shortage were brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could reduce our results of operations.


  



29







  




RISKS RELATED TO MARKET, ECONOMIC OR FINANCIAL VOLATILITY AND OTHER RISKS




Our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities or perform certain corporate functions. – Affecting each Registrant




Our performance is highly dependent on the successful operation of our generation, transmission and distribution facilities.  Operating these facilities involves many risks, including:








·  


Operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes.








·  


Operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements.








·  


Labor disputes.








·  


Compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards.








·  


Information technology failure that impairs our information technology infrastructure or disrupts normal business operations.








·  


Information technology failure that affects our ability to access customer information or causes us to lose confidential or proprietary data that materially and adversely affects our reputation or exposes us to legal claims.








·  


Fuel or water supply interruptions caused by transportation constraints, adverse weather such as drought, non-performance by our suppliers and other factors.








·  


Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, hurricanes, terrorism (including cyber-terrorism), floods or other similar occurrences.







We may be subject to disruptions or failures in our information technology systems and network infrastructures that could have a material adverse effect on us. – Affecting each Registrant




We maintain and rely extensively on information technology systems and network infrastructures for the effective operation of our business.  We also hold large amounts of data in various data center facilities which our business depends upon.  A disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems or any of our data centers as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, computer viruses, cyber attacks, employee theft or misuse, power disruptions, natural disasters or accidents could cause breaches of data security and loss of critical data, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business.  Our security procedures, such as virus protection software, cyber security and our business continuity planning, such as our disaster recovery policies and back-up systems, may not be adequate or implemented properly to fully address the adverse effect of such events, which could adversely impact our operations.  In addition, our business could be adversely affected to the extent we do not make the appropriate level of investment in our technology systems as our technology systems become out-of-date or obsolete.


If we are unable to access capital markets on reasonable terms, it could have an adverse impact on our net income, cash flows and financial condition. – Affecting each Registrant




We rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows.  Volatility and reduced liquidity in the financial markets could affect our ability to raise capital and fund our capital needs, including construction costs and refinancing maturing indebtedness.  In addition, if capital is available only on less than reasonable terms or to borrowers whose creditworthiness is better than ours, capital costs could increase materially.  Restricted access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could have an adverse impact on net income, cash flows and financial condition.




Downgrades in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and/or to operate our power trading businesses. – Affecting each Registrant




The credit ratings agencies periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings.  Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to us and could limit our access to funding for our operations.  Our business is capital intensive, and we are dependent upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive.  In periods of market turmoil, access to capital is difficult for all borrowers.  If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition could be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected.






  



30







  



Our power trading business relies on the investment grade ratings of our individual public utility subsidiaries’ senior unsecured long-term debt or on the investment grade ratings of AEP parent.  Most of our counterparties require the creditworthiness of an investment grade entity to stand behind transactions.  If those ratings were to decline below investment grade, our ability to operate our power trading business profitably would be diminished because we would likely have to deposit cash or cash-related instruments which would reduce our profits.




Our pension plan could require additional significant contributions. – Affecting each Registrant




The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under our defined benefit pension plan.  The volatility of the capital markets in the past years has affected the market value of these assets.  Also, a decline in interest rates on corporate bonds in 2011 has impacted the benchmark discount rate in a way that results in a higher calculated pension liability.  Accordingly, our future required contributions to fund obligations under our defined benefit plan could be more than expected.




AEP has no income or cash flow apart from dividends paid or other obligations due it from its subsidiaries. – Affecting AEP




AEP is a holding company and has no operations of its own.  Its ability to meet its financial obligations associated with its indebtedness and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries, primarily its regulated utilities, and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to, or repay loans from, AEP.  Its subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that have no obligation (apart from loans from AEP) to provide AEP with funds for its payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions or other payments.  Payments to AEP by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon their earnings and business considerations.  In addition, any payment of dividends, distributions or advances by the utility subsidiaries to AEP could be subject to regulatory restrictions.  AEP indebtedness and common stock dividends are structurally subordinated to all subsidiary indebtedness and preferred stock obligations.


Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal or quarterly basis and with general economic and weather conditions. – Affecting each Registrant




Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business.  In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the terms of power sale contracts that we enter into.  In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder.  Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition.  Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase AEP’s results of operations in a manner that would not likely be sustainable.


Further, deteriorating economic conditions generally result in reduced consumption by our customers, particularly industrial customers who may curtail operations or cease production entirely, while an expanding economic environment generally results in increased revenues.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate on the basis of prevailing economic conditions.




Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm our results of operations. – Affecting each Registrant




Certain events, such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skillset or complement to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges and increased costs.  The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development.  In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise.  Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate our business.  If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be negatively affected.




  



31







  



Parties we have engaged to provide construction materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. – Affecting each Registrant




Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, construction of additional generation units and transmission facilities as well as other initiatives.  We are exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of materials used in construction.  We have engaged numerous contractors and entered into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related services.  As a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us.  Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and almost certainly cause delays in that and related projects.  Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions.  This would cause our financial results to be diminished, and we might incur losses or delays in completing construction.


Changes in commodity prices and the costs of transport may increase our cost of producing power or decrease the amount we receive from selling power, harming our financial performance. – Affecting each Registrant




We are exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal and the price and availability to transport coal because most of our generating capacity is coal-fired.  We have contracts of varying durations for the supply of coal for most of our existing generation capacity, but as these contracts end or otherwise are not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts.  Similarly, we are exposed to changes in the price and availability of emission allowances.  We use emission allowances based on the amount of coal we use as fuel and the reductions achieved through emission controls and other measures.  As long as current environmental programs remain in effect, we have sufficient emission allowances to cover nearly all of our projected needs for the next two years as well as a majority of our needs beyond that timeframe.  If the Federal EPA’s replacement rule to reduce interstate transport were to take effect, additional costs may be incurred to acquire supplemental allowances for compliance or to achieve further reductions in emissions.  If and when we obtain additional allowances those purchases may not be on as favorable terms as those currently obtained.  Our risks relative to the price and availability to transport coal include the volatility of the price of diesel which is the primary fuel used in transporting coal by barge.


We also own natural gas-fired facilities which increases our exposure to market prices of natural gas.  Natural gas prices tend to be more volatile than prices for other fuel sources.  Our ability to make off-system sales at a profit is highly dependent on the price of natural gas.  As the price of natural gas falls, other market participants that utilize natural gas-fired generation will be able to offer electricity at increasingly competitive prices relative to our off-system sales prices, so the margins we realize from sales will be lower and, on occasion, we may need to curtail operation of marginal plants.  The availability of shale natural gas and issues related to its accessibility may have a long-term material effect on the price of natural gas.




Prices for coal, natural gas and emission allowances have shown material upward and downward swings in the recent past.  Changes in the cost of coal, emission allowances or natural gas and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of power will affect our financial results.  Since the prices we obtain for power may not change at the same rate as the change in coal, emission allowances or natural gas costs, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers.




In addition, actual power prices and fuel costs will differ from those assumed in financial projections used to value our trading and marketing transactions, and those differences may be material.  As a result, our financial results may be diminished in the future as those transactions are marked to market.




  



32







  




RISKS RELATING TO STATE RESTRUCTURING




We are unable to fully predict the effects of legal separation in Ohio and becoming subject to market forces. – Affecting AEP and OPCo




In January 2012, the PUCO approved the corporate separation plan of OPCo’s generation assets to complete the transition to a fully competitive generation market by June 2015.  The corporate separation plan also would require approval by the FERC under provisions of the Federal Power Act.  In February 2012, as part of the PUCO’s entry on rehearing which rejected the ESP approved modified stipulation, the PUCO revoked its approval of OPCo’s corporate separation plan.  Also, in February 2012, prior to the PUCO revoking OPCo’s corporate separation plan, an application was filed with the FERC seeking approval, among other things, to transfer OPCo’s generation assets to APCo, KPCo and a nonregulated AEP subsidiary.  If we can obtain regulatory approvals, our results of operations related to Ohio generation would be determined by our ability to sell power at a profit at rates determined by the prevailing market.  As a result of the February 2012 ESP rehearing order, we are in the process of withdrawing the PUCO and FERC applications.  We intend to file new FERC and PUCO applications related to corporate separation.  We can give no assurance that the PUCO or the FERC will not impose material adverse terms as a condition to approving our legal separation.  Additionally, certain of our generation units may no longer be cost effective and may be retired prior to the end of their anticipated useful life.  Because such generation assets are no longer subject to cost recovery regulation, this could result in material impairments. 

We are unable to predict the consequences of terminating the Interconnection Agreement and breaking up the AEP Power Pool. – Affecting AEP, APCo, I&M and OPCo




The proposed corporate separation plans of OPCo’s generation assets will require us to either terminate or substantially alter the Interconnection Agreement.  The Interconnection Agreement establishes the AEP Power Pool which permits AEP East companies to share costs and benefits associated with their generating plants on a cost basis.  It is unknown at this time whether the AEP Power Pool will be replaced by a new agreement among some or all of the members, whether individual companies will enter into bi-lateral or multi-party contracts with each other for power sales and purchases or asset transfers or if each company will choose to operate independently.  If the AEP Power Pool is terminated without any subsequent agreements between some or all of the parties, surplus members will no longer automatically sell to deficit members, and they may not be able to otherwise sell that surplus in amounts or at rates equal to what they obtained under the Interconnection Agreement.  Conversely, deficit members will no longer automatically purchase from surplus members, and they may not be able to otherwise purchase in amounts or at rates equal to what they obtained under the Interconnection Agreement.  The possible loss of these sales by the surplus members and the potential increase in costs for the deficit members could reduce future net income and cash flows.  We have filed with the FERC seeking approval of the termination of the Interconnection Agreement, the implementation of a power cost sharing agreement between APCo, I&M and KPCo, and to transfer certain generation assets from OPCo to APCo, KPCo and a nonregulated AEP subsidiary.  As a result of the February 2012 ESP rehearing order, we are in the process of withdrawing the PUCO and FERC applications.  We intend to file new FERC and PUCO applications related to corporate separation.  We can give no assurance that the FERC or other state utility commissions will not impose material adverse terms as a condition to approving these arrangements and the termination of the Interconnection Agreement.


Customers are choosing alternative electric generation service providers, as allowed by Ohio law and regulation. – Affecting AEP and OPCo




Under current Ohio law, electric generation is sold in a competitive market in Ohio and native load customers in Ohio have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service.  Competitive power suppliers are targeting retail customers by offering alternative generation service.  A growing number of commercial retail customers have switched to alternative generation providers while additional Ohio customers have provided notice of their intent to switch.  In 2011, we lost approximately 10% of our Ohio load due to customer switching.  Currently, there are no limitations on the obligation to provide below cost capacity rate pricing to alternative suppliers to support customers switching in Ohio.  These evolving market conditions will continue to impact our results of operations.


  



33







  






Collection of our revenues in Texas is concentrated in a limited number of REPs. – Affecting AEP




Our revenues from the distribution of electricity in the ERCOT area of Texas are collected from REPs that supply the electricity we distribute to their customers.  Currently, we do business with approximately one hundred REPs.  In 2011, TCC’s largest customer accounted for 22% of its operating revenue and its second largest customer accounted for 12% of its operating revenue; TNC’s largest customer (a non-utility affiliate) accounted for 28% of its operating revenues and its second largest customer accounted for 15% of its operating revenues.  Adverse economic conditions, structural problems in the Texas market or financial difficulties of one or more REPs could impair the ability of these REPs to pay for our services or could cause them to delay such payments.  We depend on these REPs for timely remittance of payments.  Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect the timing and receipt of our cash flows and thereby have an adverse effect on our liquidity.


RISKS RELATED TO OWNING AND OPERATING GENERATION ASSETS AND SELLING POWER




Our costs of compliance with existing environmental laws are significant. – Affecting each Registrant




Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and health and safety.  Approximately 90% of the electricity generated by the AEP System is produced by the combustion of fossil fuels.  Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury and particulates from fossil fueled generating plants are subject to increased regulations, controls and mitigation expenses.  Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees and permits at all of our facilities and could cause us to retire generating capacity prior to the end of its estimated useful life.  These expenditures have been significant in the past and we expect that they will continue to be significant in order to comply with the current and proposed regulations.  Costs of compliance with environmental regulations could adversely affect our net income and financial position, especially if emission and/or discharge limits are tightened, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed, additional substances become regulated and the number and types of assets we operate increase.  If we retire generating plants prior to the end of their estimated useful life, there can be no assurance that we will recover the remaining costs associated with such plants.  While we expect to recover our expenditures for pollution control technologies, replacement generation and associated operating costs from customers through regulated rates (in regulated jurisdictions) or market prices, without such recovery those costs could reduce our future net income and cash flows and possibly harm our financial condition.


Regulation of CO2 emissions, either through legislation or by the Federal EPA, could materially increase costs to us and our customers or cause some of our electric generating units to be uneconomical to operate or maintain. – Affecting each Registrant




The U.S. Congress has not taken any significant steps toward enacting legislation to control CO2 emissions since 2009.  In December 2009, the Federal EPA issued a final endangerment finding under the CAA regarding emissions from motor vehicles.  The Federal EPA also finalized CO2 emission standards for new motor vehicles, and issued a rule that implements a permitting program for new and modified stationary sources of CO2 emissions in a phased manner through 2014.  Several groups have filed challenges to the endangerment finding and the Federal EPA’s subsequent rulemakings.  The Federal EPA has announced its intent to propose a CO2 emissions standard for new power generation sources during the next year.  Management believes some policy approaches being discussed would have significant and widespread negative consequences for the national economy and major U.S. Industrial enterprises, including us and our customers.


If CO2 and other emission standards are imposed, the standards could require significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs which would impact the ultimate retirement of older, less-efficient, coal-fired units.  While we expect that costs of complying with new CO2 and other GHG emission standards will be treated like all other reasonable costs of serving customers and should be recoverable from customers as costs of doing business, without such recovery those costs could reduce our future net income and cash flows and harm our financial condition.




  



34







  




Courts adjudicating nuisance and other similar claims against us may order us to pay damages or to limit or reduce our CO2 emissions. – Affecting each Registrant




There are a number of pending cases seeking damages based on allegations of federal and state common law nuisance in which we, among others, are defendants.  In general, the actions allege that CO2 emissions from the defendants’ power plants constitute a public nuisance due to impacts of global warming and climate change.  The plaintiffs in these actions seek recovery of damages and other relief.  If these or other future actions are resolved against us, substantial modifications of our existing coal-fired power plants could be required and we might be required to limit or reduce CO2 emissions.  Such remedies could require us to purchase power from third parties to fulfill our commitments to supply power to our customers.  This could have a material impact on our costs.  In addition, we could be required to invest significantly in additional emission control equipment, accelerate the timing of capital expenditures, pay damages or penalties and/or halt operations.  While management believes such costs should be recoverable from customers as costs of doing business in our jurisdictions where generation rates are set on a cost of service basis, without such recovery those costs could reduce our future net income and cash flows and harm our financial condition.  Moreover, our results of operations and financial position could be reduced due to the timing of recovery of these investments and the expense of ongoing litigation.


We may not fully recover the costs of repairing or replacing damaged equipment in Cook Plant Unit 1 and may be required to pay additional accidental outage insurance proceeds to ratepayers. – Affecting AEP and I&M




Cook Plant Unit 1 is a 1,084 MW nuclear generating unit located in Bridgman, Michigan.  In September 2008, I&M shut down Cook Plant Unit 1 (Unit 1) due to turbine vibrations, caused by blade failure, which resulted in significant turbine damage and a small fire on the electric generator.  This equipment, located in the turbine building, is separate and isolated from the nuclear reactor.  The turbine rotors that caused the vibration were installed in 2006 and were within the vendor’s warranty period.  The warranty provides for the repair or replacement of the turbine rotors if the damage was caused by a defect in materials or workmanship.  Repair of the property damage and replacement of the turbine rotors and other equipment cost approximately $400 million.  Management believes that I&M should recover a significant portion of these costs through the turbine vendor’s warranty, insurance and the regulatory process.  I&M repaired Unit 1.  It resumed operations in 2009 at slightly reduced power and a full-capacity blade was installed in 2011.  If the ultimate costs of the incident are not covered by warranty, insurance or through the regulatory process or if any future regulatory proceedings are adverse, it could have an adverse impact on net income, cash flows and financial condition.


 



  



35







  



 


Our revenues and results of operations from selling power are subject to market risks that are beyond our control. – Affecting each Registrant




We sell power from our generation facilities into the spot market and other competitive power markets on a contractual basis.  We also enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, emission allowances and coal as part of our power marketing and energy trading operations.  With respect to such transactions, the rate of return on our capital investments is not determined through mandated rates, and our revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power in our regional markets and other competitive markets.  These market prices can fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time.  Trading margins may erode as markets mature and there may be diminished opportunities for gain should volatility decline.  In addition, the FERC, which has jurisdiction over wholesale power rates, as well as RTOs that oversee some of these markets, may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in these markets.  Power supply and other similar agreements entered into during extreme market conditions may subsequently be held to be unenforceable by a reviewing court or the FERC.  Fuel and emissions prices may also be volatile, and the price we can obtain for power sales may not change at the same rate as changes in fuel and/or emissions costs.  These factors could reduce our margins and therefore diminish our revenues and results of operations.  Volatility in market prices for fuel and power may result from: 





·  


Weather conditions.







·  


Outages of major generation or transmission facilities.








·  


Seasonality.








·  


Power usage.








·  


Illiquid markets.








·  


Transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies.










·  


Availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources.







·  


Demand for energy commodities.








·  


Natural gas, crude oil and refined products and coal production levels.








·  


Natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events.








·  


Federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation.





 

Our power trading (including coal, gas and emission allowances trading and power marketing) and risk management policies cannot eliminate the risk associated with these activities. – Affecting each Registrant




Our power trading (including coal, gas and emission allowances trading and power marketing) activities expose us to risks of commodity price movements.  We attempt to manage our exposure by establishing and enforcing risk limits and risk management procedures.  These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with these activities.  As a result, we cannot predict the impact that our energy trading and risk management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position.




We routinely have open trading positions in the market, within guidelines we set, resulting from the management of our trading portfolio.  To the extent open trading positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve or diminish our financial results and financial position.




Our power trading and risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as the future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities.  These factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made.  Even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate.









  



36







  



 


Parties with whom we have contracts may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. – Affecting each Registrant




We are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money or power could breach their obligations.  Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses.  Although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by a counterparty may be greater than the estimates predict.




We rely on electric transmission facilities that we do not own or control.  If these facilities do not provide us with adequate transmission capacity, we may not be able to deliver our wholesale electric power to the purchasers of our power. – Affecting each Registrant




We depend on transmission facilities owned and operated by other nonaffiliated power companies to deliver the power we sell at wholesale.  This dependence exposes us to a variety of risks.  If transmission is disrupted, or transmission capacity is inadequate, we may not be able to sell and deliver our wholesale power.  If a region’s power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, our recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited.  If restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure.




The FERC has issued electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales.  Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions for electricity and gas, access to transmission systems may in fact not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable.  We also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets.




We do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. – Affecting each Registrant


 

We routinely enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, coal and emission allowances as part of our power marketing and energy and emission allowances trading operations.  In connection with these trading activities, we routinely enter into financial contracts, including futures and options, over-the counter options, financially-settled swaps and other derivative contracts.  These activities expose us to risks from price movements.  If the values of the financial contracts change in a manner we do not anticipate, it could harm our financial position or reduce the financial contribution of our trading operations.




We manage our exposure by establishing risk limits and entering into contracts to offset some of our positions (i.e., to hedge our exposure to demand, market effects of weather and other changes in commodity prices).  However, we do not always hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility.  To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position may be improved or diminished based upon our success in the market.




Financial derivatives reforms could increase the liquidity needs and costs of our commercial trading operations. – Affecting each Registrant




In July 2010, federal legislation was enacted to reform financial markets that significantly alter how over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives are regulated.  The law increased regulatory oversight of OTC energy derivatives, including (1) requiring standardized OTC derivatives to be traded on registered exchanges regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), (2) imposing new and potentially higher capital and margin requirements and (3) authorizing the establishment of overall volume and position limits.  The law gives the CFTC authority to exempt end users of energy commodities which could reduce, but not eliminate, the applicability of these measures to us and other end users.  These requirements could cause our OTC transactions to be more costly and have an adverse effect on our liquidity due to additional capital requirements.  In addition, as these reforms aim to standardize OTC products it could limit the effectiveness of our hedging programs because we would have less ability to tailor OTC derivatives to match the precise risk we are seeking to manage.


  



37







  



 

ITEM 1B