ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS




GENERAL RISKS OF OUR REGULATED OPERATIONS




We may not be able to recover the costs of our substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions. – Affecting each Registrant




Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades and retrofits, construction of additional transmission facilities, modernizing existing infrastructure as well as other initiatives.  Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions.  If these regulatory commissions do not approve adjustments to the rates we charge, we would not be able to recover the costs associated with our planned extensive investment.  This would cause our financial results to be diminished.




Approval of the June 2012 through May 2015 ESP order in Ohio may be overturned and is subject to appeal. – Affecting AEP and OPCo




In August 2012, the PUCO issued an order which adopted and modified an ESP through May 2015 (the “2012 ESP”).  The 2012 ESP allowed the continuation of the fuel adjustment clause, maintained recovery of several previous ESP riders and approved a storm damage recovery mechanism.  The 2012 ESP further established (a) a non-bypassable Distribution Investment Rider effective September 2012 through May 2015 to recover certain distribution investment, and (b) a non-bypassable Retail Stability Rider (RSR), a portion of which provides for the collection of deferred capacity costs.  The deferred capacity costs may exceed the amount we will collect under the RSR.  In January 2013, the PUCO issued an order on rehearing for the 2012 ESP which generally upheld its prior order.  Intervenors are challenging various parts of these orders at the PUCO and with the Supreme Court of Ohio.  In parallel proceedings, the PUCO addressed certain issues around the energy auctions while other issues were deferred to a separate docket.  The PUCO has agreed to issue a request for an independent auditor in the fuel adjustment clause proceeding to separately examine the recovery of the fixed fuel costs.  If all or part of 2012 ESP is overturned by the PUCO or the Supreme Court of Ohio, or if deferred capacity and other costs are not recoverable, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.


Our request for an ESP from June 2015 through May 2018 may not be approved in its entirety. – Affecting AEP and OPCo




In December 2013, OPCo filed an application with the PUCO to approve an ESP that includes proposed rate adjustments and the continuation and modification of certain existing riders, effective June 2015 through May 2018.  The proposal includes a return on common equity of 10.65% for certain riders.  Additionally, the application identifies OPCo’s intention to submit a separate application to continue the RSR in which the unrecovered portion of the deferred capacity costs will continue to be collected until the balance of the capacity deferrals has been collected.  If the PUCO denies all or part of the requested ESP, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.




Ohio may require us to refund revenue that we have collected. – Affecting AEP and OPCo




Ohio law requires that the PUCO determine on an annual basis if rate adjustments included in prior orders resulted in significantly excessive earnings.  If the PUCO determines there were significantly excessive earnings, the excess amount could be returned to customers.  In November 2013, OPCo filed its 2011 and 2012 significantly excessive earnings filings with the PUCO.  If the PUCO determines that OPCo’s earnings were significantly excessive, and requires OPCo to return a portion of its revenues to customers, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.




We may not recover deferred fuel costs. – Affecting AEP and OPCo




In August 2012, the PUCO ordered recovery of deferred fuel costs beginning September 2012 through the Phase-In Recovery Rider.  The August 2012 order was upheld by the PUCO in October 2012.  OPCo and intervenors have filed appeals at the Supreme Court of Ohio.  If the Supreme Court of Ohio does not permit full recovery of OPCo’s deferred fuel costs, it would reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.






  



32







  



Ohio may require us to refund additional fuel costs. – Affecting AEP and OPCo




In January 2012, the PUCO ordered that proceeds from a 2008 coal contract settlement agreement be applied against OPCo’s under-recovered fuel balance and that an outside consultant be hired to review our fuel procurement through 2011.  The audit by the outside consultant included recommendations that would limit some of our fuel recovery or require us to refund certain fuel costs already incurred.  In addition, an intervenor filed an appeal with the Supreme Court of Ohio challenging the recovery of certain fuel costs.  Any reduction to our fuel recovery by the PUCO and/or the Supreme Court of Ohio could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.




We may not fully recover all of the investment in and expenses related to the Turk Plant – Affecting AEP and SWEPCo




In December 2012, SWEPCo placed the Turk Plant in Arkansas into commercial operation.  SWEPCo holds a 73% ownership interest in the 600 MW coal-fired generating facility.  SWEPCo had originally intended that the Arkansas jurisdictional share of the Turk Plant (approximately 20%) would become part of the rate base for its retail customers in Arkansas.  Following a proceeding at the Arkansas Supreme Court, the APSC issued an order which reversed and set aside a previously granted Certificate of Environmental Compatibility and Public Need.  The Arkansas portion of the Turk Plant output is currently not subject to cost-based rate recovery and is being sold into the wholesale market.  In addition, in February 2013, the LPSC granted recovery for the Louisiana portion of the Turk Plant costs in a formula rate filing, subject to refund based on the staff review of the cost of service and prudence review of the Turk Plant.  If SWEPCo cannot recover all of its investment and expenses related to the Turk Plant either through retail rates or sales into the wholesale market, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.


Request for rate recovery in Indiana may be overturned on appeal. – Affecting AEP and I&M




In February 2013, the IURC issued an order granting an annual increase in base rates.  In March 2013, the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor (OUCC) filed an appeal of the order with the Indiana Court of Appeals.  In September 2013, the OUCC filed a brief on appeal that included objections to certain aspects of the rate case.  If any part of the order is overturned by the Indiana Court of Appeals, it could reduce future net income and cash flows.




Approved recovery related to enabling the useful life of the Cook Plant may be overturned on appeal or further consideration. – Affecting AEP and I&M




In April and May 2012, I&M filed petitions with the IURC and the MPSC, respectively, for approval of the Cook Plant Life Cycle Management Project (LCM Project), which consists of a group of capital projects for Cook Plant, Units 1 and 2 intended to ensure the safe and reliable operation of the plant through its extended licensed life (2034 for Unit 1 and 2037 for Unit 2).  The estimated cost of the LCM Project is $1.2 billion to be incurred through 2018, excluding AFUDC.  In January 2013, the MPSC approved a Certificate of Need (CON) for the LCM Project.  In February 2013, intervenors filed appeals with the Michigan Court of Appeals objecting to the issuance of the CON as well as the amount of the CON related to the LCM Project.  In July 2013, the IURC approved I&M’s proposed project apart from a minor exception which the IURC stated I&M could seek recovery in a base rate case.  I&M was granted recovery through an LCM Project Rider to be determined in a series of proceedings beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 and then semi-annually thereafter.  If I&M is not ultimately permitted to recover its LCM Project costs, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.


Request for rate recovery in Texas may not be approved in its entirety and could be overturned. – Affecting AEP and SWEPCo




In July 2012, SWEPCo filed a request with the PUCT for an increase in Texas base rates.  In October 2013, the PUCT issued an order that granted part of the requested rate recovery.  Additionally, the PUCT determined that it would defer consideration of the requested increase in depreciation expense related to the change in the 2016 retirement date of the Welsh Plant, Unit 2.  If SWEPCo cannot ultimately recover its Texas jurisdictional share of the investment and expenses related to the Turk Plant transmission lines or Welsh Plant, Unit 2, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.






  



33







  



Request for rate recovery in Oklahoma may not be approved in its entirety. – Affecting AEP and PSO




In January 2014, PSO filed a request with the OCC to increase annual base rates by $38 million, based upon a 10.5% return on common equity.  If PSO cannot ultimately recover its costs that are the subject of this request, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.




Our transmission investment strategy and execution bears certain risks associated with these activities. – Affecting AEP




We expect that a growing portion of our earnings in the future will derive from the transmission investments and activities of AEPTCo and our transmission joint ventures.  FERC policy currently favors the expansion and updating of the transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction.  If FERC were to adopt a different policy or if transmission needs do not continue or develop as projected, our strategy of investing in transmission could be curtailed.  We believe our experience with transmission facilities construction and operation gives us an advantage over other competitors in securing authorization to install, construct and operate new transmission lines and facilities.  However, there can be no assurance that PJM, SPP or other RTOs will authorize any new transmission projects or will award any such projects to us.  If the FERC were to lower the rate of return it has authorized for our transmission investments and facilities, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.


We may not recover costs incurred to begin construction on projects that are canceled. – Affecting each Registrant




Our business plan for the construction of new projects involves a number of risks, including construction delays, nonperformance by equipment and other third party suppliers, and increases in equipment and labor costs.  To limit the risks of these construction projects, we enter into equipment purchase orders and construction contracts and incur engineering and design service costs in advance of receiving necessary regulatory approvals and/or siting or environmental permits.  If any of these projects is canceled for any reason, including our failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals and/or siting or environmental permits, we could incur significant cancellation penalties under the equipment purchase orders and construction contracts.  In addition, if we have recorded any construction work or investments as an asset, we may need to impair that asset in the event the project is canceled.


Rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of capital improvements, additions, storm damage operations and maintenance expense repairs and other costs. – Affecting each Registrant




Our public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions.  These rates are generally regulated based on an analysis of the applicable utility’s expenses incurred in a test year.  Thus, commission-approved rates may or may not match a utility’s expenses at any given time.  There may also be a delay between the timing of when these costs are incurred and when these costs are recovered.  We often finance the operations and maintenance expense to repair facilities damaged by storms or other severe weather events until the operations and maintenance storm costs, including any deferred regulatory assets, are recovered in rates.  We have also traditionally financed capital investments and improvements until the new asset was placed in service.  Provided the asset was found to be a prudent investment, the asset was then added to rate base and entitled to a return through rate recovery.  Similarly, long lead times in construction and scheduled repairs, the high costs of plant and equipment and volatile capital markets have heightened the risks involved in our capital investments, repairs and improvements.  While we are actively pursuing strategies to accelerate rate recognition of investments and cash flow, including pre-approvals, a return on construction work in progress, rider/trackers, formula rates and the inclusion of future test-year projections into rates, there can be no assurance that these will be adopted, that the applicable regulatory commission will judge all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will be done in a timely manner.


  



34







  







Certain of our revenues and results of operations are subject to risks that are beyond our control. – Affecting each Registrant




Our operations are structured to comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations and we take measures to minimize the risk of significant disruptions. Material disruptions at one or more of our operational facilities, however, could negatively impact our revenues, operating and capital expenditures and results of operations.  Such events may also create additional risks related to the supply and/or cost of equipment and materials.  We could experience unexpected but significant interruption due to several events, including, but not limited to:








·  


Major facility or equipment failure.








·  


An environmental event such as a serious spill or release.








·  


Fires, floods, droughts, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados or other natural disasters.








·  


Wars, terrorist acts (including cyber-terrorism) or threats and other catastrophic events.








·  


Significant health impairments or disease events.








·  


Other serious operational problems.







We are exposed to nuclear generation risk. – Affecting AEP and I&M




Through I&M, we own the Cook Plant.  It consists of two nuclear generating units for a rated capacity of 2,191 MW, or about 6% of the generating capacity in the AEP System.  We are, therefore, subject to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the following:








·  


The potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials such as spent nuclear fuel.








·  


Limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations.








·  


Uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessment amounts triggered by a loss event (federal law requires owners of nuclear units to purchase the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance and potentially contribute to the losses of others).








·  


Uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives.







There can be no assurance that I&M’s preparations or risk mitigation measures will be adequate if and when these risks are triggered.




The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities.  In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants such as ours.  In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our plants, if an incident did occur, it could harm our results of operations or financial condition.  A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit.  Moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the U.S. could require us to make material contributory payments.


Costs associated with the operation (including fuel), maintenance and retirement of nuclear plants continue to be more significant and less predictable than costs associated with other sources of generation, in large part due to changing regulatory requirements and safety standards, availability of nuclear waste disposal facilities and experience gained in the operation of nuclear facilities.  Costs also may include replacement power, any unamortized investment at the end of the useful life of the Cook Plant (whether scheduled or premature), the carrying costs of that investment and retirement costs.  Our ability to obtain adequate and timely recovery of costs associated with the Cook Plant is not assured.




  



35







  







The different regional power markets in which we compete or will compete in the future have changing market and transmission structures, which could affect our performance in these regions. – Affecting each Registrant




Our results are likely to be affected by differences in the market and transmission structures in various regional power markets.  The rules governing the various regional power markets, including SPP and PJM, may also change from time to time which could affect our costs or revenues.  Because the manner in which RTOs will evolve remains unclear, we are unable to assess fully the impact that changes in these power markets may have on our business.




We could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. – Affecting each Registrant




As a result of EPACT, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC.  The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles.  Compliance with new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures.  While we expect to recover costs and expenditures from customers through regulated rates, there can be no assurance that the applicable commissions will approve full recovery in a timely manner.  If we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, which likely would not be recoverable from customers through regulated rates.


RISKS RELATED TO MARKET, ECONOMIC OR FINANCIAL VOLATILITY AND OTHER RISKS




Our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities or perform certain corporate functions. – Affecting each Registrant




Our performance is highly dependent on the successful operation of our generation, transmission and distribution facilities.  Operating these facilities involves many risks, including:








·  


Operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes.








·  


Operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements.








·  


Labor disputes.








·  


Compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards.








·  


Information technology failure that impairs our information technology infrastructure or disrupts normal business operations.








·  


Information technology failure that affects our ability to access customer information or causes us to lose confidential or proprietary data that materially and adversely affects our reputation or exposes us to legal claims.








·  


Fuel or water supply interruptions caused by transportation constraints, adverse weather such as drought, non-performance by our suppliers and other factors.








·  


Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, hurricanes, tornados, ice storms, terrorism (including cyber-terrorism), floods or other similar occurrences.







Hostile cyber intrusions could severely impair our operations, lead to the disclosure of confidential information and damage our reputation. – Affecting each Registrant




We own assets deemed as critical infrastructure, the operation of which is dependent on information technology systems. Further, the computer systems that run our facilities are not completely isolated from external networks. Parties that wish to disrupt the U.S. bulk power system or our operations could view our computer systems, software or networks as targets for cyber attack.  In addition, our business requires that we collect and maintain sensitive customer data, as well as confidential employee and shareholder information, which is subject to electronic theft or loss.




  



36







  







A successful cyber attack on the systems that control our generation, transmission, distribution or other assets could severely disrupt business operations, preventing us from serving customers or collecting revenues. The breach of certain business systems could affect our ability to correctly record, process and report financial information. A major cyber incident could result in significant expenses to investigate and repair security breaches or system damage and could lead to litigation, fines, other remedial action, heightened regulatory scrutiny and damage to our reputation. In addition, the misappropriation, corruption or loss of personally identifiable information and other confidential data could lead to significant breach notification expenses and mitigation expenses such as credit monitoring. We maintain property and casualty insurance that may cover certain physical damage or third-party injuries caused by potential cyber security incidents.  However, other damage and claims arising from such incidents may not be covered or may exceed the amount of any insurance available. For these reasons, a significant cyber incident could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.


In an effort to reduce the likelihood and severity of cyber intrusions, we have a comprehensive cyber security program designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data and systems. In addition, we are subject to mandatory cyber security regulatory requirements. However, cyber threats continue to evolve and adapt, and, as a result, there is a risk that we could experience a successful cyber attack despite our current security posture and regulatory compliance efforts.




If we are unable to access capital markets on reasonable terms, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition. – Affecting each Registrant




We rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows.  Volatility and reduced liquidity in the financial markets could affect our ability to raise capital and fund our capital needs, including construction costs and refinancing maturing indebtedness.  In addition, if capital is available only on less than reasonable terms or to borrowers whose creditworthiness is better than ours, capital costs could increase materially.  Restricted access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.




Downgrades in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and/or to operate our power trading businesses. – Affecting each Registrant




The credit ratings agencies periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings.  Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to us and could limit our access to funding for our operations.  Our business is capital intensive, and we are dependent upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive.  In periods of market turmoil, access to capital is difficult for all borrowers.  If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.




Our power trading business relies on the investment grade ratings of our individual public utility subsidiaries’ senior unsecured long-term debt or on the investment grade ratings of AEP.  Most of our counterparties require the creditworthiness of an investment grade entity to stand behind transactions.  If those ratings were to decline below investment grade, our ability to operate our power trading business profitably would be diminished because we would likely have to deposit cash or cash-related instruments which would reduce our profits.




AEP has no income or cash flow apart from dividends paid or other obligations due it from its subsidiaries. – Affecting AEP




AEP is a holding company and has no operations of its own.  Its ability to meet its financial obligations associated with its indebtedness and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries, primarily its regulated utilities, and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to, or repay loans from, AEP.  Its subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that have no obligation (apart from loans from AEP) to provide AEP with funds for its payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions or other payments.  Payments to AEP by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon their earnings and business considerations.  AEP indebtedness and common stock dividends are structurally subordinated to all subsidiary indebtedness.


  



37







  



 

Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal or quarterly basis and with general economic and weather conditions. – Affecting each Registrant




Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business.  In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the terms of power sale contracts that we enter into.  In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder.  Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition.  Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase AEP’s results of operations in a manner that would not likely be sustainable.


Further, deteriorating economic conditions generally result in reduced consumption by our customers, particularly industrial customers who may curtail operations or cease production entirely, while an expanding economic environment generally results in increased revenues.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate on the basis of prevailing economic conditions.




Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm our results of operations. – Affecting each Registrant




Certain events, such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skillset or complement to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges and increased costs.  The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development.  In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise.  Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate our business.  If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be negatively affected.


Parties we have engaged to provide construction materials or services may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. – Affecting each Registrant




Our business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades, construction of additional generation units and transmission facilities as well as other initiatives.  We are exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of materials used in construction.  We have engaged numerous contractors and entered into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction related services.  As a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us.  Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and almost certainly cause delays in that and related projects.  Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions.  This would cause our financial results to be diminished, and we might incur losses or delays in completing construction.


Changes in commodity prices and the costs of transport may increase our cost of producing power or decrease the amount we receive from selling power, harming our financial performance. – Affecting each Registrant




We are exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal and the price and availability to transport coal.  We have existing contracts of varying durations for the supply of coal, but as these contracts end or otherwise are not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts.  Similarly, we are exposed to changes in the price and availability of emission allowances.  We use emission allowances based on the amount of coal we use as fuel and the reductions achieved through emission controls and other measures.  As long as current environmental programs remain in effect, we have sufficient emission allowances to cover the majority of our projected needs for the next two years and beyond.  If the Federal EPA is able to create a replacement rule to reduce interstate transport, and it is acceptable by the courts, additional costs may be incurred either to acquire additional allowances or to achieve further reductions in emissions.  If we need to obtain allowances under a  



  



38







  



replacement rule, those purchases may not be on as favorable terms as those under the current environmental programs.  Our risks relative to the price and availability to transport coal include the volatility of the price of diesel which is the primary fuel used in transporting coal by barge.




We also own natural gas-fired facilities which exposes us to market prices of natural gas.  Historically, natural gas prices have tended to be more volatile than prices for other fuel sources. Recently however, the availability of natural gas from shale production has lessened price volatility. Our ability to make off-system sales at a profit is highly dependent on the price of natural gas.  As the price of natural gas falls, other market participants that utilize natural gas-fired generation will be able to offer electricity at increasingly competitive prices relative to our off-system sales prices, so the margins we realize from sales will be lower and, on occasion, we may need to curtail operation of marginal plants.  We expect the availability of shale natural gas and issues related to its accessibility will have a long-term material effect on the price and volatility of natural gas.


Prices for coal, natural gas and emission allowances have shown material upward and downward swings in the past.  Changes in the cost of coal, emission allowances or natural gas and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of power will affect our financial results.




In addition, actual power prices and fuel costs will differ from those assumed in financial projections used to value our trading and marketing transactions, and those differences may be material.  As a result, our financial results may be diminished in the future as those transactions are marked to market.




Our AEP River Operations business segment is subject to risks that are beyond our control. – Affecting AEP




Our AEP River Operations business segment transports liquid, coal and dry bulk commodities primarily on the Ohio, Illinois and lower Mississippi rivers.  These activities can be hazardous and depend on natural conditions and forces.  Our river transport operations could result in an environmental event such as a serious spill or release.  In addition, if drought conditions or other factors cause the water levels of one or more of these rivers to drop below the amount necessary to permit commercial barging traffic, it would prevent our AEP River Operations from transporting cargo on the affected river.  Conversely, if unusually high amounts of precipitation or other factors cause the water levels of one or more of these rivers to be too high to permit commercial barging traffic, it would prevent our AEP River Operations from transporting cargo on the affected river.  Extreme water levels that do not close river basin commercial traffic can still harm our business if the levels curtail the total volume permitted to move on the affected river. The levels on portions of the Mississippi River in 2013 have been reported as remaining at or approaching the lowest since the levels caused by severe drought in 1988.  Any reduction in the commercial activities of our AEP River Operations due to low water levels could reduce future net income and cash flows.


We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. – Affecting each Registrant




There is a growing consensus on the evidence of global climate change.  Climate change creates physical and financial risk.  Physical risks from climate change include an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as changes in precipitation and extreme weather events.  Our customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity.  For residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use.  To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes.

 

Increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in additional generating assets, transmission and other infrastructure to serve increased load.  Decreased energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition, through decreased revenues.  Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stress, including service interruptions.  Weather conditions outside of our service territory could also have an impact on our revenues.  We buy and sell electricity depending upon system needs and market opportunities.  Extreme weather conditions creating high energy demand on our own and/or other systems may raise electricity prices as we buy short-term energy to serve our own system, which would increase the cost of energy we provide to our customers.


  



39







  






Severe weather impacts our service territories, primarily when thunderstorms, tornadoes, hurricanes and snow or ice storms occur.  To the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service.  Changes in precipitation resulting in droughts or water shortages could adversely affect our operations, principally our fossil generating units.  A negative impact to water supplies due to long-term drought conditions could adversely impact our ability to provide electricity to customers, as well as increase the price they pay for energy.  We may not recover all costs related to mitigating these physical and financial risks.




To the extent climate change impacts a region’s economic health, it may also impact our revenues.  Our financial performance is tied to the health of the regional economies we serve.  The price of energy, as a factor in a region’s cost of living as well as an important input into the cost of goods and services, has an impact on the economic health of our communities.




We cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings relating to our business activities. – Affecting each Registrant




We are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising out of our business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 6 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements entitled Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies.  Adverse outcomes in these proceedings could require significant expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.




RISKS RELATING TO STATE RESTRUCTURING




Customers are choosing alternative electric generation service providers, as allowed by Ohio law and regulation. – Affecting AEP




Under current Ohio law, electric generation is sold in a competitive market in Ohio and native load customers in Ohio have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service.  CRES providers are targeting retail customers by offering alternative generation service.  Through a short term agreement, AGR provides capacity and a decreasing portion of power to the Ohio customers that have not switched.  As customer switching in Ohio continues, it could reduce AGR’s future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.




Collection of our revenues in Texas is concentrated in a limited number of REPs. – Affecting AEP




Our revenues from the distribution of electricity in the ERCOT area of Texas are collected from REPs that supply the electricity we distribute to their customers.  Currently, we do business with approximately one hundred REPs.  In 2013, TCC’s largest REP accounted for 29% of its operating revenue and its second largest REP accounted for 16% of its operating revenue; TNC’s largest REP accounted for 12% of its operating revenues and its second largest REP accounted for 7% of its operating revenues.  Adverse economic conditions, structural problems in the Texas market or financial difficulties of one or more REPs could impair the ability of these REPs to pay for our services or could cause them to delay such payments.  We depend on these REPs for timely remittance of payments.  Any delay or default in payment could reduce future cash flows and impact financial condition.





  



40







  







RISKS RELATED TO OWNING AND OPERATING GENERATION ASSETS AND SELLING POWER




Our costs of compliance with existing environmental laws are significant. – Affecting each Registrant




Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and health and safety.  Approximately 90% of the electricity generated by the AEP System is produced by the combustion of fossil fuels.  Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury and particulates from fossil fueled generation plants are subject to increased regulations, controls and mitigation expenses.  Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees and permits at all of our facilities and could cause us to retire generating capacity prior to the end of its estimated useful life.  These expenditures have been significant in the past and we expect that they will continue to be significant in order to comply with the current and proposed regulations.  Costs of compliance with environmental regulations could reduce future net income and impact financial condition, especially if emission and/or discharge limits are tightened, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed and additional substances become regulated.  If we retire generation plants prior to the end of their estimated useful life, there can be no assurance that we will recover the remaining costs associated with such plants.  We typically recover our expenditures for pollution control technologies, replacement generation and associated operating costs from customers through regulated rates in regulated jurisdictions.  Failure to recover these costs could reduce our future net income and cash flows and possibly harm our financial condition.   For our sales of energy from our competitive units, there is no such cost-recovery mechanism.   As a result, we may not recover our costs through the market and we may be forced to shut competitive units down.  The costs of compliance for our competitive units could reduce our future net income and cash flows and possibly harm our financial condition. 


Regulation of CO2 emissions, either through legislation or by the Federal EPA, could materially increase costs to us and our customers or cause some of our electric generating units to be uneconomical to operate or maintain. – Affecting each Registrant




The U.S. Congress has not taken any significant steps toward enacting legislation to control CO2emissions since 2009.  In December 2009, the Federal EPA issued a final endangerment finding under the CAA regarding emissions from motor vehicles.  The Federal EPA also finalized CO2 emission standards for new motor vehicles, and issued a rule that implements a permitting program for new and modified stationary sources of CO2 emissions in a phased manner.  Several groups have filed challenges to the endangerment finding and the Federal EPA’s subsequent rulemakings.  The Supreme Court has agreed to review whether EPA reasonably determined that establishing standards for new motor vehicles automatically triggered regulation of stationary sources through the prevention of significant deterioration and Title V permitting programs.


In 2012, the Federal EPA issued a proposed CO2 emissions standard for new power generation sources with a CO2 limit equivalent to a natural gas unit.  In response to the comments submitted on this proposed rule, and in accordance with a directive from the President, EPA withdrew the April 2012 proposed rule and has issued a new proposal.  This proposed rule includes separate, but equivalent, standards for natural gas and coal-fired units, based on the use of partial carbon capture and storage at coal units.  We do not believe that carbon capture and storage has been adequately demonstrated, and intend to submit comments on the proposed rule.  The President has also directed Federal EPA to issue standards for modified and reconstructed units, and a guideline for the development of state implementation plans that would reduce carbon emissions from existing utility units by June 2014, to finalize those standards by June 2015, and to require states to submit implementation plans no later than June 2016.  Management believes some policy approaches being discussed would have significant and widespread negative consequences for the national economy and major U.S. industrial enterprises, including AEP and our customers.


If CO2 and other emission standards are imposed, the standards could require significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs which would impact the ultimate retirement of older, less-efficient, coal-fired units.  We typically recover costs of complying with new requirements such as the potential CO2 and other greenhouse gases emission standards from customers through regulated rates in regulated jurisdictions.  For our sales of energy based on market rate authority, however, there is no such recovery mechanism.  Failure to recover these costs, should they arise, could reduce our future net income and cash flows and possibly harm our financial condition.





  



41







  






Amounts we receive from the results of PJM capacity auctions associated with our nonregulated generation assets could fail to adequately compensate us. – Affecting AEP




At the end of last year, AGR acquired most of the generation formerly owned by OPCo.  Recovery of AGR’s generation capacity is subject to the results of annual PJM capacity auctions.  Recent auction results indicate a great deal of volatility and the possibility of clearing prices substantially lower than the cost of such capacity.  We formed a coalition with other utility companies to address mutual concerns related to the auction process and PJM has made filings with the FERC seeking modification of that process.  Additional filings are expected.  We can give no assurance that the FERC will approve any modifications to the annual PJM capacity auctions.  If the annual PJM capacity auctions continue to result in clearing prices lower than the cost of our capacity, it could reduce our future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.


Courts adjudicating nuisance and other similar claims against us may order us to pay damages or to limit or reduce our CO2 emissions. – Affecting each Registrant




In the past, there have been several cases seeking damages based on allegations of federal and state common law nuisance in which we, among others, were defendants.  In general, the actions allege that CO2 emissions from the defendants’ power plants constitute a public nuisance due to impacts of global warming and climate change.  The plaintiffs in these actions generally seek recovery of damages and other relief.  If the pending or other future actions are resolved against us, substantial modifications of our existing coal-fired power plants could be required and we might be required to limit or reduce CO2 emissions.  Such remedies could require us to purchase power from third parties to fulfill our commitments to supply power to our customers.  This could have a material impact on our costs.  In addition, we could be required to invest significantly in additional emission control equipment, accelerate the timing of capital expenditures, pay damages or penalties and/or halt operations.  While management believes such costs should be recoverable from customers as costs of doing business in our jurisdictions where generation rates are set on a cost of service basis, without such recovery those costs could reduce our future net income and cash flows and harm our financial condition.  Moreover, our results of operations and financial position could be reduced due to the timing of recovery of these investments and the expense of ongoing litigation.


Changes in technology and regulatory policies may cause our generating facilities to be less competitive.  – Affecting each Registrant




We primarily generate electricity at large central facilities. This method results in economies of scale and lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. It is possible that advances in technologies or changes in regulatory policies will reduce costs of new technology to levels that are equal to or below that of most central station electricity production, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.




Our profitability is impacted by our continued authorization to sell power at market-based rates.  – Affecting each Registrant




FERC has granted AEGCo, AGR, APCo, I&M, KPCo, OPCo, PSO, and SWEPCo authority to sell electricity at market-based rates (except in our balancing authority area of the SPP where our wholesale power transactions are cost-capped by FERC). FERC reserves the right to revoke or revise this market-based rate authority if it subsequently determines that one or more of these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry or engage in abusive affiliate transactions.  Each company that has obtained market-based rate authority from FERC must file a market power update every three years to show that they continue to meet FERC’s standards with respect to generation market power and other criteria used to evaluate whether entities qualify for market-based rates.  The loss of market-based rate authority by any of these entities, especially by AGR, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.


Our revenues and results of operations from selling power are subject to market risks that are beyond our control. – Affecting each Registrant




We sell power from our generation facilities into the spot market and other competitive power markets on a contractual basis.  We also enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, emission allowances and coal as part of our power marketing and energy trading operations.  With respect to such transactions, the rate of 

 



  



42







  



return on our capital investments is not determined through mandated rates, and our revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power in our regional markets and other competitive markets.  These market prices can fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time.  Trading margins may erode as markets mature and there may be diminished opportunities for gain should volatility decline.  In addition, the FERC, which has jurisdiction over wholesale power rates, as well as RTOs that oversee some of these markets, may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in these markets.  Power supply and other similar agreements entered into during extreme market conditions may subsequently be held to be unenforceable by a reviewing court or the FERC.  Fuel and emissions prices may also be volatile, and the price we can obtain for power sales may not change at the same rate as changes in fuel and/or emissions costs.  These factors could reduce our margins and therefore diminish our revenues and results of operations.  Volatility in market prices for fuel and power may result from:






·  


Weather conditions, including storms.








·  


Economic conditions.








·  


Outages of major generation or transmission facilities.








·  


Seasonality.








·  


Power usage.








·  


Illiquid markets.








·  


Transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies.








·  


Availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources.








·  


Demand for energy commodities.








·  


Natural gas, crude oil and refined products and coal production levels.








·  


Natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events.








·  


Federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation and/or incentives.







Commodity trading and marketing activities are subject to inherent risks which can be reduced and controlled but not eliminated. – Affecting each Registrant




We attempt to manage the exposure of or power trading activities by establishing and enforcing risk limits and risk management procedures.  These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with these activities.  As a result, we cannot predict the impact that our energy trading and risk management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position.




We routinely have open trading positions in the market, within guidelines we set, resulting from the management of our trading portfolio.  To the extent open trading positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve or diminish our financial results and financial position.




Our power trading risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as the future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities.  These factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made.  Even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate.




We may not successfully manage the uncertainty involved with our power trading (including coal, natural gas and emission allowances trading and power marketing). – Affecting each Registrant




Our power trading activities also expose us to risks of commodity price movements.  To the extent that our power trading does not hedge the price risk associated with the generation it owns, or controls, through long-term power purchase agreements, we would be exposed to the risk of rising and falling spot market prices.




For example, the use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits has increased natural gas supply and reserves, placing further downward pressure on natural gas prices and has reduced the need for our coal-fired generation. Further, in the event that alternative generation resources, such as wind and solar, are mandated or otherwise subsidized or encouraged through climate legislation or regulation and added to the available generation supply, such resources could displace a higher marginal cost fossil plant, which could reduce the price at which 

 



  



43







  



market participants sell their electricity. This occurrence could then reduce the market price at which all generators in that region would be able to sell their output. These events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could also result in an impairment of certain long-lived assets.




In connection with these trading activities, we routinely enter into financial contracts, including futures and options, over-the counter options, financially-settled swaps and other derivative contracts.  These activities expose us to risks from price movements.  If the values of the financial contracts change in a manner we do not anticipate, it could harm our financial position or reduce the financial contribution of our trading operations.




Parties with whom we have contracts may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results of operations. – Affecting each Registrant




We are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money or power could breach their obligations.  Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses.  Although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by a counterparty may be greater than the estimates predict.




We rely on electric transmission facilities that we do not own or control.  If these facilities do not provide us with adequate transmission capacity, we may not be able to deliver our wholesale electric power to the purchasers of our power. – Affecting each Registrant




We depend on transmission facilities owned and operated by other nonaffiliated power companies to deliver the power we sell at wholesale.  This dependence exposes us to a variety of risks.  If transmission is disrupted, or transmission capacity is inadequate, we may not be able to sell and deliver our wholesale power.  If a region’s power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, our recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited.  If restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure.




The FERC has issued electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales.  Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions, access to transmission systems may in fact not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable.  We also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets.




Financial derivatives reforms could increase the liquidity needs and costs of our commercial trading operations. – Affecting each Registrant




In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law (Dodd-Frank Act).  The federal legislation was enacted to reform financial markets and significantly alter how over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives are regulated.  The law increased regulatory oversight of OTC energy derivatives, including: (a) imposing pervasive regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) on dealers and traders who hold significant positions in swaps, (b) requiring certain standardized OTC derivatives to be traded on registered exchanges as directed by CFTC, (c) imposing new and potentially higher capital and margin requirements on swap dealers and traders who hold significant positions in swaps and (d) increasing the monitoring and compliance obligations of parties who engage in swaps, including new recordkeeping and reporting requirements with governmental entities.  The CFTC has issued regulations exempting certain end users of energy commodities from being required to clear OTC derivatives, provided that they (a) are using the swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk and (b) satisfy certain other requirements.  To the extent we meet such requirements, the end user exemption could reduce the effect of the law's clearing requirements on our hedging activity.  Pursuant to authority granted under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has also issued rules that, among other things, further define the OTC derivative products and entities subject to additional regulatory oversight, which recently became effective.  These requirements could subject us to additional regulatory oversight related to our OTC derivative transactions, cause our OTC derivative transactions to be more costly and have an impact on financial condition due to additional capital requirements.  In addition, as these reforms aim to standardize OTC products it could limit the effectiveness of our hedging programs because we would have less ability to tailor OTC derivatives to match the precise risk we are seeking to manage.


  



44







  






ITEM 1B