ITEM 1A.         RISK
FACTORS

Investing in our company involves a high
degree risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before
deciding to invest in our Company.

The Company’s disclosure controls and
procedures and internal control over financial reporting were determined not to
be effective as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, due to the material
weaknesses that existed in our internal control over financial reporting. Our
disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial
reporting may not be effective in future periods, as a result of existing or
newly identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial
reporting.

As required by the federal securities laws, our management periodically
performs an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures and conducts
an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. “Disclosure
controls and procedures” are controls and procedures that are designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports
that it files with the SEC under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported, within the time periods specified by the SEC’s rules
and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the
chief executive officer and chief financial officer to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosures. “Internal control over financial reporting” is
the process designed by a company’s senior management to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.

In performing the assessment at the end of 2005 and 2004, our management
identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial
reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of
deficiencies, that adversely affects a company's ability to initiate,
authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a
more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or
interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. For a
discussion of the material weaknesses identified by our management, see Item 9A
of this 2005 annual report on Form 10-K.

Due to these material weaknesses, our management concluded that as of
December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, our Company did not maintain effective
control over financial reporting and concluded that our disclosure controls and
procedures were ineffective. During our remediation efforts to correct the
material weakness that was identified at the end of 2004, errors were
discovered in our financial statements which resulted from such material
weakness, as well as newly identified material weaknesses. These errors
required us to restate our financial statements that were previously filed in
our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and our
quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. To address
the material weaknesses, we performed additional analysis and other
post-closing procedures in order to prepare our consolidated financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These
additional procedures were costly, time consuming and required us to dedicate a
significant amount of our resources, including the time and attention of our
senior management, toward the correction of these problems. Performing these
additional procedures and the need to restate our financial statements also
caused us to delay the filing of our quarterly reports for the second and third
quarters of 2005 until January 2006, which was well beyond the deadline
prescribed by the SEC’s rules to file such reports. In addition, during the
2005 year-end closing process, additional errors were identified that required
us to restate our 2004 and 2003 financial results. These corrections are
included in the 2005 annual report on Form 10-K. The delays in filing our 2004
Form 10-K/A, and restated quarterly reports, as well as the additional errors
identified during the year-end closing process caused the 2005 annual report on
Form 10-K to be filed after the SEC deadline for the 2005 annual report on Form 10-K,
as well.

As a result of not timely filing the
quarterly and annual reports with the SEC, we lost our eligibility to offer and
sell our securities pursuant to our shelf registration statement on Form S-3
which could impair 


 41 





our ability to
access the capital markets in a timely manner. In addition, the restatements and
the delay in the filing of our quarterly and annual reports could have other
adverse effects on our business, including, but not limited to:

·       civil
litigation or an investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities,
which could require us to incur significant legal expenses and other costs or
to pay damages, fines or other penalties,

·       covenant
defaults, and potentially events of default, under our senior secured credit
facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding debt securities, resulting
from our failure to timely file our financial statements,

·       negative
publicity, or

·       the loss or
impairment of investor confidence in our Company.

Because of our decentralized structure and the many disparate accounting
systems of varying quality and sophistication at our various businesses
throughout the world, there is still extensive work remaining to remedy the
material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. We have
developed a remediation plan and have begun implementing this plan, but we
expect that this work will extend throughout 2006 and possibly beyond. We
cannot assure you as to when the remediation plan will be fully implemented,
nor can we assure that additional material weaknesses will not be identified by
our management or the auditors in the future. Until our remediation efforts are
completed, we will continue to incur the expense and management burdens
associated with the additional procedures required to prepare our consolidated
financial statements. There will also continue to be an increased risk that we
will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC, that a
related default under our senior secured credit facilities and indentures could
occur and that our financial statements could contain errors that will be
undetected.

Management, including our
CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls will prevent or detect
all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and
operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control
system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the
benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Any evaluation
of the effectiveness of controls is subject to risks that those internal
controls may become inadequate in future periods because of changes in business
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
deteriorates. In addition, the effect of new, or changes in,
accounting policies and practices and the application of such policies and
practices could adversely affect our business.

Our high level of
indebtedness, and the security provided for this indebtedness, could adversely
affect our business and our ability to fulfill our obligations.

At December 31,
2005, we had approximately $17.7 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a
consolidated basis, of which approximately $4.9 billion was recourse debt of
The AES Corporation and approximately $12.8 billion was non-recourse debt. All outstanding borrowings under our Senior
Secured Credit Facility, our Second Priority Senior Secured Notes and certain
other indebtedness are secured by certain of our assets, including the pledge
of capital stock of many of our directly held subsidiaries. Most of the debt of
our subsidiaries is pledged by substantially all of the assets of those
subsidiaries. This level of indebtedness and related security could have
important consequences to us and our investors because it could:

·       make
it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt service and other obligations,

·       increase
our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions,


 42 





·       require
us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make
payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash
flow to fund other corporate purposes and grow our business,

·       limit
our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and
the industry,

·       place
us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that are not as highly
leveraged, and

·       limit,
along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our and our
subsidiaries’ indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional
funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.

The agreements governing
our indebtedness and the indebtedness of our subsidiaries limit but do not
prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness. To the extent we become more leveraged, the risks
described above would increase. Further, our actual cash requirements in the
future may be greater than expected. Accordingly, our cash flow from operations
may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the outstanding debt as it
becomes due and, in that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets
or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at all to refinance our debt as
it becomes due.

We have significant cash requirements and limited
sources of liquidity.

The AES
Corporation, which refers to the AES parent company, requires cash primarily to
fund:

·       principal
repayments of debt,

·       interest
and preferred dividends,

·       acquisitions,

·       construction
and other project commitments,

·       other
equity commitments,

·       taxes,
and

·       parent
company overhead and development costs.

The AES Corporation’s
principal sources of liquidity are:

·       dividends
and distributions from its subsidiaries,

·       proceeds
from debt and equity financings at the parent company level, and

·       proceeds
from asset sales.

For a more detailed discussion of our cash
requirements and sources of liquidity, please see “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital
Resources and Liquidity” in this 2005 annual report on Form 10-K.

While we believe that
these sources will be adequate to meet our obligations at the parent company
level for the foreseeable future, this belief is based on a number of material
assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about our ability to
access the capital or commercial lending markets, the operating and financial
performance of our subsidiaries, exchange rates and the ability of its
subsidiaries to pay dividends. Any number of assumptions could prove to be
incorrect and therefore we cannot assure you that these sources will be
available when needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater
than expected. In addition, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay at
maturity all of the principal outstanding under our senior secured credit
facilities and our debt securities and we may have to refinance such
obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining such
refinancings.


 43 





Existing and
potential future defaults by project subsidiaries could adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition.

We attempt to finance our domestic and foreign
projects primarily under loan agreements and related documents which, except as
noted below, require the loans to be repaid solely from the project’s revenues
and provide that the repayment of the loans (and interest thereon) is secured
solely by the capital stock, physical assets, contracts and cash flow of that
project subsidiary or affiliate. This type of financing is usually referred to
as non-recourse debt or “project financing.” In some project financings, The
AES Corporation has explicitly agreed to undertake certain limited obligations
and contingent liabilities, most of which by their terms will only be effective
or will be terminated upon the occurrence of future events. These obligations
and liabilities take the form of guarantees, indemnities, letter of credit
reimbursement agreements, and agreements to pay, in certain circumstances, the
project lenders or other parties. To the extent The AES Corporation becomes
liable under such guarantees and other arrangements, distributions received by
The AES Corporation from other projects are subject to the possibility of being
utilized by The AES Corporation to satisfy these obligations.

At December 31, 2005, we had approximately $4.9
billon of recourse debt and approximately $12.8 billion of non-recourse debt
outstanding. At December 31, 2005, The AES Corporation had provided
outstanding financial and performance related guarantees or other credit
support commitments to or for the benefit of its subsidiaries, which were
limited by the terms of the agreements, to an aggregate of approximately $507
million (excluding those collateralized by letter-of-credit obligations discussed
below). The AES Corporation also is obligated under other commitments, which
are limited to amounts, or percentages of amounts, received by The AES
Corporation as distributions from its project subsidiaries. In addition, The
AES Corporation has commitments to fund its equity in projects currently under
development or in construction. At December 31, 2005, The AES Corporation
also had $294 million in letters of credit outstanding and $1 million in surety
bonds outstanding, which operate to guarantee performance relating to certain
project development activities and subsidiary operations.

Some of our subsidiaries are currently in default with
respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total debt
classified as current in our consolidated balance sheets related to such
defaults was $138 million at December 31, 2005.

While the lenders
under our non-recourse project financings generally do not have direct
recourse to The AES Corporation (other than to the extent of any credit support
given by The AES Corporation), defaults thereunder can still have important
consequences for The AES Corporation’s results of operations and liquidity,
including, without limitation:

·       reducing
The AES Corporation’s cash flows since the project subsidiary will typically be
prohibited from distributing cash to The AES Corporation during the pendancy of
any default,

·       triggering
The AES Corporation’s obligation to make payments under any financial
guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support which The AES Corporation
has provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary,

·       causing
The AES Corporation to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the
assets, or

·       triggering
defaults in The AES Corporation’s outstanding debt and trust preferred instruments.
For example, The AES Corporation’s senior secured credit facilities and
outstanding senior notes and junior subordinated notes include events of
default for certain bankruptcy related events involving material subsidiaries. In
addition, The AES Corporation’s senior secured credit facilities include events
of default relating to accelerations of outstanding debt of material
subsidiaries.

None of the projects that
are currently in default are owned by subsidiaries that meet the applicable
definition of materiality in The AES Corporation’s senior secured credit
facilities in order for such defaults to trigger an event of default or permit
an acceleration under such indebtedness. However, as a result of 


 44 





future
write down of assets, dispositions and other matters that affect our financial
position and results of operations, it is possible that one or more of these
subsidiaries could fall within the definition of a “material subsidiary” and
thereby upon an acceleration of such subsidiary’s debt, trigger an event of
default and possible acceleration of the indebtedness under The AES Corporation’s
senior secured credit facilities.

Our competitive
supply and Latin American operations represent a substantial portion of our
assets and have caused and are expected to continue to cause significant
volatility in our results of operations and cash flows.

The competitive supply
segment of our business and our Latin American operations each experience
volatility in revenues and earnings and has had and is expected to continue to
cause significant volatility on our results of operations and cash flows. The
competitive supply segment’s volatility has resulted from volatile electricity
prices, which are influenced by peak demand requirements, weather conditions,
competition, market regulation, interest rate and foreign exchange rate
fluctuations, electricity transmission and environmental emission constraints,
the availability or prices of emission credits and fuel prices, as well as
plant availability and other relevant factors. Our Latin American operations
have experienced significant volatility because of regulatory and economic
difficulties, political instability and currency devaluations being experienced
in many of these countries.

We do a significant amount of our business outside the
United States which presents significant risks.

During 2005,
approximately 79% of our revenue was generated outside the United States and a
significant portion of our international operations is conducted in developing
countries. Part of our growth strategy is to expand our business in
developing countries because the growth rates and the opportunity to implement
operating improvements and achieve higher operating margins may be greater than
those typically achievable in more developed countries. International
operations, particularly the operation, financing and development of projects
in developing countries, entail significant risks and uncertainties, including,
without limitation:

·       economic,
social and political instability in any particular country or region,

·       adverse
changes in currency exchange rates,

·       government
restrictions on converting currencies or repatriating funds,

·       unexpected
changes in foreign laws and regulations or in trade, monetary or fiscal
policies,

·       high
inflation and monetary fluctuations,

·       restrictions
on imports of coal, oil, gas or other raw materials required by our generation
businesses to operate,

·       expropriation
of our assets by foreign governments,

·       difficulties
in hiring, training and retaining qualified personnel, particularly finance and
accounting personnel with U.S. GAAP expertise,

·       unwillingness
of governments, government agencies or similar organizations to honor their
contracts,

·       inability
to obtain access to fair and equitable political, regulatory, administrative
and legal systems,

·       difficulties
in enforcing our contractual rights or enforcing judgments or obtaining a just
result in local jurisdictions, and

·       potentially
adverse tax consequences of operating in multiple jurisdictions.


 45 





Any of these factors, by itself or in combination with
others, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

Furthermore, the ability
to obtain financing on a commercially acceptable non-recourse basis in developing
nations is difficult. Even when such non-recourse financing is available,
lenders may require us to make higher equity investments or provide greater
credit support than historically have been the case. In addition, financing in
countries with less than investment grade sovereign credit ratings may also
require substantial participation by multilateral financing agencies. There can
be no assurance that such financing can be obtained when needed.

Our financial
position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to
fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

We operate in many foreign
environments and such investment in foreign countries may be impacted by
significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposure to
currency exchange rate fluctuations results primarily from the translation
exposure associated with the preparation of our consolidated financial
statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with generating
revenues and incurring expenses in different currencies. While our consolidated
financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of
many of our subsidiaries outside the United States are prepared using the local
currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars by
applying an appropriate exchange rate. As a result, fluctuations in the
exchange rate of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies in which our
subsidiaries outside the United States report could cause significant
fluctuations in our results. In addition, while our expenses with respect to
foreign operations are generally denominated in the same currency as
corresponding sales, we have transaction exposure to the extent our receipts
and expenditures, including debt service expenditures, are not offsetting in
any currency. Moreover, the costs of doing business abroad may increase as a
result of adverse exchange rate fluctuations. Our financial position and
results of operations have been significantly affected by fluctuations in the
value of the Argentine peso, Brazilian real, the Dominican Republic peso, the
Pakistani rupee and the Venezuelan bolivar relative to the U.S. dollar. Depreciation
of the Argentine peso and Brazilian real has resulted in foreign currency
translation and transaction losses, while the appreciation of those currencies
has resulted in gains. Conversely, depreciation of the Venezuelan bolivar has
resulted in foreign currency gains and appreciation has resulted in losses.

Our business is subject to substantial development
uncertainties.

Certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates are in
various stages of developing and constructing greenfield power plants, some but
not all of which have signed long-term contracts or made similar arrangements
for the sale of electricity. Successful completion depends upon overcoming
substantial risks, including, but not limited to, risks relating to failures of
siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals or the
potential for termination of the power sales contract as a result of a failure
to meet certain milestones. We believe that capitalized costs for projects
under development are recoverable; however, we cannot assure you that any
individual project will be completed and reach commercial operation. If these
development efforts are not successful, we may abandon a project under
development. At the time of abandonment, we would expense all capitalized
development costs incurred in connection therewith and could incur additional
losses associated with any related contingent liabilities.

Our acquisitions may not perform as expected.

Historically, we
have achieved a majority of our growth through acquisitions. We plan to
continue to grow our business through acquisitions. Although acquired
businesses may have significant operating histories at the time we acquired
them, we will have a limited or no history of owning and operating many of
these businesses and possibly limited or no experience operating in the country
or region where these businesses are located. Some of these businesses may be
government owned and some may be operated as 


 46 





part
of a larger integrated utility prior to their acquisition. If we were to
acquire any of these types of businesses, we cannot assure you that:

·       we
will be successful in transitioning them to private ownership,

·       such
businesses will perform as expected,

·       we
will not incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities,

·       such
business will generate sufficient cash flow to support the indebtedness
incurred to acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to develop them, or

·       the
rate of return from such businesses will justify our decision to invest our
capital to acquire them.

Acquisitions have placed,
and in the future may place, a strain on our internal accounting and managerial
controls. In addition, our acquisitions outside the United States have
required, and will require, us to hire personnel with sufficient expertise in
U.S. GAAP to timely and accurately comply with our reporting obligations. An
inability to maintain adequate internal accounting and managerial controls and
hire and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse affect on our ability
to report our financial condition and results of operations.

Most of our
contract generation businesses are dependent to a large degree on one or a
limited number of customers and a limited number of fuel suppliers.

Most of
our contract generation businesses rely on power sales
contracts with one or a limited number of customers for the majority of, and in
some case all of, the relevant plant’s output and revenues over the term of the
power sales contract. The remaining term of the power sales contracts related
to our contract generation power plants ranges from 1 to 25 years. Many of
these businesses also limit their exposure to fluctuations in fuel prices by
entering into long term contracts for fuel with a limited number of suppliers.
The cash flows and results of operations of such businesses are dependent on
the continued ability of their customers and suppliers to meet their obligations
under the relevant power sales contract or fuel supply contract, respectively.
Some of contract generation businesses’ long-term power sales agreements are
for prices above current spot market prices. The loss of one or more
significant power sales contracts or fuel supply contracts, or the failure by
any of the parties to such contracts to fulfill its obligations thereunder,
could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

We have sought to reduce
this counter-party credit risk for our contract generation businesses in part
by entering into power sales contracts with utilities or other customers of
strong credit quality and by obtaining guarantees from the sovereign government
of the customer’s obligations. However, many of our contract generation
businesses’ customers do not have, or have failed to maintain, an investment
grade credit rating, and our generation businesses can not always obtain
government guarantees and if they do, the government does not always have an
investment grade credit rating. We have also sought to reduce our credit risk
by locating our plants in different geographic areas in order to mitigate the
effects of regional economic downturns. However, we cannot assure you that our
efforts to mitigate this risk will be successful.

Competition is increasing and could adversely affect
us.

The power production
markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable
competitors, many of whom may have extensive and diversified developmental or
operating experience (including both domestic and international experience) and
financial resources similar to or greater than ours. Further, in recent years,
the power production industry has been characterized by strong and increasing
competition with respect to both obtaining power sales agreements and acquiring
existing power generation assets. In certain markets, these factors have caused
reductions in prices contained in new power sales agreements and, in many
cases, have caused higher acquisition prices for existing assets 


 47 





through
competitive bidding practices. The evolution of competitive electricity markets
and the development of highly efficient gas-fired power plants have also
caused, or are anticipated to cause, price pressure in certain power markets
where we sell or intend to sell power. There can be no assurance that the
foregoing competitive factors will not have a material adverse effect on us.

Our
distribution businesses are highly regulated.

Our distribution businesses face increased regulatory
and political scrutiny in the normal conduct of their operations. This scrutiny
may adversely impact our results of operations to the extent that such scrutiny
or pressure prevents us from reducing losses as quickly as we planned or denies
us a rate increase called for by our concession agreements. In general, our
distribution businesses have lower margins and are more dependent on regulation
to ensure expected annual rate increases for inflation, capital expenditures
and increased fuel and power costs, among other things. There can be no
assurance that these rate reviews will be granted, or occur in a timely manner.

Our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, to
refinance existing corporate or subsidiary indebtedness or to fund operations,
capital expenditures, future acquisitions, construction of greenfield projects
could adversely affect our results of operations.

Our ability to arrange for financing on either a
recourse or non-recourse basis and the costs of such capital are dependent on
numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including

·       general economic and
capital market conditions,

·       the availability of bank
credit,

·       investor confidence,

·       the financial condition,
performance, prospects and credit rating of our company in general and/or that
of our subsidiary requiring the financing, and

·       changes in tax and
securities laws which are conducive to raising capital.

Should future access to capital not be available, we
may have to sell assets or decide not to build new plants or acquire existing
facilities. While a decision not to build new plants or acquire existing
facilities would not affect the results of operations of our currently
operating facilities or facilities under construction, such a decision would
affect our future growth.

Our business and results of operations could be
adversely affected by changes in our operating performance or cost structure.

We are in the business of generating and distributing
electricity, which involves certain risks that can adversely affect financial
and operating performance, including:

·       changes in the availability
of our generation facilities or distribution systems due to increases in
scheduled and unscheduled plant outages, equipment failure, labor disputes,
disruptions in fuel supply, inability to comply with regulatory or permit
requirements or catastrophic events such as fires, floods, storms, hurricanes,
earthquakes, explosions, terrorist acts or other similar occurrences; and

·       changes in our operating
cost structure, including, but not limited to, increases in costs relating to:
gas, coal, oil and other fuel; fuel transportation; purchased electricity;
operations, maintenance and repair; environmental compliance, including the
cost of purchasing emissions offsets and capital expenditures to install
environmental emission equipment; transmission access; and insurance.

Any of the above risks could adversely affect our
business and results of operations, and our ability to meet our publicly
announced projections or analysts expectations.


 48










We are subject to
significant government regulation and our business and results of operations
could be adversely affected by changes in the law or regulatory schemes.

We operate a
portfolio of electricity generation and distribution businesses in 25 countries
and, therefore, we are subject to significant and diverse government regulation.
Our inability to predict, influence or respond appropriately to changes in law
or regulatory schemes, including our inability to obtain expected or contracted
increases in electricity tariff rates or tariff adjustments for increased
expenses, could adversely impact our results of operations or our ability to
meet our publicly announced projections or analyst’s expectations. Furthermore,
changes in laws or regulations or changes in the application or interpretation
of regulatory provisions in jurisdictions where we operate, particularly our
regulated utilities where electricity tariffs are subject to regulatory review
or approval, could adversely affect our business, including, but not limited
to:

·       changes
in the determination, definition or classification of costs to be included as
reimbursable or pass-through costs,

·       changes
in the definition or determination of controllable or non-controllable costs,

·       changes
in the definition of events which may or may not qualify as changes in economic
equilibrium,

·       changes
in the timing of tariff increases, or

·       other changes in the
regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions.

Our businesses, particularly our businesses
in our competitive supply segment, may incur substantial costs and liabilities
and be exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the
wholesale electricity markets.

Our generation businesses, especially our businesses in the competitive
supply segment, sell electricity in the wholesale spot markets. Our regulated
utility businesses, and to the extent they require additional capacity our
generations businesses, also buy electricity in the wholesale spot markets. As
a result, we are exposed to the risks of rising and falling prices in those
markets. The open market wholesale prices for electricity are very volatile and
often reflect the fluctuating cost of coal, natural gas, or oil. Consequently,
any changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas, and oil may impact the
open market wholesale price of electricity.

A significant percentage of our generation facilities, particularly the
facilities in our competitive supply segment, operate wholly or partially
without long-term power sales agreements. As a result, power from these
facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis,
which if not fully hedged may affect the volatility of our financial results. In
addition, our business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated
by others; if transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or
unavailable, our ability to sell and deliver our wholesale power may be
limited.

Volatility in market prices for fuel and
electricity may result from among other things:

·       weather
conditions,

·       seasonality,

·       electricity
usage,

·       illiquid
markets,

·       transmission
or transportation constraints or inefficiencies,

·       availability
of competitively priced alternative energy sources,


 49 





·       demand for
energy commodities,

·       available
supplies of natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal,

·       generating
unit performance,

·       natural
disasters, terrorism, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events,

·       federal and
state energy and environmental regulation, legislation and policies,

·       geopolitical
concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas, and

·       general
economic conditions in areas where we generate which impact energy consumption.

We
are a holding company and our ability to make payments on our
outstanding indebtedness at the parent company level is dependent upon the
receipt of funds from our subsidiaries by way of dividends, fees, interest,
loans, or otherwise.

The AES Corporation is a
holding company with no material assets, other than the stock of its subsidiaries.
All of our revenue generating operations are conducted through our subsidiaries.
Accordingly, almost all of our cash flow is generated by the operating
activities of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct
legal entities and, unless they have expressly guaranteed any of our
indebtedness, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts
due pursuant to our debt or to make any funds available therefore, whether by
dividends, fees, loans or other payments. While some of our subsidiaries
guarantee our indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility and certain
other indebtedness, none of our subsidiaries guarantee, or is otherwise
obligated with respect to, our outstanding public debt securities. Accordingly,
our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund our other
obligations at the parent company level is dependent not only on the ability of
our subsidiaries to generate cash, but also on the ability of our subsidiaries
to distribute cash to us in the form of dividends, fees, interest, loans or
otherwise. Most of our subsidiaries are obligated, pursuant to loan agreements,
indentures or project financing arrangements, to satisfy certain restricted
payment covenants or other conditions before they may make distributions to us.
In addition, the payment of dividends or the making of loans, advances or other
payments to us may be subject to legal or regulatory restrictions. Our
subsidiaries in foreign countries may also be prevented from distributing funds
to us as a result of restrictions imposed by the foreign government on
repatriating funds or converting currencies. Any right we have to receive any
assets of any of our subsidiaries upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding
up, receivership, reorganization, assignment for the benefit of creditors,
marshaling of assets and liabilities or any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar
proceedings (and the consequent right of the holders of our indebtedness to
participate in the distribution of, or to realize proceeds from, those assets)
will be effectively subordinated to the claims of any such subsidiary’s
creditors (including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by such
subsidiary).

We may not be able to raise sufficient capital to fund
greenfield projects in certain less developed economies.

Commercial lending
institutions sometimes refuse to provide non-recourse project financing
(including financial guarantees) in certain less developed economies, thus we
have sought and will continue to seek, in such locations, direct or indirect
(through credit support or guarantees) project financing from a limited number
of multilateral or bilateral international financial institutions or agencies. As
a precondition to making such project financing available, these institutions
may also require governmental guarantees of certain project and sovereign
related risks. Depending on the policies of specific governments, such
guarantees may not be offered and as a result, we may determine that sufficient
financing will ultimately not be available to fund the related project. In
addition, we are frequently required to provide more sponsor equity for
projects that sell their electricity into the merchant market than for projects
that sell their electricity under long term contracts.


 50 





A downgrade in our
or our subsidiaries’ credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to
access the capital markets which could increase our interest costs or adversely
affect our liquidity and cash flow.

From time to time we rely on access to capital markets
as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating
cash flows. If any of our or our subsidiaries credit ratings were to be
downgraded, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms could be impaired
and our borrowing costs would increase.

Furthermore, as a result
of The AES Corporation’s credit ratings and the trading prices of its equity
and debt securities, counter parties may no longer be as willing to accept
general unsecured commitments by The AES Corporation to provide credit support.
Accordingly, with respect to both new and existing commitments, The AES
Corporation may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a
letter of credit, to backstop or replace any credit support by The AES
Corporation. We cannot provide assurance that such counter parties will accept
such guarantees in the future. In addition, to the extent The AES Corporation
is required and able to provide letters of credit or other collateral to such
counterparties, it will limit the amount of credit available to The AES
Corporation to meet its other liquidity needs.

Our generation
business in the United States is subject to the provisions of various laws and
regulations administered in whole or in part by the FERC, including the Public
Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978(“PURPA”) and the Federal Power Act. The
recently enacted Energy Policy Act of 2005 (“EPAct 2005”) made a number of
changes to these and other laws that may affect our business. Actions by the
FERC and by state utility commissions can have a material effect on our
operations.

EPAct 2005 authorizes the FERC to remove the
obligation of electric utilities under Section 210 of PURPA to enter into
new contracts for the purchase or sale of electricity from or to ‘Qualified
Facilities’ (“QFs”) if certain market conditions are met. Pursuant to this
authority the FERC has recently proposed to remove the purchase/sale obligation
for all utilities located within the control areas of the Midwest Transmission
System Operator, Inc., PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., ISO New England, Inc.
and the New York Independent System Operator. In addition, the FERC is
authorized under the new law to remove the purchase/sale obligations of
individual utilities on a case-by-case basis. While the new law does not affect
existing contracts, as a result of the changes to PURPA our QFs may face a more
difficult market environment when their current long-term contracts expire.

EPAct 2005 repealed PUHCA of 1935 and enacted PUHCA of
2005 in its place. PUHCA 1935 had the effect of requiring utility holding
companies to operate in geographically proximate regions and therefore limited
the range of potential combinations and mergers among utilities. By comparison
PUHCA 2005 has no such restrictions and simply provides the FERC and state
utility commissions with enhanced access to the books and records of certain
utility holding companies. The repeal of PUHCA 1935 may spur an increased
number of mergers and the creation of large, geographically dispersed utility
holding companies. These entities may have enhanced financial strength and
therefore an increased ability to compete with us in the U.S. generation
market.

In accordance with Congressional mandates in the
Energy Policy Act of 1992 and now in EPAct 2005, the FERC has strongly
encouraged competition in wholesale electric markets. Increased competition may
have the effect of lowering our operating margins. Among other steps, the FERC
has encouraged regional transmission organizations and independent system operators
to develop demand response bidding programs as a mechanism for responding to
peak electric demand. These programs may reduce the value of our peaking assets
which rely on very high prices during a relatively small number of hours to
recover their costs. Similarly, the FERC is encouraging the construction of new
transmission infrastructure in accordance with provisions of EPAct 2005.
Although new transmission lines may increase our market opportunities, they may
also increase the competition in our existing markets.

While the FERC continues to promote competition, some
state utility commissions have reversed course and begun to encourage the
construction of generation facilities by traditional utilities to be paid 


 51 





for on a cost-of-service
basis by retail ratepayers. Such actions have the effect of reducing sale
opportunities in the competitive wholesale generating markets in which we
operate.

Finally, EPAct 2005
affects nearly every aspect of the energy business and energy regulation. We
are still in the process of analyzing the new law’s effects, and those effects
could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We are subject to material litigation and regulatory
proceedings.

We and our affiliates are
parties to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. Investors should
review the descriptions of such matters contained in this annual report, as
well as our other periodic reports we file in the future with the Commission. There
can be no assurances that the outcome of such matters will not have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial position.

Our business is subject to stringent environmental
laws and regulations.

Our activities are subject
to stringent environmental laws and regulation by federal, state, local
authorities, international treaties and foreign governmental authorities. These
regulations generally involve emissions into the air, effluents into the water,
use of water, wetlands preservation, waste disposal, endangered species, and
noise regulation, among others. Failure to comply with such laws and
regulations or to obtain any necessary environmental permits pursuant to such
laws and regulations could result in fines or other sanctions. Environmental
laws and regulations affecting power generation and distribution are complex
and have tended to become more stringent over time. Congress and other domestic
and foreign governmental authorities have either considered or implemented
various laws and regulations to restrict or tax certain emissions, particularly
those involving air and water emissions. See the various descriptions of these
laws and regulations contained in this annual report on Form 10-K
under the caption “Regulation Matters—Environmental and Land Use
Regulations.”  These laws and regulations
have imposed, and proposed laws and regulations could impose in the future,
additional costs on the operation of our power plants. We have made and will
continue to make significant capital and other expenditures to comply with
these and other environmental laws and regulations. Changes in, or new,
environmental restrictions may force us to incur significant expenses or exceed
our estimates. There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all
or any increased environmental costs from our customers or that our business,
financial condition or results of operations would not be materially and
adversely affected by such expenditures or any changes in domestic or foreign
environmental laws and regulations.

Catastrophic events could adversely affect our
facilities and operations.

Catastrophic events such
as fires, explosions, terrorist acts or natural disasters such as floods or
tornadoes, or other similar occurrences could adversely affect our facilities,
operations, earnings and cash flow.

Our business is sensitive to variations in weather and
seasonal variations.

The energy business is
affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe
weather. We forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather, which
represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal
weather (such as warmer winters and cooler summers) where our business are
located could have a material impact on our results of operations. Storms that
interrupt our services to our customers have in the past required us, and in
the future may require us, to incur significant costs to restore services.


 52










Some of our
subsidiaries participate in defined benefit pension plans and their net pension
plan obligations may require additional significant contributions.

Certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit
pension plans covering substantially all of their respective employees. Of the
thirteen defined benefit plans, two are at U.S. subsidiaries and the remaining
plans are at foreign subsidiaries. Pension costs are based upon a number of
actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on
pension plan assets, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and
the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension
obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be wrong, resulting in a
shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the
pension plan. Our subsidiaries who participate in these plans are responsible
for funding any shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension
obligations under the pension plan. Future downturns in the equity markets, or
the failure of any of our assumptions underlying the estimates of our
subsidiaries’ pension plan obligations to prove correct, could increase the
underfunding of the pension plan. This may necessitate additional cash
contributions to the pension plans that could adversely affect our and our
subsidiaries’ liquidity.

See “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical
Accounting Estimates—Pension and Postretirement Obligations” and footnote 12 to
our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

The operation of
power generation facilities involves significant risks that could adversely
affect our financial results.

The operation of
power generation facilities involves many risks, including:

·       equipment
failure causing unplanned outages,

·       failure
of transmission systems,

·       the
dependence on a specified fuel source, including the transportation of fuel, or

·       the
impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters
such as hurricanes) or

·       environmental
compliance

Any of these risks could
have an adverse effect on our generation facilities. A portion of our
generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating
equipment may require significant capital expenditures to keep it operating at
peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading
and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may
prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements
which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or
incurring a liability for liquidated damages.

We may not fully hedge our exposure against changes in
commodity prices.

To lower our financial
exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into
contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for
electricity, fuel requirements and other commodities. As part of this strategy,
we routinely utilize fixed-price forward physical purchase and sales contracts,
futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter
markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our
assets or positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over
time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results
to the extent we have unhedged positions.


 53 





ITEM 1B