ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

You should consider carefully the following risks,
along with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference in
this Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties also may
adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item
7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following events
actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially
adversely affected.

Risks Associated with our Disclosure Controls
and Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
financial reporting were determined not to be effective as of December 31,
2006, December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, as evidenced by the
material weaknesses that existed in our internal controls. Our disclosure
controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not
be effective in future periods, as a result of existing or newly identified
material weaknesses in internal controls.

Our management
reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting
at the end of 2006, 2005 and 2004. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a
combination of deficiencies, that adversely affects a company’s ability to
initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data
reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that
there is more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the
annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Our
management concluded that as of December 31, 2006, December 31, 2005
and December 31, 2004, we did not maintain effective internal control over
financial reporting and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures
were not effective to provide reasonable assurance that financial information
we are required to disclose in our reports under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 


 49 






was
recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately. For a discussion of
the material weaknesses reported by AES’s management as of December 31,
2006 and December 31, 2005 see Item 9A of this 2006 Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

During the remediation efforts to correct the material
weakness that was identified at the end of 2004, errors were discovered in our
financial statements which resulted from such material weakness, as well as
errors resulting from newly identified material weaknesses. These errors
required us to restate our financial statements that were previously filed in
our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2004 and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2005. During the 2005 year-end closing process and the first quarter of 2006,
additional errors were identified relating to the existing material weakness
and newly identified material weaknesses that required us to restate prior
period financial statements on January 19, 2006 and April 4, 2006. In
addition, during the 2006 year-end closing process further errors were
identified relating to existing material weaknesses as well as related to newly
identified material weaknesses that required us to restate our previously filed
10-K’s and 10-Q’s for a fourth time. To address these material
weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, each time we
prepared our annual and quarterly reports we performed additional analysis and
other post-closing procedures in order to prepare our consolidated financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These
additional procedures are costly, time consuming and require us to dedicate a
significant amount of our resources, including the time and attention of our
senior management, toward the correction of these problems.

Although we reported remediation of certain material
weaknesses as of December 31, 2006 and continue to execute plans to
remediate the remaining material weaknesses in 2007, there can be no assurance
as to when the remediation plans will be fully implemented, nor can there be
any assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the
future. Due to our decentralized structure and our disparate accounting systems,
we have additional work remaining to remediate our material weaknesses in
internal control over financial reporting. Until our remediation efforts are
completed, we will continue to be at an increased risk that our financial
statements could contain errors that will be undetected, and we will continue
to incur significant expense and management burdens associated with the
additional procedures required to prepare our consolidated financial
statements.

Management, including our
CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls will prevent or detect
all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and
operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control
system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the
benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Any evaluation
of the effectiveness of controls is subject to risks that those internal controls
may become inadequate in future periods because of changes in business
conditions, changes in accounting practice or policy, or that the degree of
compliance with the revised policies or procedures deteriorates.

Our identification of material weaknesses in internal control over
financial reporting caused us to miss deadlines for certain SEC filings and if
further filing delays occur, they could result in negative attention and/or
legal consequences for the Company.

Our identification of the
material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting caused us to
delay the filing of certain quarterly and annual reports with the SEC to dates
that went beyond the deadline prescribed by the SEC’s rules to file such
reports.

We did not timely file
with the SEC our quarterly and annual reports for the year ended December 31,
2005; our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2006; and our
quarterly report for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. Under SEC rules,
failure to timely file these reports prohibits us from offering and selling our
securities pursuant to our shelf registration statement on Form S-3,
which has impaired and will continue to impair our ability to access the
capital markets through the public sale of 


 50 






registered
securities in a timely manner. We will regain our S-3 eligibility on June 1,
2008 if we timely file all required reports until that date.

The failure to file our 2005 and 2006 annual reports
with the SEC in a timely fashion also resulted in covenant defaults under our
Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indenture governing certain of our
outstanding debt securities. Such defaults required us to obtain a waiver from
the lender under the Senior Secured Credit Facility, while the default under
the indentures was cured upon the filing of the reports within the permitted
grace period.

Until our remediation
efforts are completed, there will continue to be an increased risk that we will
be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that a
related default under our senior secured credit facilities and indentures could
occur. In addition, the material weaknesses in internal control, the
restatements, and the delay in the filing of our quarterly reports and any
similar problems in the future could have other adverse effects on our
business, including, but not limited to:

·       impairing our
ability to access the capital markets, including, but not limited to the
inability to offer and sell securities pursuant to a shelf registration
statement on Form S-3;

·       litigation or
an expansion of the SEC’s informal inquiry into our restatements or the
commencement of formal proceedings by the SEC or other regulatory authorities,
which could require us to incur significant legal expenses and other costs or
to pay damages, fines or other penalties;

·       additional
covenant defaults, and potential events of default, under our senior secured
credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding debt securities,
resulting from our failure to timely file our financial statements;

·       negative
publicity;

·       ratings
downgrades; or

·       the loss or
impairment of investor confidence in the Company.

Risks Related to our High
Level of Indebtedness

We
have a significant amount of debt, a large percentage of which is secured,
which could adversely affect our business and the ability to fulfill our obligations.

As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately
$16.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis. All
outstanding borrowings under The AES Corporation’s Senior Secured Credit
Facility, our Second Priority Senior Secured Notes and certain other
indebtedness are secured by certain of our assets, including the pledge of
capital stock of many of The AES Corporation’s directly-held subsidiaries. Most
of the debt of The AES Corporation’s subsidiaries is secured by substantially
all of the assets of those subsidiaries. Since we have such a high level of
debt, a substantial portion of cash flow from operations must be used to make
payment on this debt. Furthermore, since a significant percentage of our assets
are used to secure this debt, this reduces the amount of collateral that is
available for future secured debt or credit support and reduces our flexibility
in dealing with these secured assets. This high level of indebtedness and
related security could have other important consequences to us and our
investors, including:

·       making
it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations;

·       increasing
the likelihood of a downgrade of our debt, which can cause future debt payments
to increase and consume an even greater portion of cash flow;

·       increasing
our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

·       reducing
the availability of cash flow to fund other corporate purposes and grow our
business;

·       limiting
our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and
the industry;


 51 






·       placing
us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that are not as highly
leveraged; and

·       limiting, along with the
financial and other restrictive covenants relating to such indebtedness, among
other things, our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take
advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or
repurchase common stock.

The agreements governing
our indebtedness, including the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, limit but do
not prohibit the incurrence of additional indebtedness. To the extent we become
more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. Further, our actual
cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Accordingly, our
cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the
outstanding debt as it becomes due and, in that event, we may not be able to
borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at
all to refinance our debt as it becomes due.

The AES Corporation is a holding
company and its ability to make payments on its outstanding
indebtedness, including its public debt securities, is dependent upon the
receipt of funds from its subsidiaries by way of dividends, fees, interest,
loans or otherwise.

The AES Corporation is a holding company with no
material assets, other than the stock of its subsidiaries. All of The AES
Corporation’s revenue is generated through its subsidiaries. Accordingly,
almost all of The AES Corporation’s cash flow is generated by the operating
activities of its subsidiaries. Therefore, The AES Corporation’s ability to
make payments on its indebtedness and to fund its other obligations is
dependent not only on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate cash, but
also on the ability of the subsidiaries to distribute cash to it in the form of
dividends, fees, interest, loans or otherwise.

However, our subsidiaries face various restrictions in
their ability to distribute cash to The AES Corporation. Most of the subsidiaries
are obligated, pursuant to loan agreements, indentures or project financing
arrangements, to satisfy certain restricted payment covenants or other
conditions before they may make distributions to The AES Corporation. In
addition, the payment of dividends or the making of loans, advances or other
payments to The AES Corporation may be subject to legal or regulatory
restrictions. Business performance and local accounting and tax rules may
limit the amount of retained earnings, which is in many cases the basis of
dividend payments. Subsidiaries in foreign countries may also be prevented from
distributing funds to The AES Corporation as a result of restrictions imposed
by the foreign government on repatriating funds or converting currencies. Any
right The AES Corporation has to receive any assets of any of its subsidiaries
upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up, receivership, reorganization,
assignment for the benefit of creditors, marshaling of assets and liabilities
or any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings (and the consequent right
of the holders of The AES Corporation’s indebtedness to participate in the
distribution of, or to realize proceeds from, those assets) will be effectively
subordinated to the claims of any such subsidiary’s creditors (including trade
creditors and holders of debt issued by such subsidiary).

The AES Corporation’s
subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and, unless they have
expressly guaranteed any of The AES Corporation’s indebtedness, have no obligation,
contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to such debt or to
make any funds available therefore, whether by dividends, fees, loans or other
payments. While some of The AES Corporation’s subsidiaries guarantee its
indebtedness under its Senior Secured Credit Facility and certain other
indebtedness, none of its subsidiaries guarantee, or are otherwise obligated
with respect to, its outstanding public debt securities.

Even though The AES Corporation is a holding company,
existing and potential future defaults by subsidiaries or affiliates could
adversely affect The AES Corporation.

We attempt to finance our domestic and foreign
projects primarily under loan agreements and related documents which, except as
noted below, require the loans to be repaid solely from the project’s revenues
and provide that the repayment of the loans (and interest thereon) is secured
solely by the capital stock, 


 52 






physical assets, contracts
and cash flow of that project subsidiary or affiliate. This type of financing
is usually referred to as non-recourse debt or “project financing.” In some
project financings, The AES Corporation has explicitly agreed to undertake
certain limited obligations and contingent liabilities, most of which by their
terms will only be effective or will be terminated upon the occurrence of
future events. These obligations and liabilities take the form of guarantees,
indemnities, letter of credit reimbursement agreements and agreements to pay,
in certain circumstances, the project lenders or other parties.

As of December 31,
2006, we had approximately $16.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a
consolidated basis, of which approximately $4.8 billion was recourse debt of
The AES Corporation and approximately $11.5 billion was non-recourse debt. In
addition, at December 31, 2006, The AES Corporation had provided:

·       financial
and performance related guarantees or other credit support commitments to or
for the benefit of its subsidiaries, which were limited by the terms of the
agreements, to an aggregate of approximately $533 million; and

·       $461
million in letters of credit outstanding and $1 million in surety bonds
outstanding, which operate to guarantee performance relating to certain project
construction and development activities and subsidiary operations.

The AES Corporation is also obligated under other
commitments, which are limited to amounts, or percentages of amounts, received
by The AES Corporation as distributions from its project subsidiaries. In
addition, The AES Corporation has commitments to fund its equity in projects
currently under development or in construction.

Some of our
subsidiaries are currently in default with respect to all or a portion of their
outstanding indebtedness. The total debt classified as current in our consolidated
balance sheets related to such defaults was $245 million at December 31,
2006. While the lenders under our non-recourse project financings
generally do not have direct recourse to The AES Corporation (other than to the
extent of any credit support given by The AES Corporation), defaults thereunder
can still have important consequences for The AES Corporation, including,
without limitation:

·       reducing
The AES Corporation’s receipt of subsidiary dividends, fees, interest, loan and
other sources of cash since the project subsidiary will typically be prohibited
from distributing cash to The AES Corporation during the pendancy of any
default;

·       triggering
The AES Corporation’s obligation to make payments under any financial
guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support which The AES Corporation
has provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary;

·       causing
The AES Corporation to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the
assets;

·       triggering
defaults in The AES Corporation’s outstanding debt and trust preferred
instruments. For example, The AES Corporation’s Senior Secured Credit Facility
and outstanding senior notes include events of default for certain bankruptcy
related events involving material subsidiaries. In addition, The AES Corporation’s
Senior Secured Credit Facility includes certain events of default relating to
accelerations of outstanding debt of material subsidiaries; or

·       the
loss or impairment of investor confidence in the Company.

None of the projects that
are currently in default are owned by subsidiaries that meet the applicable
definition of materiality in The AES Corporation’s Senior Secured Credit
Facility in order for such defaults to trigger an event of default or permit
acceleration under such indebtedness. However, as a result of future write down
of assets, dispositions and other matters that affect our financial position
and results of operations, it is possible that one or more of these
subsidiaries could fall within the definition of a “material subsidiary” and
thereby upon an acceleration of such subsidiary’s debt, trigger an event of 


 53 






default
and possible acceleration of the indebtedness under The AES Corporation’s
Senior Secured Credit Facility.

Risks Associated
with our Ability to Raise Needed Capital

The AES Corporation has significant cash requirements
and limited sources of liquidity.

The AES Corporation
requires cash primarily to fund:

·       principal
repayments of debt;

·       interest
and preferred dividends;

·       acquisitions;

·       construction
and other project commitments;

·       other
equity commitments, including business development investments;

·       taxes;
and

·       parent
company overhead costs.

The
AES Corporation’s principal sources of liquidity are:

·       dividends
and other distributions from its subsidiaries;

·       proceeds
from debt and equity financings at the parent company level; and

·       proceeds
from asset sales.

For a more detailed discussion of The AES Corporation’s
cash requirements and sources of liquidity, please see “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Resources and Liquidity”
in this 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

While we believe that
these sources will be adequate to meet our obligations at the parent company
level for the foreseeable future, this belief is based on a number of material
assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about our ability to
access the capital or commercial lending markets, the operating and financial
performance of our subsidiaries, exchange rates and the ability of our
subsidiaries to pay dividends. Any number of assumptions could prove to be
incorrect and therefore there can be no assurance that these sources will be
available when needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater
than expected. In addition, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay at
maturity all of the principal outstanding under our Senior Secured Credit
Facility and our debt securities and may have to refinance such obligations. There
can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such refinancing
and any of these events could have a material effect on us.

Our ability to grow our business could be materially
adversely affected if we were unable to raise capital on favorable terms.

Our ability to
arrange for financing on either a recourse or non-recourse basis and the costs
of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our
control, including:

·       general
economic and capital market conditions;

·       the
availability of bank credit;

·       investor
confidence;

·       the
financial condition, performance and prospects of The AES Corporation in
general and/or that of any subsidiary requiring the financing; and

·       changes
in tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital.


 54 






Should future access to
capital not be available, we may have to sell assets or decide not to build new
plants or acquire existing facilities, either of which would affect our future
growth.

A downgrade in the credit ratings of The AES
Corporation or its subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to access
the capital markets which could increase our interest costs or adversely affect
our liquidity and cash flow.

From time to time, we rely on access to capital
markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by
operating cash flows. If any of the credit ratings of The AES Corporation or
its subsidiaries were to be downgraded, our ability to raise capital on
favorable terms could be impaired and our borrowing costs would increase.

Furthermore, depending on
The AES Corporation’s credit ratings and the trading prices of its equity and
debt securities, counter parties may no longer be as willing to accept general
unsecured commitments by The AES Corporation to provide credit support. Accordingly,
with respect to both new and existing commitments, The AES Corporation may be
required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit,
to backstop or replace any credit support by The AES Corporation. There can be
no assurance that such counter parties will accept such guarantees in the
future. In addition, to the extent The AES Corporation is required and able to
provide letters of credit or other collateral to such counterparties; it will
limit the amount of credit available to The AES Corporation to meet its other
liquidity needs.

We may not be able to raise sufficient capital to fund
“greenfield” projects in certain less developed economies which could change or
in some cases adversely affect our growth strategy.

Part of our strategy
is to grow our business by developing Generation and Utility businesses in less
developed economies where the return on our investment may be greater than
projects in more developed economies. Commercial lending institutions sometimes
refuse to provide non-recourse project financing in certain less developed
economies, and in these situations we have sought and will continue to seek
direct or indirect (through credit support or guarantees) project financing
from a limited number of multilateral or bilateral international financial
institutions or agencies. As a precondition to making such project financing
available, the lending institutions may also require governmental guarantees of
certain project and sovereign related risks. There can be no assurance,
however, that project financing from the international financial agencies or
that governmental guarantees will be available when needed, and if they are
not, we may have to abandon the project or invest more of our own funds which
may not be in line with our investment objectives and would leave less funds
for other projects.

External Risks
Associated with Revenue and Earnings Volatility

Our financial position and results of operations may
fluctuate significantly due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates experienced
at our foreign operations.

Our exposure to currency
exchange rate fluctuations results primarily from the translation exposure
associated with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, as
well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies
other than an entity’s functional currency. While our consolidated financial
statements are reported in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of many of
our subsidiaries outside the United States are prepared using the local currency
as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars by applying
appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of
the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies where our subsidiaries outside
the United States report could cause significant fluctuations in our results.
In addition, while our expenses with respect to foreign operations are
generally denominated in the same currency as corresponding sales, we have
transaction exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not offsetting
in the subsidiary’s functional currency. We also experience foreign transaction
exposure to the extent monetary assets and liabilities, including debt, are in
a different currency than the subsidiary’s functional currency. Moreover, the
costs of doing business abroad may increase as a result of adverse exchange
rate fluctuations. Our 


 55 






financial
position and results of operations have been significantly affected by
fluctuations in the value of a number of currencies, primarily the Brazilian
real, Venezuelan bolivar and Argentine peso. As our Brazilian and Argentine
businesses primarily identify their local currency as its functional currency,
devaluation of these currencies has resulted in deferred translation losses
(foreign currency translation adjustments recognized in accumulated other
comprehensive loss) based on positive net asset positions. Devaluation has also
resulted in foreign currency transaction losses primarily associated with U.S.
dollar debt at these businesses. As our Venezuelan business identifies the U.S.
dollar as its functional currency, no deferred translation gains or losses are
recognized. However, devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar has resulted in
foreign currency transaction gains associated with U.S. dollar at this
subsidiary. In addition, because it is difficult to estimate the overall impact
of foreign exchange fluctuations related to translation exposure on our results
of operations, we do not separately quantify the impact on earnings.

Our businesses may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be
exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the wholesale
electricity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our
financial performance.

Some of our Generation businesses sell electricity in
the wholesale spot markets in cases where they operate wholly or partially
without long-term power sales agreements. Our Utility businesses and, to the
extent they require additional capacity, our Generation business, also buys
electricity in the wholesale spot markets. As a result, we are exposed to the
risks of rising and falling prices in those markets. The open market wholesale
prices for electricity are very volatile and often reflect the fluctuating cost
of coal, natural gas, or oil. Consequently, any changes in the supply and cost
of coal, natural gas, and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of
electricity.

Volatility in
market prices for fuel and electricity may result from among other things:

·       plant
availability;

·       competition;

·       demand for
energy commodities;

·       electricity
usage;

·       seasonality;

·       interest rate
and foreign exchange rate fluctuation;

·       availability
and price of emission credits;

·       input prices;

·       weather;

·       illiquid
markets;

·       transmission
or transportation constraints or inefficiencies;

·       availability
of competitively priced alternative energy sources;

·       available
supplies of natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal;

·       generating
unit performance;

·       natural
disasters, terrorism, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events;

·       energy,
market and environmental regulation, legislation and policies;

·       geopolitical
concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas; and

·       general
economic conditions in areas where we operate which impact energy consumption.


 56










In addition, our business
depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others. If
transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, our ability
to sell and deliver power may be limited. Several of our Alternative Energy initiatives
may, if we are successful in developing them further, operate without long-term
sales or fuel supply agreements, and, as a result, may experience significant
volatility in their results of operations.

We may not be adequately hedged against our exposure
to changes in commodity prices.

We routinely enter into
contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for
electricity, fuel requirements and other commodities to lower our financial
exposure related to commodity price fluctuations. As part of this strategy, we
routinely utilize fixed-price forward physical purchase and sales contracts,
futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter
markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our
assets or positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over
time. Furthermore, the risk management procedures we have in place may not
always be followed or may not work as planned. In particular, if prices of
commodities significantly deviate from historical prices or if the price
volatility or distribution of these changes deviates from historical norms, our
risk management system may not protect us from significant losses. As a result
fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the
extent we have unhedged or inadequately hedged positions. In addition, certain
types of economic hedging activities may not qualify for hedge accounting under
GAAP, resulting in increased volatility in our net income.

Certain of our businesses are sensitive to variations
in weather.

The energy business is
affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe
weather. Our businesses forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather,
which represents a long-term historical average. While we also consider
possible variations in normal weather patterns and potential impacts on our
facilities and our businesses, there can be no assurance that such planning can
prevent these impacts, which can adversely affect our business. Generally,
demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer. Typically, when winters are
warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is
lower, resulting in less electric consumption than forecasted. Significant
variations from normal weather where our businesses are located could have a
material impact on our results of operations.

Risks Associated
with our Operations

We do a significant amount of business outside the
United States which presents significant risks.

During 2006,
approximately 79% of our revenue was generated outside the United States and a
significant portion of our international operations is conducted in developing
countries. Part of our growth strategy is to expand our business in developing
countries because the growth rates and the opportunity to implement operating
improvements and achieve higher operating margins may be greater than those
typically achievable in more developed countries. International operations,
particularly the operation, financing and development of projects in developing
countries, entail significant risks and uncertainties, including, without
limitation:

·       economic,
social and political instability in any particular country or region;

·       adverse
changes in currency exchange rates;

·       government
restrictions on converting currencies or repatriating funds;

·       unexpected
changes in foreign laws and regulations or in trade, monetary or fiscal
policies;

·       high
inflation and monetary fluctuations;


 57 






·       restrictions
on imports of coal, oil, gas or other raw materials required by our generation
businesses to operate;

·       threatened
or consummated expropriation or nationalization of our assets by foreign
governments;

·       difficulties
in hiring, training and retaining qualified personnel, particularly finance and
accounting personnel with U.S. GAAP expertise;

·       unwillingness
of governments, government agencies or similar organizations to honor their
contracts;

·       inability
to obtain access to fair and equitable political, regulatory, administrative
and legal systems;

·       adverse
changes in government tax policy;

·       difficulties
in enforcing our contractual rights or enforcing judgments or obtaining a just
result in local jurisdictions; and

·       potentially
adverse tax consequences of operating in multiple jurisdictions.

Any of these factors, by
itself or in combination with others, could materially and adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, we
recently sold our stake in EDC to PDVSA, a state owned company in Venezuela
after Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez threatened to expropriate the
electricity business in Venezuela. We expect to recognize an impairment charge
of approximately $600 to $650 million. In addition, our Latin American
operations experience volatility in revenues and earnings which have caused and
are expected to cause significant volatility in our results of operations and
cash flows. The volatility is caused by regulatory and economic difficulties,
political instability and currency devaluations being experienced in many of
these countries. This volatility reduces the predictability and enhances the
uncertainty associated with cash flows from these businesses.

The operation of power generation and distribution
facilities involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial
results.

The operation of
power generation and distribution facilities involves many risks, including:

·       equipment
failure causing unplanned outages;

·       failure
of transmission systems;

·       the
dependence on a specified fuel source, including the transportation of fuel;

·       catastrophic
event such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes and similar occurrences;
and

·       environmental
compliance.

Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our
generation and distribution facilities. In addition, a portion of our
generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating
equipment may require significant capital expenditures to keep it operating at
peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading
and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may
prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements
which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or
incurring a liability for liquidated damages.

As a result of the above risks and other potential
hazards associated with the power generation and distribution industries, we
may from time to time become exposed to significant liabilities for which we
may not have adequate insurance coverage. Power generation involves hazardous
activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating
large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering 


 58 






electricity to
transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as
earthquake, flood, lightning, hurricane and wind, hazards, such as fire,
explosion, collapse and machinery failure, are inherent risks in our operations
which may occur as a result of inadequate internal processes, technological
flaws, human error or certain external events. The control and management of
these risks are based on adequate development and training of personnel and on
the existence of operational procedures, preventative maintenance plans and
specific programs supported by quality control systems which minimize the
possibility of the occurrence and impact of these risks.

The hazards described above
can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and
destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to,
the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of
these events may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting
claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury
and fines and/or penalties. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that
we believe is adequate, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will
be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or
liabilities to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not
fully insured could hurt our financial results and materially harm our
financial condition. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the
insurance markets, we cannot provide assurance that insurance coverage will
continue to be available at all or on terms similar to those presently
available to us. Any such losses not covered by insurance could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Our ability to attract and retain skilled people could have a material
adverse effect on our operations.

Our operating success and
ability to carry out growth initiatives depends in part on our ability to
retain executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who
have experience in our industry and in operating a company of our size and
complexity, including people in our foreign businesses. The inability to
attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on
our business, because of the difficulty of promptly finding qualified
replacements. In particular we routinely are required to assess the financial
and tax impacts of complicated business transactions which occur on a worldwide
basis. These assessments are dependent on hiring personnel on a worldwide basis
with sufficient expertise in U.S. GAAP to timely and accurately comply with
U.S. reporting obligations. An inability to maintain adequate internal
accounting and managerial controls and hire and retain qualified personnel
could have an adverse affect on our ability to report our financial condition
and results of operations.

We have contractual obligations to certain customers
to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and
plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to
certain of our businesses.

We have contractual obligations
to certain customers to supply power to satisfy all or a portion of their
energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of power that our
power generation and distribution facilities must be prepared to supply to
customers may increase our operating costs. A significant under or
over-estimation of load requirements could result in our facilities not having
enough or having too much power to cover their obligations, in which case we
would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing
market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our
operating costs.

Much of our generation business is dependent on one or
a limited number of customers and a limited number of fuel suppliers.

Many of our generation plants conduct business under
long-term contracts. In these instances we rely on power sales contracts with
one or a limited number of customers for the majority of, and in some case all
of, the relevant plant’s output and revenues over the term of the power sales
contract. The remaining terms of the power sales contracts range from 1 to
25 years. In many cases, we also limit our exposure to 


 59 






fluctuations in fuel
prices by entering into long-term contracts for fuel with a limited number of
suppliers. In these instances, the cash flows and results of operations are
dependent on the continued ability of customers and suppliers to meet their
obligations under the relevant power sales contract or fuel supply contract,
respectively. Some of our long-term power sales agreements are for prices above
current spot market prices. The loss of significant power sales contracts or
fuel supply contracts, or the failure by any of the parties to such contracts
to fulfill our obligations thereunder, could have a material adverse impact on
our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We have sought to reduce
this counter-party credit risk under these contracts in part by entering into
power sales contracts with utilities or other customers of strong credit
quality and by obtaining guarantees from the sovereign government of the
customer’s obligations. However, many of our customers do not have, or have
failed to maintain, an investment grade credit rating, and our Generation
business can not always obtain government guarantees and if they do, the
government does not always have an investment grade credit rating. We have also
sought to reduce our credit risk by locating our plants in different geographic
areas in order to mitigate the effects of regional economic downturns. However,
there can be no assurance that our efforts to mitigate this risk will be
successful.

Competition is increasing and could adversely affect
us.

The power production
markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable
competitors, many of whom may have extensive and diversified developmental or
operating experience (including both domestic and international experience) and
financial resources similar to or greater than us. Further, in recent years,
the power production industry has been characterized by strong and increasing
competition with respect to both obtaining power sales agreements and acquiring
existing power generation assets. In certain markets these factors have caused
reductions in prices contained in new power sales agreements and, in many
cases, have caused higher acquisition prices for existing assets through
competitive bidding practices. The evolution of competitive electricity markets
and the development of highly efficient gas-fired power plants have also
caused, or are anticipated to cause, price pressure in certain power markets
where we sell or intend to sell power. The foregoing competitive factors could
have a material adverse effect on us.

Our business and results of operations could be
adversely affected by changes in our operating performance or cost structure.

We are in the
business of generating and distributing electricity, which involves certain
risks that can adversely affect financial and operating performance, including:

·       changes
in the availability of our generation facilities or distribution systems due to
increases in scheduled and unscheduled plant outages, equipment failure, labor
disputes, disruptions in fuel supply, inability to comply with regulatory or
permit requirements or catastrophic events such as fires, floods, storms,
hurricanes, earthquakes, explosions, terrorist acts or other similar
occurrences; and

·       changes
in our operating cost structure including, but not limited to, increases in
costs relating to: gas, coal, oil and other fuel; fuel transportation;
purchased electricity; operations, maintenance and repair; environmental
compliance, including the cost of purchasing emissions offsets and capital
expenditures to install environmental emission equipment; transmission access;
and insurance.

Any of the above risks
could adversely affect our business and results of operations, and our ability
to meet publicly announced projections or analysts’ expectations.


 60 






Our business is subject to substantial development
uncertainties.

Certain of our
subsidiaries and affiliates are in various stages of developing and
constructing “greenfield” power plants, some but not all of which have signed
long-term contracts or made similar arrangements for the sale of electricity. Successful
completion depends upon overcoming substantial risks, including, but not
limited to, risks relating to failures of siting, financing, construction,
permitting, governmental approvals or the potential for termination of the
power sales contract as a result of a failure to meet certain milestones. We
believe that capitalized costs for projects under development are recoverable;
however, there can be no assurance that any individual project will be
completed and reach commercial operation. If these development efforts are not
successful, we may abandon a project under development and write off the costs
incurred in connection with such project. At the time of abandonment, we would
expense all capitalized development costs incurred in connection therewith and
could incur additional losses associated with any related contingent
liabilities.

Our acquisitions may not perform as expected.

Historically, we
have achieved a majority of our growth through acquisitions. We plan to
continue to grow our business through acquisitions. Although acquired
businesses may have significant operating histories, we will have a limited or
no history of owning and operating many of these businesses and possibly
limited or no experience operating in the country or region where these
businesses are located. Some of these businesses may be government owned and
some may be operated as part of a larger integrated utility prior to their
acquisition. If we were to acquire any of these types of businesses, there can
be no assurance that:

·       we
will be successful in transitioning them to private ownership;

·       such
businesses will perform as expected;

·       we
will not incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities;

·       such
business will generate sufficient cash flow to support the indebtedness incurred
to acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to develop them; or

·       the rate of return from
such businesses will justify our decision to invest our capital to acquire
them.

In some of our joint venture projects, we have granted protective rights
to minority holders or we own less than a majority of the equity in the project
and do not manage or otherwise control the project, which entails certain
risks.

We have invested in some joint ventures where we own
less than a majority of the voting equity in the venture. Very often, we seek
to exert a degree of influence with respect to the management and operation of
projects in which we have less than a majority of the ownership interests by
operating the project pursuant to a management contract, negotiating to obtain
positions on management committees or to receive certain limited governance
rights, such as rights to veto significant actions. However, we do not always
have this type of control over the project in every instance; and we may be
dependent on our co-venturers to operate such projects. Our co-venturers may
not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources,
management and other attributes necessary to operate these projects optimally. The
approval of co-venturers also may be required for us to receive distributions
of funds from projects or to transfer our interest in projects.

In some joint venture
agreements where we do have majority control of the voting securities, we have
entered into shareholder agreements granting protective minority rights to the
other shareholders. In Brasiliana, for example, where we have a controlling
equity position, BNDES (or its affiliates) own more than 49 percent of the
voting equity. If BNDES decides to sell all of its shares, it has “drag along”
rights with respect to our shares, which means that, if BNDES finds a third
party buyer that wants to purchase its 


 61 






shares
and our shares, BNDES has the right to cause us to sell our shares in Brasiliana
to this buyer. We do have certain protections against this drag along right,
such as the price must be at least the fair market value of the shares, and we
have a right to acquire all of BNDES shares at this same price. Nevertheless,
if we declined to purchase the BNDES shares, we could be forced to sell our
interest.

Our Alternative Energy businesses face uncertain
operational risks.

In many instances, our
Alternative Energy businesses target industries that are created by, or
significantly affected by technological innovation or new lines of business
that are outside our core expertise of Generation and Utilities. Given the
nascent nature of these industries, our ability to predict actual performance
results may be hindered and we ultimately may not be successful in these areas.

Our Alternative Energy businesses may experience
higher levels of volatility.

Our Alternative Energy
efforts are, to some degree, focused on new or emerging markets. As these
markets develop, long-term fixed priced contracts for the major cost and
revenue components may be unavailable, which may result in these businesses
having relatively high levels of volatility.

Risks associated
with Governmental Regulation and Laws

Our operations are subject to significant government
regulation and our business and results of operations could be adversely
affected by changes in the law or regulatory schemes.

Our inability to
predict, influence or respond appropriately to changes in law or regulatory
schemes, including any inability to obtain expected or contracted increases in
electricity tariff rates or tariff adjustments for increased expenses, could
adversely impact our results of operations or our ability to meet publicly
announced projections or analyst’s expectations. Furthermore, changes in laws
or regulations or changes in the application or interpretation of regulatory
provisions in jurisdictions where we operate, particularly our Utilities where
electricity tariffs are subject to regulatory review or approval, could
adversely affect our business, including, but not limited to:

·       changes
in the determination, definition or classification of costs to be included as
reimbursable or pass-through costs;

·       changes
in the definition or determination of controllable or non-controllable costs;

·       changes
in the definition of events which may or may not qualify as changes in economic
 equilibrium;

·       changes
in the timing of tariff increases; or

·       other
changes in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions.

Any of the above events
may result in lower margins for the affected businesses, which can adversely
affect our business.

Our Generation business in the United States is
subject to the provisions of various laws and regulations administered in whole
or in part by the FERC, including the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of
1978 (“PURPA”) and the Federal Power Act. The recently enacted Energy Policy
Act of 2005 (“EPAct 2005”) made a number of changes to these and other laws
that may affect our business. Actions by the FERC and by state utility
commissions can have a material effect on our operations.

EPAct 2005 authorizes the FERC to remove the
obligation of electric utilities under Section 210 of PURPA to enter into
new contracts for the purchase or sale of electricity from or to ‘Qualified
Facilities’ (“QFs”) if certain market conditions are met. Pursuant to this
authority, the FERC has proposed to remove the purchase/sale obligation for all
utilities located within the control areas of the Midwest 


 62 






Transmission System
Operator, Inc., PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., ISO New England, Inc.
and the New York Independent System Operator. In addition, the FERC is
authorized under the new law to remove the purchase/sale obligations of
individual utilities on a case-by-case basis. While the new law does not affect
existing contracts, as a result of the changes to PURPA, our QFs may face a
more difficult market environment when their current long-term contracts
expire.

EPAct 2005 repealed PUHCA of 1935 and enacted PUHCA of
2005 in its place. PUHCA 1935 had the effect of requiring utility holding
companies to operate in geographically proximate regions and therefore limited
the range of potential combinations and mergers among utilities. By comparison
PUHCA 2005 has no such restrictions and simply provides the FERC and state
utility commissions with enhanced access to the books and records of certain
utility holding companies. The repeal of PUHCA 1935 may spur an increased
number of mergers and the creation of large, geographically dispersed utility
holding companies. These entities may have enhanced financial strength and
therefore an increased ability to compete with the Company in the U.S.
generation market.

In accordance with Congressional mandates in the
Energy Policy Act of 1992 and now in EPAct 2005, the FERC has strongly
encouraged competition in wholesale electric markets. Increased competition may
have the effect of lowering our operating margins. Among other steps the FERC
has encouraged regional transmission organizations and independent system
operators to develop demand response bidding programs as a mechanism for
responding to peak electric demand. These programs may reduce the value of our
peaking assets which rely on very high prices during a relatively small number
of hours to recover their costs. Similarly, the FERC is encouraging the
construction of new transmission infrastructure in accordance with provisions
of EPAct 2005. Although new transmission lines may increase market
opportunities, they may also increase the competition in our existing markets.

While the FERC continues to promote competition, some
state utility commissions have reversed course and begun to encourage the
construction of generation facilities by traditional utilities to be paid for
on a cost-of-service basis by retail ratepayers. Such actions have the effect
of reducing sale opportunities in the competitive wholesale generating markets
in which we operate.

Finally, EPAct 2005
affects nearly every aspect of the energy business and energy regulation. We
are still in the process of analyzing the new law’s effects, and those effects
could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our businesses are subject to stringent environmental
laws and regulations.

Our activities are subject
to stringent environmental laws and regulation by many federal, state, local
authorities, international treaties and foreign governmental authorities. These
regulations generally involve emissions into the air, effluents into the water,
use of water, wetlands preservation, waste disposal, endangered species and
noise regulation, among others. Failure to comply with such laws and
regulations or to obtain any necessary environmental permits pursuant to such
laws and regulations could result in fines or other sanctions. Environmental
laws and regulations affecting power generation and distribution are complex
and have tended to become more stringent over time. Congress and other domestic
and foreign governmental authorities have either considered or implemented
various laws and regulations to restrict or tax certain emissions, particularly
those involving air and water emissions. See the various descriptions of these
laws and regulations contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
under the caption “Regulation Matters—Environmental and Land Use Regulations.”
These laws and regulations have imposed, and proposed laws and regulations
could impose in the future, additional costs on the operation of our power
plants. We have made and will continue to make significant capital and other
expenditures to comply with these and other environmental laws and regulations.
Changes in, or new, environmental restrictions may force us to incur
significant expenses or that may exceed our estimates. There can be no
assurance that we would be able to recover all or any increased environmental
costs from our customers or that our business, financial condition or results
of operations would not be materially and 


 63 






adversely
affected by such expenditures or any changes in domestic or foreign
environmental laws and regulations.

We and our affiliates are subject to material
litigation and regulatory proceedings.

We and our affiliates are
parties to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. Investors should
review the descriptions of such matters contained in this annual report, as
well as the other periodic reports that we file in the future with the SEC. There
can be no assurances that the outcome of such matters will not have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial position.

The SEC is conducting an informal inquiry relating to our
restatements.

The Company has been
cooperating with an informal inquiry by the SEC Staff concerning the Company’s
restatements and related matters, and has been providing information and
documents to the SEC Staff on a voluntary basis. Because the Company is unable
to predict the outcome of this inquiry, the SEC Staff may disagree with the
manner in which the Company has accounted for and reported the financial impact
of the adjustments to previously filed financial statements and there may be a
risk that the inquiry by the SEC could lead to circumstances in which the
Company may have to further restate previously filed financial statements, amend
prior filings or take other actions not currently contemplated.

ITEM 1B