ITEM 1A. RISK
    FACTORS.


 



    Risk
    Factors


 


    We face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends
    on our ability to identify, prioritize and appropriately manage
    our enterprise risk exposures. Readers should carefully consider
    each of the following risks and all of the other information set
    forth in this
    Form 10-K.
    These risks and other factors may affect forward-looking
    statements, including those in this document or made by the
    Company elsewhere, such as in earnings release webcasts,
    investor conference presentations or press releases. The risks
    and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones
    facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not
    presently known to us or that we currently believe to be
    immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the
    following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events,
    there could be a material impact on the Company.


 



    We operate in an
    industry that is subject to ongoing changes.


 


    We operate in a competitive environment and in an industry that
    is subject to ongoing changes from market pressures brought
    about by customer demands, legislative reform, marketing
    practices and changes to health care and health insurance
    delivery. These factors require us to anticipate market trends
    and make changes to differentiate our products and services from
    those of our competitors. We also face the potential of
    competition from existing or new companies that have not
    historically been in the supplemental health insurance industry.
    Failure to anticipate market trends
    and/or to
    differentiate our products and services can affect our ability
    to retain or grow profitable lines of business.


 



    Our concentration
    of business in Japan poses risks to our operations.


 


    Our operations in Japan accounted for 71%, 72%, and 74% of our
    total revenues for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, and 82%
    of our total assets at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. As
    a result, weakness in Japan’s economy could adversely
    affect our business. The weak economy in Japan that emerged in
    the early 1990s resulted in a challenging marketing environment
    for Aflac Japan, with declining available investment yields for
    new investments and decreased consumer confidence. Although the
    Japanese economy has been growing in recent years, the ability
    to sustain such expansion remains uncertain.


 



    Japanese currency
    translation risk could materially impact reported operating
    results.


 


    Due to the size of Aflac Japan, where our functional currency is
    the Japanese yen, fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate
    can have a significant effect on our reported financial position
    and results of operations. In periods when the yen weakens,
    translating yen into dollars causes fewer dollars to be
    reported. When the yen strengthens, translating yen into dollars
    causes more dollars to be reported.


 


    Aflac Japan’s premiums and most of its investment income
    are received in yen. Claims and expenses are paid in yen, and we
    primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support
    yen-denominated policy liabilities. These and other
    yen-denominated financial statement items are translated into
    dollars for financial reporting purposes. However, it is
    important to distinguish between translating and converting
    foreign currency. Except for a limited number of transactions,
    we do not



    
    I-16



 





Table of Contents




    actually convert yen into dollars. As a result, we view foreign
    currency translation as a financial reporting issue for Aflac
    and not an economic event to our Company or shareholders.


 



    General market
    conditions affect investments and investment income.


 


    We have substantial investment portfolios that support our
    policy liabilities. Low levels of interest rates on investments,
    such as those experienced in the United States and Japan during
    recent years, have negatively impacted the level of investment
    income earned by the Company. Slower investment income growth
    will occur if a low-interest-rate environment persists.


 


    Financial market conditions can also affect our realized and
    unrealized investment gains or losses. During periods of rising
    interest rates, the fair values of our investments will decline.
    Conversely, during periods of falling interest rates, the fair
    values of our investments will rise. However, should significant
    amounts of unrealized gains/losses occur because of changes in
    market yields, we would not expect to realize significant gains
    or losses due to our ability and intent to hold the securities
    to maturity or recovery of value.


 



    Availability of
    acceptable yen-denominated investments could adversely affect
    our profits.


 


    We attempt to match the duration of our assets with the duration
    of our liabilities. At December 31, 2007, the average
    duration of Aflac Japan’s policy liabilities was
    approximately 14 years and the average duration of its
    yen-denominated debt securities was approximately 13 years.
    When our debt securities mature, there is a risk that the
    proceeds will be reinvested at a yield below that of the
    interest required for the accretion of policy liabilities. If
    this occurs, Aflac Japan’s business would be adversely
    affected.


 



    Concentration of
    our investment portfolios in any particular sector of the
    economy may have an adverse effect on our financial position or
    results of operations.


 


    The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular
    industry, group of related industries or geographic sector could
    have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and,
    consequently, on our results of operations and financial
    position. Events or developments that have a negative impact on
    any particular industry, group of related industries or
    geographic sector may have a greater adverse effect on the
    investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are
    concentrated rather than diversified.


 



    If future policy
    benefits, claims or expenses exceed those anticipated in
    establishing premiums and reserves, our financial results would
    be adversely affected.


 


    We establish and carry, as a liability, reserves based on
    estimates of how much will be required to pay for future
    benefits and claims. We calculate these reserves using various
    assumptions and estimates, including premiums we will receive
    over the assumed life of the policy; the timing, frequency and
    severity of the events covered by the insurance policy; and the
    investment returns on the assets we purchase with a portion of
    our net cash flow from operations. These assumptions and
    estimates are inherently uncertain. Accordingly, we cannot
    determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay
    for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits and claims or
    whether the assets supporting the policy liabilities will grow
    to the level we assume prior to payment of benefits or claims.
    If our actual experience is different from our assumptions or
    estimates, our reserves may prove inadequate. As a result, we
    would incur a charge to earnings in the period in which we
    determine such a shortfall exists. This estimation process is a
    critical accounting policy for the Company.



    
    I-17



 





Table of Contents



 



    Our operating
    subsidiaries provide cash flow to the Parent Company.


 


    Aflac Incorporated is a holding company and has no direct
    operations or no significant assets other than the stock of its
    subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our
    operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for
    dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to
    meet our financial obligations. There is no assurance that the
    earnings from, or other available assets of, our operating
    subsidiaries will be sufficient to make distributions to us to
    enable us to operate.


 



    Extensive
    regulation can impact profitability and growth.


 


    Aflac’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to complex laws
    and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number
    of governmental authorities, including state insurance
    regulators, the SEC, the NAIC, the FSA, the Ministry of Finance
    (MOF) in Japan, the U.S. Department of Justice, state
    attorneys general, and the Internal Revenue Service, each of
    which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently,
    we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular
    regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation
    of a legal or regulatory issue may not result in compliance with
    another regulator’s or enforcement authority’s
    interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance
    is judged in hindsight. There is also a risk that any particular
    regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation
    of a legal or regulatory issue may change over time to our
    detriment. In addition, changes in the overall legal or
    regulatory environment may, even absent any particular
    regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation
    of an issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the
    actions we need to take from a legal or regulatory risk
    management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our
    practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow or
    otherwise negatively impact the profitability of our business.


 


    The primary purpose of insurance company regulation supervision
    is the protection of insurance policyholders, rather than
    investors. The extent of regulation varies, but generally is
    governed by state statutes in the United States and by the FSA
    and the MOF in Japan. These systems of supervision and
    regulation cover, among other things:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    standards of establishing and setting premium rates and the
    approval thereof








     
        • 

    
    standards of minimum capital requirements and solvency margins,
    including risk-based capital measures








     
        • 

    
    restrictions on, limitations on and required approval of certain
    transactions between our insurance subsidiaries and their
    affiliates, including management fee arrangements








     
        • 

    
    restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of
    investments








     
        • 

    
    restrictions on the types of terms and conditions that we can
    include in the insurance policies offered by our primary
    insurance operations








     
        • 

    
    limitations on the amount of dividends that insurance
    subsidiaries can pay or foreign profits that can be repatriated








     
        • 

    
    the existence and licensing status of the Company under
    circumstances where it is not writing new or renewal business








     
        • 

    
    certain required methods of accounting








     
        • 

    
    reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes






    
    I-18



 





Table of Contents








    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    assignment of residual market business and potential assessments
    for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of
    covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired,
    insolvent or failed insurance companies








     
        • 

    
    administrative practices requirements








     
        • 

    
    imposition of fines and other sanctions





 



    Sales of our
    products and services are dependent on our ability to attract,
    retain and support a network of qualified sales
    associates.


 


    Our sales could be adversely affected if our sales networks
    deteriorate or if we do not adequately provide support, training
    and education for our existing network. Competition exists for
    sales associates with demonstrated ability. We compete with
    other insurers and financial institutions primarily on the basis
    of our products, compensation, support services and financial
    rating. An inability to attract and retain qualified sales
    associates could have a material adverse effect on sales and our
    results of operations and financial condition. Our sales
    associates are independent contractors and may sell products of
    our competitors. If our competitors offer products that are more
    attractive than ours, or pay higher commissions than we do,
    these sales associates may concentrate their efforts on selling
    our competitors’ products instead of ours.


 



    Success of our
    business depends in part on effective information technology
    systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements
    in technology; certain significant multiyear strategic
    information technology projects are currently in
    process.


 


    Our business depends in large part on our technology systems for
    interacting with employers, policyholders and sales associates,
    and our business strategy involves providing customers with
    easy-to-use products to meet their needs. Some of our
    information technology systems and software are older,
    legacy-type systems that are less efficient and require an
    ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain or
    upgrade to current standards (including adequate business
    continuity procedures). While we are in a continual state of
    upgrading and enhancing Aflac business systems, changes are
    always challenging in a complex integrated environment. Aflac
    uses proven techniques, controls and standards to minimize the
    risk associated with a changing technical environment. We are
    currently developing new systems to keep pace with continuing
    changes in information processing technology, evolving industry
    and regulatory standards, and customer demands. Our success is
    dependent in large part on maintaining or improving the
    effectiveness of existing systems and continuing to develop and
    enhance information systems that support our business processes
    in a cost-efficient manner.


 



    Changes in
    accounting standards issued by the FASB or other
    standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial
    statements.


 


    Our financial statements are subject to the application of
    generally accepted accounting principles in both the United
    States and Japan, which are periodically revised
    and/or
    expanded. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised
    accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies,
    including the FASB. It is possible that future accounting
    standards we are required to adopt could change the current
    accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial
    statements and that such changes could have a material adverse
    effect on our results and financial condition.



    
    I-19



 





Table of Contents



 



    Any decrease in
    our financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on our
    competitive position.


 


    Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing
    the competitive position of insurance companies and generally
    have an effect on an insurance company’s business. On an
    ongoing basis, rating agencies review the financial performance
    and condition of insurers and could downgrade or change the
    outlook on an insurer’s ratings due to, for example, a
    change in an insurer’s statutory capital; a change in a
    rating agency’s determination of the amount of
    risk-adjusted capital required to maintain a particular rating;
    an increase in the perceived risk of an insurer’s
    investment portfolio; a reduced confidence in management; or
    other considerations that may or may not be under the
    insurer’s control. Because all of our ratings are subject
    to continual review, the retention of these ratings cannot be
    assured. A multilevel downgrade in any of these ratings could
    have a material adverse effect on agent recruiting and
    retention, sales, competitiveness, and the marketability of our
    products impacting our liquidity, operating results and
    financial condition.


 



    We face risks
    related to litigation.


 


    We are a defendant in various lawsuits considered to be in the
    normal course of business. Members of our senior legal and
    financial management teams review litigation on a quarterly and
    annual basis. The final results of any litigation cannot be
    predicted with certainty. Although some of this litigation is
    pending in states where large punitive damages, bearing little
    relation to the actual damages sustained by plaintiffs, have
    been awarded in recent years, we believe the outcome of pending
    litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our
    financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
    However, litigation could adversely affect us because of the
    costs of defending these cases, costs of settlement or judgments
    against us or because of changes in our operations that could
    result from litigation.


 



    Managing key
    executive succession is critical to our success.


 


    We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for
    succession of our senior management and other key executives.
    While we have succession plans and employment arrangements with
    certain key executives, these do not guarantee that the services
    of these executives will be available to us.


 



    We also face
    other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of
    operations or financial condition, which include:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    any requirement to restate financial results in the event of
    inappropriate application of accounting principles








     
        • 

    
    any event that could damage our reputation








     
        • 

    
    failure of our processes to prevent and detect unethical conduct
    of employees








     
        • 

    
    a significant failure of internal controls over financial
    reporting








     
        • 

    
    failure of our prevention and control systems related to
    employee compliance with internal policies and regulatory
    requirements








     
        • 

    
    failure of corporate governance policies and procedures






    
    I-20



 





Table of Contents



 



    ITEM 1B