ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.



     We face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify,
prioritize and appropriately manage our enterprise risk exposures. Readers should carefully
consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Form 10-K.
These risks and other factors may affect forward-looking statements, including those in this
document or made by the Company elsewhere, such as in earnings release webcasts, investor
conference presentations or press releases. The risks and uncertainties described herein may not be
the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or
that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the
following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, there could be a material impact on
the Company.

Difficult conditions in global capital markets and the economy generally may have a material
adverse effect on our investments, capital position, revenue,
profitability and liquidity and harm our
business, and these conditions may not improve in the near future.



     Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets
and the economy generally, in the United States, Japan and elsewhere. As widely reported,
financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia experienced extreme disruption during the
latter part of 2008. Concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market,
a declining real estate market in the United States, energy costs and geopolitical issues, among
other factors, have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy
and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile commodity prices, declining
business and consumer confidence, increased unemployment, and the impact of the economy on
businesses, in particular, have precipitated an economic slowdown and fears of a sustained
recession.


     In addition, the fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility, which
has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions and increased the risk that issuers, or
guarantors, of fixed maturity securities will default on principal and interest payments.
Initially, the effects were focused on the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities
market. However, this volatility has since spread, negatively impacting a broad range of mortgage-
and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, the U.S. and international credit and interbank
money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and
sectors. As a result, the market for fixed income securities has experienced decreased liquidity,
increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default.
Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and trade. Domestic and international
equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil, with financial
institutions being particularly affected. These factors and the continuing market disruption may
have an adverse effect on our capital position, in part because we hold a significant amount of
fixed maturity and perpetual securities, including a significant portion issued by banks and
financial institutions, in our investment portfolio. Our revenues may decline in such circumstances
and our profit margins may erode.



     
We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, dividends on our
common stock, interest on our debt and liabilities. For a further
description of our liquidity needs, including maturing indebtedness,
see Item 7 of this Form 10-K—Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Capital Resources and Liquidity. In the event our
current resources do not meet our needs, we may need to seek
additional financing. The availability of additional financing will
depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general
availability of credit to the financial services industry and our
credit ratings, as well as the possibility that lenders or debt
investors may develop a negative perception of us if we incur large
investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases
due to a market downturn or there are further adverse economic trends
in the United States or Japan. Similarly, our access to funds may be
impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative
actions against us.


     Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility
and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment
and, indirectly, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn
characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business
investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for financial and insurance products could be
adversely affected. This adverse effect could be particularly significant for companies such as ours that distribute supplemental, discretionary insurance products primarily
through the worksite in the event that economic conditions result in a decrease in the number of new hires.
Adverse changes in the economy could potentially lead our customers to be less inclined to purchase
supplemental insurance


18




Table of Contents


coverage or to decide to cancel or modify existing insurance coverage, which could adversely
affect our premium revenue, results of operations and financial condition. We are unable to
predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in financial markets and
adverse economic conditions in the United States, Japan and other countries, which may have an
adverse effect on us, in part because we are dependent upon customer behavior and spending. In
addition, adverse conditions in the financial sector could result in lower sales through our bank
distribution channel, as account executives refocus their discussions with customers toward the
bank’s core business and away from supplemental insurance products in times of economic stress.


The effect that governmental actions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will have
on such markets generally or on us is difficult to determine at this time.



     In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and
going concern about financial institutions’  ongoing viability, numerous regulatory and governmental
actions have been taken or proposed. Within the United States, the Federal Reserve has taken
action through reduced federal funds rates and the expansion of acceptable collateral for its loans
to provide additional liquidity. Numerous financial institutions have received capital both in the
form of emergency loans and direct Treasury equity investments. In addition, on February 13, 2009,
the U.S. Congress passed a $787 billion “economic stimulus” plan. Within the United Kingdom and
Euro-zone, similar actions including interest rate cuts and capital injections into financial
institutions have been undertaken, including certain institutions that are obligors of the
perpetual securities in our investment portfolio. 
     An additional regulatory concern involving
residential mortgage-backed securities is “cram-down legislation” currently under consideration in
the U.S. Congress. If passed, this legislation would reallocate losses from defaults of the
underlying residential mortgages across all tranches of the security, effectively negating the
contractual terms of the security. We have bought only the more senior tranches, which means,
under the contractual terms of the security, any losses would first
be absorbed by the junior
tranches before our security would experience a loss. Should this legislation become law, we have
$395 million of securities that would be put at greater risk for loss and would likely be
downgraded to below investment grade by one or more rating agencies.


     There can be no assurance as to the effect that any such governmental actions will have on the
financial markets generally or on our competitive position, business and financial condition in
particular.

Defaults, downgrades, widening credit spreads or other events impairing the value of the fixed
maturity securities and perpetual securities in our investment portfolio may reduce our earnings.



     We are subject to the risk that the issuers, guarantors, or counterparties of fixed maturity
securities and perpetual securities we own may default on principal, interest and other payments
they owe us. We are also subject to the risk that the underlying collateral within loan-backed
securities, including collateralized debt obligations and mortgage-backed securities, may default
on principal and interest payments, causing an adverse change in cash flows from our investment
portfolio. The current economic downturn is having a negative effect on the financial condition of
many debt and perpetual security issuers. These factors
are affecting
the ability of debt issuers to repay or refinance their maturing obligations and the interest rate
levels at which those refinancings can occur. As a result of the current economic downturn and the
factors just noted, many debt issuers are facing significant liquidity pressures. These events
have reduced the current value of the fixed maturities and perpetual securities we own. In addition, the credit
rating agencies have been reviewing and modifying their rating criteria
for perpetual securities. As a result, many of these securities have
been downgraded and may experience further downgrades. While we
are not currently required to recognize losses on these securities in light of our ability and
intent to hold them until recovery, despite their decline in value, we may in the future be required
to do so. If we determine to reposition


19




Table of Contents



or realign portions of our investment portfolio
so as not to hold certain securities in an
unrealized loss position to recovery, we will incur a charge against net income for
the unrealized loss in the period that the decision was made not to hold the security to recovery.



     In addition to our credit exposure to various obligors and counterparties, we are also exposed
to credit spreads, primarily relating to market price and cash flow variability associated with
changes in credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads will increase the net unrealized loss
position of our fixed maturity investment portfolio and if issuer credit spreads increase
significantly or for an extended period of time, would likely result in higher other-than-temporary
impairment (OTTI) charges. Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated
with new purchases of fixed maturity securities. In addition, market volatility has made it
difficult to value certain of our securities, such as our perpetual securities, and our investments
in collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), qualifying special purpose entities and variable
interest entities, as trading of such securities has become less frequent. As such, our valuations
of such securities may include assumptions or estimates that may have
significant period-to-period
changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition. Credit spreads on both corporate and structured securities widened during 2008,
resulting in continuing depressed pricing. Ongoing challenges include continued weakness in the
U.S. real estate market and increased mortgage delinquencies, investor anxiety over the U.S. and
global economy, rating agency downgrades of various structured products and financial issuers,
unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and monoline insurance companies,
deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge funds, and a serious dislocation in the interbank
market.


     We have entered into interest-rate and cross-currency swaps in order
to hedge interest rate and currency exposure associated with our 20
billion yen variable interest rate Uridashi notes and $450 million
senior notes. While the fair values of these swaps reflect the
amounts that we would receive or pay upon a termination, an
insolvency of the related counterparty could result in a loss of all
or a portion of this value.

     For more information regarding credit risk, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk” in this Form 10-K.

The impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.



     We have exposure to and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial
services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other
institutions. Additionally, our highest concentration in our investment portfolio is in banks and
financial institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of
default of the obligor or the counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our
credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be liquidated at prices
sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan. The value of our investment portfolio was
negatively affected by the downgrades of certain banks and financial institutions and CDO
investments during 2008. Any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets may
materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. We have agreements with
various financial institutions for the distribution of our insurance products. For example, at
December 31, 2008, we had agreements with 242 banks to market Aflac’s products in Japan. In
addition, in 2008, Dai-ichi Mutual Life sold nearly 190,000 of our cancer policies under a
strategic alliance that we have with Dai-ichi. Any material adverse effect on these or other
financial institutions could also have an adverse effect on our sales.

We are subject to certain risks as a result of our investments in hybrid securities.



     We maintain investments in subordinated financial instruments, or so-called “hybrid
securities,” which totaled $18.5 billion, or 26.5%, of our total
debt and perpetual securities, as of December 31, 2008. These investments include Lower Tier II, Upper Tier
II, and Tier I investments. The
Lower Tier II securities are debt instruments with fixed maturities. Included in the holdings of
Upper Tier II and Tier I investments are $9.1 billion of perpetual securities, which have no stated
maturity. Our holdings of perpetual securities are in the following geographic areas: Europe
(64.6%); the United Kingdom (20.1%); Japan (11.8%); and Australia (3.5%).


20




Table of Contents



     Perpetual securities have characteristics of both debt and equity investments. The securities
have stated interest coupons that were fixed at their time of issuance and subsequently change to a
floating, short-term rate of interest of 125 to more than 300 basis points above a pre-determined
market index, generally by the 25th year after issuance. While we generally believe that this
interest step-up has the effect of creating an economic maturity date of the perpetual securities,
no assurances can be given that the issuers of these securities will repay the principal at the
time any interest step-up becomes effective.


     Perpetual securities typically provide that the issuer is able to defer payment of interest on
the securities for up to five years. The Upper Tier II securities that we own have cumulative
deferrable payment provisions, however the Tier I securities that we own do not have similar
provisions. No assurance can be given that the issuers of these securities will not defer making
interest payments.


     In addition to the usual credit risks of a debt instrument, our perpetual security holdings
are subject to the risk of nationalization of their issuers. In the United Kingdom and Ireland,
three banks have been nationalized in recent weeks. As an institution is nationalized, there is a
risk that the government involved will not honor all of the obligations of the nationalized
institutions.


     There is also a risk that the accounting for these perpetual securities could change in a
manner that would have an adverse impact on the reporting for these
securities. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is
currently reviewing the impairment model to be applied to this type
of security. At the date of filing this Form 10-K, the
SEC does not object to the use of a debt impairment model for impairment recognition. The debt
impairment model allows the holder to consider whether or not interest and principal payments will
be received in accordance with contractual terms and the holder’s intent and ability to hold the
perpetual security until there is a recovery in value. The equity
impairment model, by contrast, looks at the
length of time a security’s market value has been below its cost basis and the percentage decline
to determine whether an impairment should be recorded, without consideration to the holder’s intent
and ability to hold the security until recovery in value. If the FASB should decide that the
appropriate model for determining impairments is the equity model, we would be required to
recognize some portion of the unrealized losses now reported directly through equity as a charge
against net income. Although this change would not affect total shareholders’
equity as the unrealized loss is already recorded in
shareholders’ equity, it would reduce net income in the period
the change occurred and in future periods. Statutory accounting
principles account for these securities using the debt model. Additionally, these securities are
carried at amortized cost for statutory reporting purposes. Should the statutory accounting
requirements change regarding the method of recognizing impairments or the values at which the
securities should be carried in the financial statements, it could adversely affect our statutory
capital, depending upon the changes adopted. To date in 2009, there
has been a continued deterioration in the global markets,
particularly in the market values of perpetual securities in general.

The valuation of our investments includes methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are
subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may
adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.



     The vast majority of our financial instruments are subject to the classification provisions of
SFAS 157, which specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on observable or unobservable
inputs to valuation, relate to our investment securities classified as securities available for
sale in our investment portfolio, which comprised $43.1 billion (63%) of our total cash and
invested assets at December 31, 2008. In accordance with SFAS 157, we have categorized these
securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective
valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active
markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1), the next priority to quoted prices in
markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly, including
quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities or in markets that are not active and other inputs
that can be derived principally from or corroborated by


21




Table of Contents


observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities (Level 2)
and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs supported by little or no market activity and that
reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would
use in pricing the asset or liability (Level 3). An asset or liability’s classification within the
fair value hierarchy is based of the lowest level of significant input to its valuation.



     At December 31, 2008, approximately 24%, 69% and 7% of these securities represented Level 1,
Level 2 and Level 3 securities, respectively. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to
value and trade. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or
high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value
certain of the securities in our investment portfolio, if trading becomes less frequent and/or
market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets
with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In
such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management
judgment. In addition, prices provided by independent pricing services and independent broker
quotes can vary widely even for the same security.


     As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require
greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more
sophisticated, thereby resulting in values which may be greater or less than the value at which the
investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity
market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our
consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary
significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations
or financial condition.


     See Notes 1, 3, and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

The determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is subjective and could
materially impact our results of operations or financial position.



     The determination of the amount of impairments is based upon our periodic evaluation and
assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective securities. Such evaluations
and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management
updates its evaluations regularly and reflects impairments in its income statement as such
evaluations are revised. There can, however, be no assurance that our management has accurately
assessed the level of impairments reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional
impairments may need to be taken in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future
impairments.


     An investment in a fixed maturity or a perpetual security is impaired if its fair value falls
below its book value. We regularly review our entire investment portfolio for declines in value. If
we believe that a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, no impairment is
taken. However, for our fixed maturity and perpetual securities reported in the available-for-sale
portfolio, we report the investments at market value in the statement of financial condition and
record the decline or appreciation as an unrealized loss or gain in accumulated other comprehensive
income. If we believe the decline is “other-than-temporary,” we write down the carrying value of
the investment and record a realized loss in our consolidated statements of income. Management’s
assessment of a decline in value includes current judgment as to the financial position and future
prospects of the entity that issued the investment security. In the course of our credit review
process, we may determine that it is unlikely that we will recover our investment in an issuer due
to factors specific to an individual issuer, as opposed to general changes in global credit
spreads. In this event, we consider such a decline in the investment’s fair value, to the extent
below the investment’s cost or amortized cost, to be an


22




Table of Contents


other-than-temporary impairment of the investment and write the investment down to its
recoverable value which is normally its fair value at the time it is written down. The
determination of whether an impairment is other than temporary is subjective and involves the
considerable judgment and the consideration of various factors and circumstances. The more
significant factors include:







     
    •
     
    the severity of the decline in fair value



     

     
    •
     
    the length of time the fair value is below cost



     

     
    •
     
    issuer financial condition, including profitability and cash flows



     

     
    •
     
    credit status of the issuer



     

     
    •
     
    the issuer’s specific and general competitive environment



     

     
    •
     
    published reports



     

     
    •
     
    general economic environment



     

     
    •
     
    regulatory and legislative environment



     

     
    •
     
    other factors as may become available from time to time





     Another factor we consider in determining whether a decline in value is other than temporary
is our ability and intent to hold the investment until a recovery of its fair value. We perform
ongoing analyses of our liquidity needs, which include cash flow testing of our policy
liabilities, debt maturities, projected dividend payments and other cash flow and liquidity needs.
Our cash flows from operations have been substantial over the last three years, growing from $4.4
billion in 2006 to $4.7 billion in 2007 and to $5.0 billion in 2008.

Gross unrealized losses may be realized or result in future impairments.



     Our gross
unrealized losses on fixed maturity and perpetual securities at December 31, 2008
were $4.8 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, pretax  and the portion of gross
unrealized losses for securities with a fair value of 80% or less of their amortized costs was
approximately $3.1 billion pretax at such date relating to fixed
maturity securities and $.8 billion
relating to perpetual securities. The realization of losses or impairments may have a material
adverse impact on our results of operation and financial position.

Lack of availability of acceptable yen-denominated investments could adversely affect our profits.



     We attempt to match the duration of our assets with the duration of our liabilities. At
December 31, 2008, the average duration of Aflac Japan’s policy liabilities was approximately 14
years and the average duration of its yen-denominated debt and perpetual securities was
approximately 12 years. The duration of the perpetual securities is based upon their economic
maturity dates. Since the securities have no fixed maturity date, there is no assurance that the
securities will be repaid on the dates assumed. When the principal of our debt securities or
perpetual securities is repaid, there is a risk that the proceeds will be reinvested at a yield
below that of the interest required for the accretion of policy liabilities. Our net investment
income has been negatively affected by the low level of investment yields in Japan in the last
three years. Although the Bank of Japan ended its zero-interest-rate policy in 2006, market yields
on long-duration fixed maturity securities which we purchase
primarily in Japan have not increased measurably
since then.


23




Table of Contents


The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular sector of the economy may have an
adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.



     The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related
industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and,
consequently, on our results of operations and financial position. Events or developments that have
a negative impact on any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic sector may
have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are
concentrated rather than diversified. At December 31, 2008,
approximately 41%, of our total
portfolio of debt and perpetual securities is in the banks and financial institutions sector.

Our concentration of business in Japan poses risks to our operations.



     Our operations in Japan accounted for 72%, 71% and 72% of our total revenues for 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively. The Japanese operations accounted for 87% of our total assets at December
31, 2008, compared with 82% at December 31, 2007. The Bank of Japan’s January 2009 Monthly Report
of Recent Economic and Financial Developments stated that Japan’s economic conditions have been
deteriorating significantly. Private consumption has weakened as a result of decreased household
income and increased unemployment. Exports have decreased due to a slowdown in overseas economies
and the strengthening of the yen. The report projected that Japan’s economic conditions are
expected to continue to deteriorate. A broad economic stimulus plan has been proposed in Japan, in
part to increase public spending. We believe that the outlook for the Japanese economy is
uncertain. Continued weakness in Japan’s economy could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition.

We operate in an industry that is subject to ongoing changes.



     We operate in a competitive environment and in an industry that is subject to ongoing changes
from market pressures brought about by customer demands, legislative reform, marketing practices
and changes to health care and health insurance delivery. These factors require us to anticipate
market trends and make changes to differentiate our products and services from those of our
competitors. We also face the potential of competition from existing or new companies in the United
States and Japan that have not historically been active in the supplemental health insurance
industry. Failure to anticipate market trends and/or to differentiate our products and services can
affect our ability to retain or grow profitable lines of business.

We are exposed to significant financial and capital
markets risk which may adversely affect our
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net investment income can vary
from period to period.



     We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in foreign
currency, interest rates, real estate markets, market volatility,
the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in our
investment portfolio and other factors outside our control.


     Foreign Currency Risk



     Due to the size of Aflac Japan, where our functional currency is the Japanese yen,
fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported
financial position and results of operations. Aflac Japan’s premiums and most of its investment
income are received in yen. Claims and expenses are paid in yen, and we primarily purchase
yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. These and other
yen-denominated financial statement items are,


24




Table of Contents


however, translated into dollars for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, fluctuations
in the yen/dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position
and results of operations. In periods when the yen weakens, translating yen into dollars causes
fewer dollars to be reported. When the yen strengthens, translating yen into dollars causes more
dollars to be reported. Any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in
accumulated other comprehensive income. As a result, yen weakening has the effect of suppressing
current year results in relation to the prior year, while yen strengthening has the effect of
magnifying current year results in relation to the prior year. In addition, the weakening of the
yen relative to the dollar will generally adversely affect the value of our yen-denominated
investments in dollar terms. Foreign currency translation also impacts the computation of our
risk-based capital ratio because Aflac Japan is consolidated in our U.S. statutory filings due to
its status as a branch. Our required capital, as determined by the application of risk factors to
our assets and liabilities, is proportionately more sensitive to changes in the exchange rate than
our total adjusted capital. As a result, when the yen strengthens relative to the dollar, our
risk-based capital ratio is suppressed. We engage in certain foreign currency hedging activities
for the purpose of hedging the yen exposure to our net investment in our branch operations in
Japan. These hedging activities are limited in scope and we cannot provide assurance that these
activities will be effective or that counterparties to these activities will perform their
obligations.



     Additionally, we are exposed to economic currency risk when yen cash flows are converted into
dollars, resulting in an increase or decrease in our earnings when exchange gains or losses are
realized. This primarily occurs when we repatriate funds from Aflac Japan to Aflac U.S., which is
generally done on an annual basis. The exchange rates prevailing at the time of repatriation may
differ from the exchange rates prevailing at the time the yen profits were earned.


     Interest Rate Risk



     We have substantial investment portfolios that support our policy liabilities. Low levels of
interest rates on investments, such as those experienced in the United States and Japan during
recent years, have reduced the level of investment income earned by the Company. Slower investment
income growth will occur if a low-interest-rate environment persists. While we generally seek to
maintain a diversified portfolio of fixed-income investments that reflects the cash flow and
duration characteristics of the liabilities it supports, we may not be able to fully mitigate the
interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities.


     Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the ability to invest future cash
flows to support the interest rate assumption made at the time our products were priced and the
related reserving assumptions were established. A rise in interest rates would improve our ability
to earn higher rates of return on funds that we reinvest. Conversely, a decline in interest rates
would impair our ability to earn the returns assumed in the pricing and the reserving for our
products at the time they were sold and issued.


     We also have an exposure to interest rates related to the value of the substantial investment
portfolios that support our policy liabilities. A rise in interest rates would increase the net
unrealized loss position of our debt and perpetual securities. Conversely, a decline in interest
rates would decrease the net unrealized loss position of our debt and perpetual securities. While
we generally invest our assets to match the duration and cash flow characteristics of our policy
liabilities, and therefore would not expect to realize most of these gains or losses, our risk is
that unforeseen events or economic conditions, such as, changes in interest rates resulting from
governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and
other factors beyond our control, reduce the effectiveness of this strategy and either cause us to
dispose of some or all of these investments prior to their maturity, or cause the issuers of these
securities to default both of which would result in our having to recognize such gains or losses.


25




Table of Contents



     Significant, continued volatility, the strengthening or weakening of the yen against the
dollar, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads and defaults, market liquidity and
declines in equity prices, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows through realized losses,
impairments, and changes in unrealized positions.


     For more information regarding foreign currency and interest rate risk, see Item 7A.
“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this Form 10-K.

If future policy benefits, claims or expenses exceed those anticipated in establishing premiums and
reserves, our financial results would be adversely affected.



     We establish and carry, as a liability, reserves based on estimates of how much will be
required to pay for future benefits and claims. We calculate these reserves using various
assumptions and estimates, including premiums we will receive over the assumed life of the policy;
the timing, frequency and severity of the events covered by the insurance policy; and the
investment returns on the assets we purchase with a portion of our net cash flow from operations.
These assumptions and estimates are inherently uncertain. Accordingly, we cannot determine with
precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits
and claims or whether the assets supporting the policy liabilities will grow to the level we assume
prior to payment of benefits or claims. If our actual experience is different from our assumptions
or estimates, our reserves may prove inadequate. As a result, we would incur a charge to earnings
in the period in which we determine such a shortfall exists, which could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

As a holding company, the Parent Company depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer
funds to it to meet its debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends on its common
stock.



     The Parent Company is a holding company and has no direct operations or significant assets
other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our operating
subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds
necessary to meet our debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock.
Aflac is domiciled in Nebraska and is subject to insurance regulations that impose certain
limitations and restrictions on payments of dividends, management fees, loans and advances by Aflac
to the Parent Company. The Nebraska insurance statutes require prior approval for dividend
distributions that exceed the greater of the net gain from operations, which excludes net realized
investment gains, for the previous year determined under statutory accounting principles, or 10% of
statutory capital and surplus as of the previous year-end. In addition, the Nebraska insurance
department must approve service arrangements and other transactions within the affiliated group of
companies. In addition, Japan’s Financial Services Agency (FSA) may not allow profit repatriations
or other transfers from Aflac Japan if they would cause Aflac Japan to lack sufficient financial
strength for the protection of policyholders.


     The ability of Aflac to pay dividends or make other payments to the Parent Company could also
be constrained by our dependence on financial strength ratings from independent rating agencies.
Our ratings from these agencies depend to a large extent on Aflac’s capitalization level. Any
inability of Aflac to pay dividends or make other payments to the Parent Company could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance
that the earnings from, or other available assets of, our operating subsidiaries will be sufficient
to make distributions to us to enable us to operate.


26




Table of Contents



Extensive regulation can impact profitability and growth.



     Aflac’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to complex laws and regulations that are
administered and enforced by a number of governmental authorities, including state insurance
regulators, the SEC, the NAIC, the FSA and Ministry of Finance (MOF) in Japan, the U.S. Department
of Justice, state attorneys general, and the Internal Revenue Service, each of which exercises a
degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any
particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal or regulatory issue may
not result in compliance with another regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of the
same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. There is also a risk that any
particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal or regulatory issue may
change over time to our detriment. In addition, changes in the overall legal or regulatory
environment may, even absent any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation
of an issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a
legal or regulatory risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that
may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow or otherwise negatively impact the profitability of
our business.


     The primary purpose of insurance company regulatory supervision is the protection of insurance
policyholders, rather than investors. The extent of regulation varies, but generally is governed by
state statutes in the United States and by the FSA and the MOF in Japan. These systems of
supervision and regulation cover, among other things:






     
    •
     
    standards of establishing and setting premium rates and the approval thereof



     

     
    •
     
    standards of minimum capital requirements and solvency margins, including risk-based
capital measures



     

     
    •
     
    restrictions on, limitations on and required approval of certain transactions between
our insurance subsidiaries and their affiliates, including management fee arrangements



     

     
    •
     
    restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments



     

     
    •
     
    restrictions on the types of terms and conditions that we can include in the insurance
policies offered by our primary insurance operations



     

     
    •
     
    limitations on the amount of dividends that insurance subsidiaries can pay or foreign
profits that can be repatriated



     

     
    •
     
    the existence and licensing status of a company under circumstances where it is not
writing new or renewal business



     

     
    •
     
    certain required methods of accounting



     

     
    •
     
    reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes



     

     
    •
     
    assignment of residual market business and potential assessments for the provision of
funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by
impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies



     

     
    •
     
    administrative practices requirements



     

     
    •
     
    imposition of fines and other sanctions





     State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations
applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
interpretations thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operation.


     Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance.
However, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and


27




Table of Contents



adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include financial services regulation,
securities regulation, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In
addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed. These
proposals include the National Insurance Act of 2007, which would permit an optional federal
charter for insurers. In view of recent events involving certain financial institutions, it is
possible that the U.S. federal government will heighten its oversight of insurers, possibly through
a federal system of insurance regulation. We cannot predict whether this or other proposals will be
adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our
business, financial condition or results of operations.



     Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and
changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance
and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.

Sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and support a
network of qualified sales associates.



     Our sales could be adversely affected if our sales networks deteriorate or if we do not
adequately provide support, training and education for our existing network. Competition exists for
sales associates with demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers and financial
institutions primarily on the basis of our products, compensation, support services and financial
rating. An inability to attract and retain qualified sales associates could have a material adverse
effect on sales and our results of operations and financial condition. Our sales associates are
independent contractors and may sell products of our competitors. If our competitors offer products
that are more attractive than ours, or pay higher commissions than we do, these sales associates
may concentrate their efforts on selling our competitors’ products instead of ours.

The success of our business depends in part on effective information technology systems and on
continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology; certain significant multiyear
strategic information technology projects are currently in process.



     Our business depends in large part on our technology systems for interacting with employers,
policyholders and sales associates, and our business strategy involves providing customers with
easy-to-use products to meet their needs. Some of our information technology systems and software
are older, legacy-type systems that are less efficient and require an ongoing commitment of
significant resources to maintain or upgrade to current standards (including adequate business
continuity procedures). While we are in a continual state of upgrading and enhancing Aflac business
systems, changes are always challenging in a complex integrated environment. Our success is
dependent in large part on maintaining or improving the effectiveness of existing systems and
continuing to develop and enhance information systems that support our business processes in a
cost-efficient manner.

Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) or other
standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.



     Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting
principles in both the United States and Japan, which are periodically revised and/or expanded.
Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued
by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB. It is possible that future accounting
standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to
our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations and financial condition.


28




Table of Contents



     In November 2008, the SEC issued a proposed “roadmap” which outlines milestones that, if
achieved, could lead to mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
for U.S. public companies starting in fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2014, or sooner
for some issuers. The FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) are in the midst
of a convergence project to align U.S. GAAP and IFRS as part of this anticipated transition, but
key components of IFRS regarding the insurance industry have yet to be clarified. We are monitoring
these developments closely. The adoption of IFRS could significantly alter the presentation of our
financial position and results of operations in our financial statements.

Any decrease in our financial strength or debt ratings may have an adverse effect on our
competitive position.



     Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of
insurance companies and generally have an effect on the business of insurance companies. On an
ongoing basis, Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs) review the financial
performance and condition of insurers and may downgrade or change the outlook on an insurer’s
ratings due to, for example, a change in an insurer’s statutory capital; a change in a rating
agency’s determination of the amount of risk-adjusted capital required to maintain a particular
rating; an increase in the perceived risk of an insurer’s investment portfolio; a reduced
confidence in management; or other considerations that may or may not be under the insurer’s
control. Aflac currently maintains a Fitch Ratings Ltd. (Fitch) financial strength rating of AA, a
Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) financial strength rating of Aa2 (Excellent), an A.M. Best
Company, Inc. (A.M. Best) financial strength rating of A+ (Superior) and a Standard & Poor’s (S&P)
financial strength rating of AA-.


     Because all of our ratings are subject to continual review, the retention of these ratings
cannot be assured. In January 2009, due to concerns about the continued deterioration in global
financial markets and our investment exposure to global financial institutions, S&P downgraded
Aflac’s financial strength rating one notch to AA- from AA.


     In addition to financial strength ratings, various NRSROs also publish debt ratings for us.
These ratings are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a
timely manner and are important factors in our ability to access liquidity in the debt markets.
Currently, our senior debt, Samurai notes and Uridashi notes are rated A+ by Fitch Ratings and A2
by Moody’s. In January 2009, S&P downgraded our debt rating one level to A- from A and all three
rating agencies have changed the ratings outlook on our debt securities from stable to negative.
Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
and results of operations in many ways, including adversely limiting our access to capital markets
and potentially increasing the cost of debt.


     On September 18, 2008, September 29, 2008, October 2, 2008 and October 10, 2008, A.M. Best,
Fitch, Moody’s and S&P, respectively, each revised its outlook for the U.S. life insurance sector
to negative from stable, citing, among other things, the significant deterioration and volatility
in the credit and equity markets, economic and political uncertainty, and the expected impact of
realized and unrealized investment losses on life insurers’ capital levels and profitability. On
January 12, 2009, S&P maintained its negative outlook on the U.S. life insurance sector.


     In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including in
the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the NRSROs will heighten the level of
scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, will increase the frequency and scope of their
reviews, will request additional information from the companies that they rate, including
additional information regarding


29




Table of Contents


the valuation of investment securities held, and may increase the capital and other
requirements employed in their models for maintenance of certain rating levels.



     A downgrade in any of these ratings could have a material adverse effect on agent recruiting
and retention, sales, competitiveness and the marketability of our products which could negatively
impact our liquidity, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, sales through the
bank channel could be adversely affected as a result of their reliance and sensitivity to ratings
levels.


     We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in
response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with
other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and
without any notice by any NRSRO.


If we fail to comply with restrictions on
patient privacy and information security, including
taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient
information maintain its confidentiality, our reputation and business operations could be
materially adversely affected.


     The collection, maintenance, use, disclosure and disposal of individually identifiable data by
our businesses are regulated at the international, federal and state levels. These laws and rules
are subject to change by legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation. Various state
laws address the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data to the extent they are
more restrictive than those contained in the privacy and security
provisions in the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA)
and in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996 (HIPAA). HIPAA also requires that we impose privacy and security requirements on our business
associates (as such term is defined in the HIPAA regulations).


     Even though we
provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with business
associates, we still have limited control over their actions and practices. Privacy and security
requirements regarding personally identifiable information are also imposed on us through controls
with our customers. In addition, despite the security measures we have in place to ensure
compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and
systems, and those of our third-party
providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses,
misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Congress and many
states are considering new privacy and security requirements that would apply to our business.
Compliance with new privacy and security laws, requirements, and new regulations may result in cost
increases due to necessary systems changes, new limitations or constraints on our business models,
the development of new administrative processes, and the effects of potential noncompliance by our
business associates. They also may impose further restrictions on our collection, disclosure and
use of patient identifiable data that are housed in one or more of our administrative databases.
Noncompliance with any privacy laws or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or
other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us or by
one of our vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of
operations, including: material fines and penalties; compensatory, special, punitive and statutory
damages; consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices; adverse actions against our
licenses to do business; and injunctive relief.

We face risks related to litigation.



     We are a defendant in various lawsuits considered to be in the normal course of business.
Members of our senior legal and financial management teams review litigation on a quarterly and
annual basis. The final results of any litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. Although some
of this litigation is pending in states where large punitive damages, bearing little relation to
the actual


30




Table of Contents



damages sustained by plaintiffs, have been awarded in recent years, we believe the outcome of
pending litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations, or cash flows. However, litigation could adversely affect us because of the costs of
defending these cases, costs of settlement or judgments against us or because of changes in our
operations that could result from litigation.


Managing key executive succession is critical to our success.



     We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for succession of our senior
management and other key executives. While we have succession plans and employment arrangements
with certain key executives, these cannot guarantee that the services of these executives will be
available to us and our operations could be adversely affected if they are not.

Any event, including one external to our operations, could damage our reputation.



     Because insurance products are intangible, we rely to a large extent on consumer trust in our
business. The perception of financial weakness could create doubt regarding our ability to honor
the commitments we have made to our policyholders. Maintaining our stature as a responsible
corporate citizen, which helps support the strength of our unique
brand, is critical to our
reputation and the failure or perceived failure to do so could
adversely affect us.

We also face other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or
financial condition, which include:







     
    •
     
    any requirement to restate financial results in the event of inappropriate application
of accounting principles



     

     
    •
     
    failure of our processes to prevent and detect unethical conduct of employees



     

     
    •
     
    a significant failure of internal controls over financial reporting



     

     
    •
     
    failure of our prevention and control systems related to employee compliance with
internal policies and regulatory requirements



     

     
    •
     
    failure of corporate governance policies and procedures






31







Table of Contents














ITEM 1B