ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify, prioritize and appropriately manage our enterprise risk exposures. Readers should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Form 10-K. These risks and other factors may affect forward-looking statements, including those in this document or made by the Company elsewhere, such as in earnings release webcasts, investor conference presentations or press releases. The risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, there could be a material impact on the Company.Difficult conditions in global capital markets and the economy could have a material adverse effect on our investments, capital position, revenue, profitability, and liquidity and harm our business. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the global economy generally, including in our two primary operating markets of the United States and Japan. Weak global financial markets impact the value of our existing investment portfolio, influence opportunities for new investments, and may contribute to generally weak economic fundamentals, which can have a negative impact on our operating activities. In recent years, global capital markets have been severely impacted by several major events. The financial crisis that began in the latter part of 2008 saw dramatic declines in investment values and weak economic conditions as the global financial system came under extreme pressure. Although U.S. markets began recovering in late 2009 and 2010, Europe continued to struggle under a severely weakened banking system and investor concerns with sovereign debt levels. Following a period of unprecedented intervention by governments and central banks, including the U.S. Federal Reserve and European Central Bank (ECB), financial conditions improved from the dire conditions of the global financial crisis, global recession, and European debt crisis. Recently, global markets have experienced materially higher levels of market volatility due to concerns including changes in the market’s perception of global growth, additional ECB intervention, uncertainty surrounding Japan’s continued recovery amidst assorted policy changes, significant declines in global commodity prices including oil, divergent monetary policies in the United States versus many other developed economies, and heightened concerns surrounding the Chinese economy.As we hold a significant amount of fixed maturity and perpetual securities issued by borrowers located in many different parts of the world, including a large portion issued by banks and financial institutions, sovereigns, and other corporate borrowers in the U.S. and Europe, our financial results are directly influenced by global financial markets. A retrenchment of the recent improvements in overall capital market health could adversely affect our financial condition, including our capital position and our overall profitability. Market volatility and recessionary pressures could result in significant realized or unrealized losses due to severe price declines driven by increases in interest rates or credit spreads, defaults in payment of principal or interest, or credit rating downgrades.Following the election of Shinzo Abe as Prime Minister of Japan in December 2012, the new administration adopted a new set of financial measures to stimulate the Japanese economy, most recently imposing negative interest rates on excess bank reserves. In a December 2014 snap-election, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) won a landslide victory, further strengthening Mr. Abe's ability to implement economic reform and address key policy challenges. The Japanese financial markets have reacted with even lower rates on Japanese Government bonds, large increases in Japanese equity market values, and a weakening of the yen relative to the U.S. dollar, a situation that remains largely intact today.Japan is the largest market for our products and we own substantial holdings in Japanese Government Bonds (JGBs). Government actions to stimulate the economy affect the value of our existing holdings, our reinvestment rate on new investments in JGBs or other yen denominated assets, and consumer behavior relative to our suite of products. The additional government debt from fiscal stimulus actions could contribute to a weakening of the Japan sovereign credit profile and result in further rating downgrades at the credit rating agencies. This could lead to additional volatility in Japanese capital and currency markets.Our investment portfolio owns sizeable credit positions in many other geographic areas of the world including the Middle East, Latin America, Asia, and other emerging markets. Deterioration in their underlying economies, sovereign credit worthiness, or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial position. We also own credit investments that result in exposure to commodity valuations, including oil, natural gas, gold, and other metals.  The recent 12significant declines in the prices of these commodities could result in credit deterioration of our holdings and significant credit losses due to depressed bond valuations, defaults in payment of principal or interest, or credit rating downgrades.Most of our investment portfolio holdings are income-producing bonds that provide a fixed level of income. Many of our investments were made at the relatively low level of interest rates prevailing the last several years. Any increase in the market yields of our holdings due to an increase in interest rates could create substantial unrealized losses in our portfolio, as discussed further in a separate risk factor in this section of the Form 10-K. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, dividends on our common stock, interest on our debt and liabilities. For a further description of our liquidity needs, including maturing indebtedness, see Item 7 of this Form 10-K - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity. In the event our current resources do not meet our needs, we may need to seek additional financing. Our access to additional funding will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit to the financial services industry and our credit rating. We have a credit facility agreement as a capital contingency plan with a syndicate of financial institutions that provides for borrowings in the amount of 55 billion yen. This agreement provides for borrowings in Japanese yen or the equivalent of Japanese yen in U.S. dollars on a revolving basis and will expire on the earlier of September 18, 2020, or the date the commitments are terminated pursuant to an event of default, as such term is defined in the credit agreement. As a part of our capital contingency plan, we entered into a committed reinsurance facility agreement on December 1, 2015 in the amount of approximately 110 billion yen. This reinsurance facility agreement is effective from December 1, 2015 until December 31, 2016. There are also additional commitment periods of a one-year duration each which are automatically extended unless notification is received from the reinsurer within 60 days prior to the expiration. The reinsurer can withdraw from the committed facility if Aflac‘s Standard and Poor's (S&P) rating drops below BBB-. As of December 31, 2015, we have not executed a reinsurance treaty under this committed reinsurance facility.Should investors become concerned with any of our investment holdings, including the concentration in JGBs, our access to market sources of funding could be negatively impacted. There is a possibility that lenders or debt investors may also become concerned if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn or there are further adverse economic trends in the United States or Japan, specifically, or generally in developed markets. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. See more information on recent rating actions later in this Risk Factors section.Broad economic factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, indirectly, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. This adverse effect could be particularly significant for companies such as ours that distribute supplemental, discretionary insurance products primarily through the worksite in the event that economic conditions result in a decrease in the number of new hires and total employees. Adverse changes in the economy could potentially lead our customers to be less inclined to purchase supplemental insurance coverage or to decide to cancel or modify existing insurance coverage, which could adversely affect our premium revenue, results of operations and financial condition. We are unable to predict the course of the current recoveries in global financial markets or the recurrence, duration or severity of disruptions in such markets.The effect that governmental actions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will have on such markets generally, or on us specifically, is difficult to determine at this time.In response to the severity of the global financial crisis, numerous regulatory and governmental actions were taken to address weakness in the banking system, volatility in capital market conditions, and to stimulate the global economy.  In the United States, this included aggressive expansionary monetary policy actions by the Federal Reserve, including conventional measures such as reducing the Federal Funds rate to near zero, and less conventional measures such as multiple rounds of quantitative easing. The result of the actions of the Federal Reserve was to keep interest rates, as measured by the U.S. Treasury curve and other relevant market rates, at very low levels for an extended period of time in an attempt to stimulate the economy. As the U.S. economy has continued to improve, the Federal Reserve has reduced the amount of monetary stimulus. The actions previously taken by the Federal Reserve, and the amounts involved, are unprecedented. As such, there exist considerable risks associated with the amount of monetary stimulus provided and its withdrawal. These risks could 13include heightened inflation, increased volatility of interest rates, significantly higher interest rates, and overall increased volatility in the fair value of investment securities. These factors could negatively impact our business by reducing the value of our existing portfolio, negatively impacting our opportunities for new investments as market volatility increases, increasing the risk of depressed bond valuations or defaults in our credit portfolio, increasing the costs to hedge certain dollar holdings into yen, and reducing the demand for our products should the broader economy be negatively impacted by withdrawal of monetary stimulus.The financial crisis also created new government regulation, including the Dodd-Frank Financial Regulatory Reform Bill for U.S. institutions. This significant legislation, intended to reduce risk of another crisis, contains multiple provisions that could impact our business as rules are finalized and implemented. This legislation could impact the value of our significant holdings in banks and other financial institutions and our ability to conduct financial and capital market transactions, negatively impact pricing and our general ability to conduct financial and capital market transactions, and affect the general competitiveness of the U.S. financial services industry. As the effects of the financial crisis continue to linger, other central banks around the world have followed the actions of the Federal Reserve and taken unprecedented actions. In the case of the ECB, multiple actions were taken to mitigate the European sovereign and banking crisis, and to stimulate the economies throughout the Eurozone. The Bank of Japan has undertaken monetary policy actions designed to stimulate the Japanese economy. These governmental interventions are still being deployed in the form of extremely low short-term interest rates and asset purchases, and thus may continue to support an environment of historically low or negative interest rates in the near to medium term. There can be no assurance as to the effect that these governmental actions, other governmental actions taken in the future, or the ceasing of these governmental actions will have on the financial markets generally, the economies in which we operate, our competitive position, or our business and financial condition.Defaults, downgrades, widening credit spreads or other events impairing the value of the fixed maturity securities and perpetual securities in our investment portfolio may reduce our earnings and capital position.We are subject to the risk that the issuers and/or guarantors of fixed maturity securities and perpetual securities we own may default on principal or interest. A significant portion of our portfolio represents an unsecured obligation of the issuer, including some that are subordinated to other debt in the issuer’s capital structure. In these cases, many factors can influence the overall creditworthiness of the issuer and ultimately its ability to service and repay our holdings. This can include changes in the global economy, the company's assets, strategy, or management, shifts in the dynamics of the industries in which they compete, their access to additional funding, and the overall health of the credit markets. Factors unique to our securities including contractual protections such as financial covenants or relative position in the issuer's capital structure also influence the value of our holdings.Most of our holdings carry a rating by one or more of the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs, or “rating agencies”). Any change in the rating agencies' approach to evaluating credit and assigning an opinion could negatively impact the fair value of our portfolio. We employ a team of credit analysts to monitor the creditworthiness of the issuers in our portfolio. Any credit-related declines in the fair value of positions held in our portfolio we believe are not temporary in nature will negatively impact our net income and capital position through impairment and other credit related losses, which would also affect our solvency ratios in the United States and Japan. For regulatory accounting purposes for Aflac Japan, there are certain requirements for realizing impairments that could be triggered by credit-related losses, which may be different from U.S. GAAP and statutory requirements, which could negatively impact Aflac Japan's earnings, and the corresponding repatriation and capital deployment.We are also subject to the risk that any collateral providing credit enhancement to our positions could deteriorate. These instruments may include senior secured first lien loans, such as bank loans and middle market loans, and loan-backed securities where the underlying loan or collateral notes may default on principal, interest, or other payments, causing an adverse change in cash flows to the positions held in our investment portfolio. Our portfolio includes holdings of perpetual securities. Most of these are issued by global banks and financial institutions. Following the financial crisis, rating agencies reviewed and, in most cases, modified the rating criteria for financial institutions. This has caused multiple downgrades of many bank and financial issuers, but perpetual securities have been more negatively impacted as their lower position in the capital structure represents relatively more risk than other more senior obligations of the issuer. Further downgrades or default of issuers of securities we own will have a negative impact on our portfolio and could reduce our earnings and capital.14We are exposed to sovereign credit risk through instruments issued directly by governments and government entities as well as banks and other institutions that rely in part on the strength of the underlying government for their credit quality. In addition to the United States and Japan, many governments, especially in Europe, have been subject to rating downgrades due to the need for fiscal and budgetary remediation and structural reforms, reduced economic activity, and investment needed to support banks or other systematically important entities. Additional downgrades or default of our sovereign issuers will have a negative impact on our portfolio and could reduce our earnings and capital.In addition to our exposure to the underlying fundamental credit strength of the issuers of our fixed maturity and perpetual securities and the underlying risk of default, we are also exposed to the general movement in credit market spreads. A widening of credit spreads could reduce the value of our existing portfolio, create unrealized losses on our investment portfolio, and reduce our adjusted capital position which is used in determining the Solvency Margin Ratio (SMR) in Japan. This could, however, increase the net investment income on new credit investments. Conversely, a tightening of credit spreads could increase the value of our existing portfolio and create unrealized gains on our investment portfolio. This could reduce the net investment income available to us on new credit investments. Increased market volatility also makes it difficult to value certain of our investment holdings (see the Critical Accounting Estimates section in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, of this Form 10-K). As a result of the large decline in oil prices, there has been heightened attention to certain investments in the various energy sectors following a large increase in market volatility. Our portfolio includes holdings diversified across multiple sub-sectors of the oil and gas industry, spread among multiple geographies.As of December 31, 2015, the weighted-average rating of our total fixed maturity energy exposure was BBB, and 93% of our exposure to the oil and gas industry was investment grade. Absent a major change in the outlook for oil prices, we expect the increase in market volatility surrounding these issuers to continue. This could lead to increased negative ratings activity from the public rating agencies for energy credit issuers. We do not currently expect our investments in the energy sector to have a material impact on our results of operations.For more information regarding credit risk, see the Market Risks of Financial Instruments - Credit Risk subsection of Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, of this Form 10-K.We are exposed to significant interest rate risk, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.We have substantial investment portfolios that support our policy liabilities. Low levels of interest rates on investments, especially those currently being experienced in Japan and the United States, have reduced the level of investment income earned by the Company. Our overall level of investment income will be negatively impacted if a low-interest-rate environment persists. While we generally seek to maintain a diversified portfolio of fixed-income investments that reflects the cash flow and duration characteristics of the liabilities it supports, we may not be able to fully mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the ability to invest future cash flows to support the interest rate assumption made at the time our products were priced and the related reserving assumptions were established. A sustained decline in interest rates could hinder our ability to earn the returns assumed in the pricing and the reserving for our products at the time they were sold and issued. Due to low interest rates, our ability to earn the returns we expect may also influence our ability to develop and price attractive new products and could impact our overall sales levels. Our first sector products are more interest rate sensitive than third sector products. The recent negative interest rate imposed by the Bank of Japan on excess bank reserves could have a negative impact on the distribution and pricing of these products.A rise in interest rates could improve our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds that we reinvest. However, an increase in the differential of short-term U.S. and Japan interest rates would increase the cost of hedging our U.S. dollar-denominated assets into yen. We also have exposure to interest rates related to the value of the substantial investment portfolios that support our policy liabilities. Changes in interest rates have a direct impact on the fair values of fixed securities in our investment portfolio; however, they do not have a direct impact on the related valuation of the corresponding liabilities. Prolonged periods of low interest rates, as have been experienced in recent years, heighten the risk of future increases in interest rates because of an increasing proportion of our investment portfolio includes investments that bear lower rates of return than the embedded book yield of the investment portfolio. A rise in interest rates could increase the net unrealized loss position of our debt and perpetual securities. Some of the insurance products that Aflac sells in the United States and Japan provide cash surrender values. A rise in interest rates could trigger significant policy lapsation which might require 15the Company to sell investment assets and recognize unrealized losses. This situation is commonly referred to as disintermediation risk. Conversely, a decline in interest rates could decrease the net unrealized loss position of our debt and perpetual securities. While we generally invest our assets to match the duration and cash flow characteristics of our policy liabilities, and therefore would not expect to realize most of these gains or losses, our risk is that unforeseen events or economic conditions, such as changes in interest rates resulting from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control, reduce the effectiveness of this strategy and either cause us to dispose of some or all of these investments prior to their maturity, or increase the risk that the issuers of these securities may default or may require impairment, which could result in our having to recognize such gains or losses.Rising interest rates also negatively impact the SMR since unrealized losses on the available-for-sale investment portfolio are included in the calculation. While we closely monitor the SMR and have taken steps to reduce the sensitivity of Aflac Japan's available-for-sale portfolio to increases in interest rates, there is no assurance that these measures will be fully effective, particularly for sharp increases in interest rates. For regulatory accounting purposes for Aflac Japan, there are certain requirements for realizing impairments that could be triggered by rising interest rates, negatively impacting Aflac Japan's earnings and corresponding repatriation and capital deployment. We mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by diversifying our portfolio to risk factors that may be expected to have negative correlation to interest rates, particularly in periods of heightened market volatility. These include equity, credit, and currency risk factors. However, interest rate risk is still an inherent portfolio, business and capital risk for us, and significant changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows through realized losses, impairments, changes in unrealized positions, and liquidity.For more information regarding interest rate risk, see the Interest Rate Risk subsection within the Market Risks of Financial Instruments section of MD&A in this report.Our concentration of business in Japan poses risks to our operations.Our operations in Japan, including realized gains and losses on Aflac Japan's investment portfolio, accounted for 70% of our total revenues for 2015, compared with 72% in 2014 and 74% in 2013. The Japanese operations accounted for 83% of our total assets at December 31, 2015, compared with 82% at December 31, 2014. Further, because of the concentration of our business in Japan and our need for long-dated yen-denominated assets, we have a substantial concentration of JGBs in our investment portfolio. As such we have material exposure to the Japanese economy, geo-political climate, political regime, and other factors that generally determine a country's creditworthiness. Specifically, the NRSROs have placed increased scrutiny on JGBs, which are a significant component of the Company’s overall investment portfolio, resulting in downgrades as discussed later in this Risk Factors section. The NAIC is also considering changes to investment risk factors. Any negative developments by the NRSROs or NAIC in these areas could result in increased capital requirements for the Company.We seek to match the investment currency and interest rate risk to our yen liabilities. The low level of interest rates available on yen-denominated securities has a negative effect on our overall net investment income. A large portion of the cash available for reinvestment each year is deployed in yen-denominated instruments and subject to the low level of yen interest rates.Any potential deterioration in Japan's credit quality, market access, the overall economy of Japan, or Japanese market volatility could adversely impact the business of Aflac in general and specifically Aflac Japan and our related results of operations and financial condition.Lack of availability of acceptable yen-denominated investments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or liquidity.We attempt to match both the duration and currency of our assets with our liabilities. This is very difficult for Aflac Japan due to the lack of long-dated yen-denominated fixed income instruments. Prior to the financial crisis of 2008, the Company was focused on investing cash flows in JGBs, which had relatively low yields, and utilizing private placement and perpetual securities to gain additional yield, extend the duration of the investment portfolio, and maintain yen exposure. The investment in private placements and perpetual securities has led to increased risks associated with illiquidity. 16Starting in 2012, Aflac Japan augmented its investment strategy to include U.S. dollar-denominated securities which could then be hedged back to yen. Initially this program focused on public investment-grade bonds but has evolved over time to include U.S. dollar-denominated high yield corporate bonds, bank loans and middle market loans. As of December 31, 2015, Aflac Japan held approximately $22.7 billion in U.S. dollar-denominated income producing securities, at amortized cost, and approximately $14.3 billion of notional in foreign currency forwards and options to hedge principal currency risk. We plan to continue adding other instruments denominated in U.S. dollars to improve the portfolio diversification and/or return profile. Some of the U.S. dollar-denominated asset classes that we anticipate adding have less liquidity than investment-grade corporate bonds.  These strategies will continue to increase our exposure to U.S. interest rates, credit spreads and other risks. We have increased foreign exchange risk exposure as the comprehensive hedging program may not always correlate to the underlying U.S. dollar-denominated assets, thereby increasing earnings volatility. These risks can significantly impact the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.If we fail to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our third-party service providers and business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain its confidentiality, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected.The collection, maintenance, use, protection, disclosure and disposal of individually identifiable data by our businesses are regulated at the international, federal and state levels. These laws and rules are subject to change by legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation. Various state laws address the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data to the extent they are more restrictive than those contained in the privacy and security provisions in the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA) and in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA).  HIPAA also requires that we impose privacy and security requirements on our business associates (as such term is defined in the HIPAA regulations). With regard to personal  information obtained from policyholders, the  insured, or others, Aflac Japan is regulated in Japan by the Act on the Protection of Personal Information (APPI) and guidelines issued by FSA and other governmental authorities.Even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts and perform information security risk assessments with third-party service providers and business associates, we still have limited control over their actions and practices. In addition, despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. The U.S. Congress and many states are considering new privacy and security requirements that would apply to our business. Compliance with new privacy and security laws, requirements, and new regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes, new limitations or constraints on our business models, the development of new administrative processes, and the effects of potential noncompliance by our business associates. They also may impose further restrictions on our collection, disclosure and use of patient identifiable data that are housed in one or more of our administrative databases. Noncompliance with any privacy laws or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, theft or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us or by one of our vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations, including: material fines and penalties; compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages; consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices; adverse actions against our licenses to do business; and injunctive relief.In addition, under Japanese laws and regulations, including the APPI, if a leak or loss of personal information by  Aflac Japan or its business associates should occur, depending on factors such as the volume of personal data involved and the likelihood of other secondary damage, Aflac Japan may be required to file reports to the FSA; issue public releases explaining such incident to the public; or become subject to an FSA business improvement order, which could pose a risk to our reputation.We are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate.Due to the size of Aflac Japan, where our functional currency is the Japanese yen, fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. Aflac Japan's premiums and approximately half of its investment income are received in yen. Claims and expenses are paid in yen, and we purchase yen-denominated assets and U.S. dollar-denominated assets, which may be hedged to yen to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. These and other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however, translated into dollars for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate can have a significant 17effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. In periods when the yen weakens, translating yen into dollars causes fewer dollars to be reported. When the yen strengthens, translating yen into dollars causes more dollars to be reported. Any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income. As a result, yen weakening has the effect of suppressing current year results in relation to the prior year, while yen strengthening has the effect of magnifying current year results in relation to the prior year. In addition, the weakening of the yen relative to the dollar will generally adversely affect the value of our yen-denominated investments in dollar terms. Foreign currency translation also impacts the computation of our risk-based capital ratio because Aflac Japan is consolidated in our U.S. statutory filings due to its status as a branch. Our required capital, as determined by the application of risk factors to our assets and liabilities, is proportionately more sensitive to changes in the exchange rate than our total adjusted capital. As a result, when the yen strengthens relative to the dollar, our RBC and SMR is suppressed. We engage in certain foreign currency hedging activities for the purpose of hedging the yen exposure to our net investment in our branch operations in Japan. These hedging activities are limited in scope and we cannot provide assurance that these activities will be effective. Aflac Japan is exposed to further foreign exchange risk through its investment in unhedged U.S. dollar-denominated securities. When the yen strengthens, the unhedged U.S. dollar-denominated investments will experience unrealized foreign exchange losses, negatively impacting SMR. For regulatory accounting purposes for Aflac Japan, there are certain requirements for realizing impairments that could be triggered by changes in the yen/dollar exchange rate and could negatively impact Aflac Japan's earnings and the corresponding repatriation and capital deployment.Additionally, we are exposed to economic currency risk when yen cash flows are converted into dollars, resulting in an increase or decrease in our earnings when exchange gains or losses are realized. This primarily occurs when we repatriate funds from Aflac Japan to Aflac U.S., but it also has an impact when yen cash is converted to U.S. dollars for investment into U.S. dollar-denominated assets (as described above). The exchange rates prevailing at the time of repatriation may differ from the exchange rates prevailing at the time the yen profits were earned. We engage in foreign currency hedging activities to mitigate the exposure to this foreign exchange risk.We engage in monthly stress testing related to derivatives used to hedge profit repatriation. This stress testing assures that we have sufficient eligible collateral to post in the event foreign exchange rates move against our current positions. The liquidity test is performed before any new derivative positions are entered into as well as on a forward-looking basis. The test simulates a three standard deviation movement in the foreign exchange rates over a three-month period. Given that we have a large exposure to JGBs, a similar test is not performed for the derivative positions on our U.S. dollar hedge program in the Aflac Japan investment portfolio. For more information regarding foreign currency risk, see the Currency Risk subsection within the Market Risks of Financial Instruments section of MD&A in this report.If future policy benefits, claims or expenses exceed those anticipated in establishing premiums and reserves, our financial results would be adversely affected.We establish and carry, as a liability, reserves based on estimates of how much will be required to pay for future benefits and claims. We calculate these reserves using various assumptions and estimates, including premiums we will receive over the assumed life of the policy; the timing, frequency and severity of the events covered by the insurance policy; and the investment returns on the assets we purchase with a portion of our net cash flow from operations. These assumptions and estimates are inherently uncertain. Accordingly, we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits and claims or whether the assets supporting the policy liabilities will grow to the level we assume prior to payment of benefits or claims. If our actual experience is different from our assumptions or estimates, our reserves may prove inadequate. As a result, we would incur a charge to earnings in the period in which we determine such a shortfall exists, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a holding company, the Parent Company depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock.The Parent Company is a holding company and has no direct operations or significant assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock. Aflac is domiciled in Nebraska and is subject to insurance regulations that impose certain 18limitations and restrictions on payments of dividends, management fees, loans and advances by Aflac to the Parent Company. The Nebraska insurance statutes require prior approval for dividend distributions that exceed the greater of the net income from operations, which excludes net realized investment gains, for the previous year determined under statutory accounting principles, or 10% of statutory capital and surplus as of the previous year-end. In addition, the Nebraska insurance department must approve service arrangements and other transactions within the affiliated group of companies. In addition, the FSA may not allow profit repatriations or other transfers from Aflac Japan if they would cause Aflac Japan to lack sufficient financial strength for the protection of Japanese policyholders.The ability of Aflac to pay dividends or make other payments to the Parent Company could also be constrained by our dependence on financial strength ratings from independent rating agencies. Our ratings from these agencies depend to a large extent on Aflac's capitalization level. Any inability of Aflac to pay dividends or make other payments to the Parent Company could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that the earnings from, or other available assets of, our operating subsidiaries will be sufficient to make distributions to enable us to operate.The success of our business depends in part on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology.Our business depends in large part on our technology systems for interacting with employers, policyholders, sales associates, and brokers, and our business strategy involves providing customers with easy-to-use products to meet their needs and ensuring employees have the technology in place to support those needs. Some of our information technology systems and software are older, legacy-type systems that are less efficient and require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain or upgrade to current standards (including adequate business continuity procedures). We are in a continual state of upgrading and enhancing our business systems; however, these changes are always challenging in our complex integrated environment. Our success is dependent in large part on maintaining or improving the effectiveness of existing systems and continuing to develop and enhance information systems that support our business processes in a cost-efficient manner.The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular single-issuer or sector of the economy may have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.Negative events or developments affecting any particular single issuer, industry, group of related industries or geographic sector may have an adverse impact on a particular holding or set of holdings. We seek to minimize this risk by maintaining an appropriate level of diversification. To the extent we have concentrated positions, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our global investment guidelines establish concentration limits for our investment portfolios. At December 31, 2015, we held approximately $36.9 billion, or 38.4% of our total debt and perpetual securities, in JGBs. After downgrades by two rating agencies in 2015, JGBs were rated A1/A+/A at December 31, 2015 by Moody's, S&P and Fitch, respectively. At December 31, 2015, 11% of our total portfolio of debt and perpetual securities was in the bank and financial institution sector. For further details on the concentrations within our investment portfolios see the Analysis of Financial Condition section of MD&A in this report. A decline in the creditworthiness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.We have exposure to and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including broker dealers, derivative counterparties, commercial banks and other institutions. We use derivative instruments to mitigate various risks associated with our investment portfolio, notes payable, and profit repatriation. We enter into a variety of agreements involving assorted instruments including foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency options, foreign currency and interest rate swaps, and options on interest rate swaps (or interest rate swaptions). To provide additional alternatives to increase our overall portfolio yield while managing our overall currency risk, starting in 2012, we have invested a significant portion of the investable cash flow generated by Aflac Japan into U.S. dollar-denominated investment grade public bonds and hedged these bonds to yen through the use of currency forward and option contracts. The derivative forward and option contracts are of a shorter maturity than the hedged bonds which creates roll-over risks within the hedging program. Due to changes in market environments, there is a risk the hedges become ineffective and lose the corresponding hedge accounting treatment. At December 31, 2015, we held foreign currency forwards and options of approximately $14.3 billion notional associated with Aflac Japan's U.S. dollar-19denominated investments referenced above, foreign currency swaps of $3.7 billion notional associated with our notes payable, and foreign currency forwards and options of approximately $1.0 billion notional used to economically hedge profit repatriation. The Company's increased use of derivatives has increased our financial exposure to derivative counterparties. To mitigate counterparty exposure, we have established internal limits based on counterparties' credit ratings. Our internal limits include deposit and derivative exposure that we monitor on a daily basis. If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under derivative instruments, our hedges of the risks will be ineffective. We engage in derivative transactions directly with unaffiliated third parties under International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) agreements and other documentation. Most of the ISDA agreements we enter into also include Credit Support Annexes (CSA), which generally provide for two-way collateral postings, in certain cases at the first dollar of exposure and in other cases once various rating and exposure threshold levels are triggered. We attempt to mitigate the risk that counterparties to transactions might be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations by monitoring counterparty credit exposure and collateral value while generally requiring that collateral be posted at the outset of a transaction or that collateral be posted upon the occurrence of certain events or circumstances. In addition, a significant portion of the derivative transactions have provisions that require collateral to be posted upon a downgrade of our long-term debt ratings or give the counterparty the right to terminate the transaction upon a downgrade of Aflac’s financial strength ratings. The actual amount of collateral required to be posted to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that we could be required to make, depends on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions, and other factors prevailing at and after the time of any such downgrade. If the Company is required to post collateral to support derivative contracts and/or pay cash to settle the contracts at maturity, the Company's liquidity could be strained. We have implemented a liquidity test to determine that sufficient collateral is available when the Company is required to post collateral and/or pay cash.Further, we have agreements with various financial institutions for the distribution of our insurance products. For example, at December 31, 2015, we had agreements with 372 banks to market Aflac's products in Japan. Sales through these banks represented 14.9% of Aflac Japan's new annualized premium sales in 2015. Any material adverse effect on these or other financial institutions could also have an adverse effect on our sales.The Company has entered into significant reinsurance transactions with large, highly rated counterparties. Negative events or developments affecting any one of these counterparties could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.All of these risks related to exposure to other financial institutions could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.Sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and support a network of qualified sales associates.Our sales could be adversely affected if our sales networks deteriorate or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education for our existing network. Competition exists for sales associates with demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers and financial institutions primarily on the basis of our products, compensation, support services and financial rating. An inability to attract and retain qualified sales associates could have a material adverse effect on sales and our results of operations and financial condition. Our sales associates are independent contractors and may sell products of our competitors. If our competitors offer products that are more attractive than ours, or pay higher commissions than we do, these sales associates may concentrate their efforts on selling our competitors' products instead of ours. In addition to our commissioned sales force, Aflac has expanded its sales leadership team to include a salaried sales force of over 175 market directors and broker sales professionals. Our ability to attract and retain top talent in these salaried roles has a material impact on our sales success.The valuation of our investments and derivatives includes methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.The vast majority of our financial instruments are subject to the fair value classification provisions under U.S. GAAP, which specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on observable or unobservable inputs to valuations, and relates to our investment securities classified as available for sale in our investment portfolio, which comprised $67.8 billion (64%) of our total cash and invested assets, and our entire derivatives portfolio, comprising $676 million of derivative assets and $371 million of derivative liabilities, as of December 31, 2015. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have categorized these 20securities and derivatives into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1). It gives the next priority to quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities and other inputs that can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities (Level 2). The lowest priority represents unobservable inputs supported by little or no market activity and that reflect the reporting entity's understanding about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability (Level 3). An asset or liability's classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation.At December 31, 2015, approximately 28% and 72% of our total available-for-sale securities represented Level 1 and Level 2 securities, respectively, and approximately 62% and 38% of our total derivatives exposure were classified as Level 2 and Level 3, respectively. Financial instruments may be transferred to Level 3 from Levels 1 and 2 during periods of market disruption or illiquidity.  As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated, thereby resulting in values which may be greater or less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly.Valuations of our derivatives fluctuate with changes in underlying market variables, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. During periods of market turbulence created by political instability, economic uncertainty, government interventions or other factors, we may experience significant changes in the volatility of our derivative valuations. Extreme market conditions can also affect the liquidity of such instruments creating marked differences in transaction levels and counterparty valuations. Depending on the severity and direction of the movements in its derivative valuations, the Company will face increases in the amount of collateral required to be posted with its counterparties. Liquidity stresses to the Company may also occur if the required collateral amounts increase significantly over a very short period of time. Conversely, the Company may be exposed to an increase in counterparty credit risk for short periods of time while calling collateral from its counterparties.For further discussion on investment and derivative valuations, see Notes 1, 3, 4, and 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.The determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is based on significant valuation judgments and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position.An investment in a fixed maturity, perpetual or equity security is impaired if the fair value falls below book value. We regularly review our entire investment portfolio for declines in value. The majority of our investments are evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment using our debt impairment model, while our investments in equities and below-investment-grade perpetual securities are evaluated using our equity impairment model. Our debt impairment model includes emphasis on the ultimate collection of the cash flows from our investments. The determination of the amount of impairments under this model is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective securities. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.  For our fixed maturity and perpetual securities reported in the available-for-sale portfolio, we report the investments at fair value in the statement of financial condition and record any unrealized gain or loss in the value of the asset in accumulated other comprehensive income. For our held-to-maturity portfolio, we report the investments at amortized cost. The determination of whether an impairment in value is other than temporary is based largely on our evaluation of the issuer's creditworthiness. We must apply considerable judgment in determining the likelihood of the security recovering in value while we own it. Factors that may influence this include our assessment of the issuer’s ability to continue making timely payments of interest and principal, the overall level of interest rates and credit spreads, and other factors. We also verify our intent to hold the securities until they recover in value. If we determine it is unlikely we will recover our book value of the instrument prior to our disposal of the security, we will reduce the carrying value of the security to its fair value and recognize any associated impairment loss in our consolidated statement of earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on the nature of the loss.21Our investments in perpetual securities that are rated below investment grade and equity securities are evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment under our equity impairment model. This impairment model focuses on the severity of a security's decline in fair value coupled with the length of time the fair value of the security has been below cost or amortized cost and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer. For equity securities, we also verify our intent to hold the securities until they recover in value.For regulatory accounting purposes for Aflac Japan, there are certain requirements for realizing impairments that could be triggered by rising interest rates or credit-related losses, negatively impacting Aflac Japan's earnings and corresponding repatriation and capital deployment. Our management updates its evaluations regularly as conditions change and as new information becomes available and reflects impairment losses in the Company's income statement when considered necessary. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments.We are subject to certain risks as a result of our investments in perpetual securities.As of December 31, 2015, we held $1.8 billion of perpetual securities, at amortized cost, which represented 1.9% of our total portfolio of debt and perpetual securities. Perpetual securities have characteristics of both debt and equity instruments. These securities do not have a stated maturity date, but generally have a stated fixed rate coupon that was fixed at the time of issuance but then changes to a floating rate coupon at some predetermined date. Most perpetual securities have call features including the ability of the issuer to retire the debt at par upon the change to a floating rate security. Generally, the mechanics of the floating rate change were intended at the time of issuance to incent the borrower to call the instrument, having the effect of creating an expected economic maturity date. We believe many of the issuers of our perpetual securities will call the instruments upon a change in payment structure but there are no assurances the issuers will do so. While we have recently experienced calls for certain perpetual securities upon their economic maturity dates, there can be no assurance the remaining issuers will have the ability to repay the outstanding principal amount. Perpetual securities may contain provisions allowing the borrower to defer paying interest for a time. In some cases, we have contractual provisions that stipulate any deferred interest payment accumulates for our benefit and must be paid in the future. There is no assurance such issuers will not choose to defer making payments or will be able to honor a cumulative deferral feature.There is also a risk that the accounting for these perpetual securities could change in a manner that would have an adverse impact on the reporting for these securities. At the date of filing this Form 10-K, the SEC does not object to the use of a debt impairment model for impairment recognition of these securities as long as there is no significant deterioration in the credit condition of the perpetual securities. The debt impairment model allows the holder to consider whether or not interest and principal payments will be received in accordance with contractual terms and whether the holder has the intent to sell or if it is more likely than not would be required to sell the security prior to recovery of its amortized cost. The equity impairment model applied to below-investment-grade perpetual securities, by contrast, emphasizes the length of time a security's fair value has been below its cost basis and the percentage decline to determine whether an impairment should be recorded, without consideration to the holder's intent and ability to hold the security until recovery in value. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) recently issued new accounting guidance on financial instruments classification and measurement and is also working on the financial instruments project which addresses impairment and hedging. The impact of the FASB project is uncertain but could result in changes to the current accounting model for perpetual securities. For information on new accounting pronouncements and the impact, if any, on our financial position or results of operations, see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.Any decrease in our financial strength or debt ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position and access to liquidity and capital.Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and generally have an effect on the business of insurance companies. On an ongoing basis NRSROs review the financial performance and condition of insurers and may downgrade or change the outlook on an insurer's ratings due to, for example, a change in an insurer's statutory capital; a change in a rating agency's determination of the amount of risk-adjusted capital required to maintain a particular rating; an increase in the perceived risk of an insurer's investment portfolio; a reduced confidence in management; or other considerations that may or may not be under the insurer's control. In addition to financial strength ratings, various NRSROs also publish ratings on our debt. These ratings are indicators of a debt issuer's ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our 22ability to access liquidity and capital from the debt markets or other available sources, such as reinsurance. Downgrades in our credit ratings could give our derivative counterparties the right to require early termination of derivatives transactions or delivery of additional collateral, thereby adversely affecting our liquidity.In view of the difficulties experienced after the financial crisis by many financial institutions, including in the insurance industry, the NRSROs have heightened the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, increased the frequency and scope of their reviews, requested additional information from the companies that they rate, including additional information regarding the valuation of investment securities held, and, in certain cases, have increased the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of certain rating levels.On September 16, 2015, S&P downgraded their rating of Japan’s sovereign credit risk. They also downgraded several other foreign insurers, including Aflac. S&P has stated in the past that a downgrade of Japan's sovereign rating would lead to a downgrade of our financial strength rating. S&P rarely rates insurance companies above the sovereign long-term rating of the country of domicile because during times of stress, the sovereign’s regulatory and supervisory powers may restrict an insurer’s or financial system’s flexibility. Although we are a U.S.-based insurer, our significant operations in Japan and corresponding regulation by the Japanese FSA, combined with our significant exposure to JGBs as outlined above, resulted in S&P downgrading Aflac’s financial strength rating to A+ with a stable outlook. A downgrade in our ratings could have a material adverse effect on agent recruiting and retention, sales, competitiveness and the marketability of our products which could negatively impact our liquidity, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, sales through the bank channel in Japan could be adversely affected as a result of their reliance and sensitivity to ratings levels.We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any NRSRO.Our risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses.We have developed an enterprise-wide risk management and governance framework to mitigate risk and loss to the Company. We maintain policies, procedures and controls intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the risks to which the Company is exposed. However, there are inherent limitations to risk management strategies because there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company may suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. As our businesses change and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management framework may not evolve at the same pace as those changes. As a result, there is a risk that new products or new business strategies may present risks that are not appropriately identified, monitored or managed. In times of market stress, unanticipated market movements or unanticipated claims experience resulting from greater than expected morbidity, mortality, longevity, or persistency, the effectiveness of our risk management strategies may be limited, resulting in losses to the Company. In addition, under difficult or less liquid market conditions, our risk management strategies may not be effective because other market participants may be using the same or similar strategies to manage risk under the same challenging market conditions. In such circumstances, it may be difficult or more expensive for the Company to mitigate risk due to the activity of such other market participants.Many of our risk management strategies or techniques are based upon historical customer and market behavior and all such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management’s subjective judgment. We cannot provide assurance that our risk management framework, including the underlying assumptions or strategies, will be accurate and effective. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies, procedures and controls to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies, procedures and controls may not be fully effective. Models are utilized by our businesses and corporate areas primarily to project future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. These models may not operate properly and rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. As our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we 23utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. Given that there is risk involved with using any models, we are in the process of developing a model risk framework. Our risk committee has approved a model risk policy, which describes the necessary governance related to our models. Past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our third parties (suppliers which are cost-based relationships and alliance partners which are revenue-generating relationships) could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Despite our published Supplier Code of Conduct, due diligence of our alliance partners, and rigorous contracting procedures (including financial, legal, IT security, and risk reviews), there can be no assurance that controls and procedures that we employ, which are designed to assess third party viability and prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, will be effective. We review our supplier cost structures and alliance compensation policies and practices as part of our overall risk management program, but it is possible that these cost structures and forms of compensation could inadvertently incentivize excessive or inappropriate risk taking. If our third parties take excessive or inappropriate risks, those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.Extensive regulation and changes in legislation can impact profitability and growth.Aflac's insurance subsidiaries are subject to complex laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of governmental authorities, including state insurance regulators, the SEC, the NAIC, the FIO, the FSA and Ministry of Finance (MOF) in Japan, the U.S. Department of Justice, state attorneys general, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the U.S. Treasury, including the Internal Revenue Service, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. In addition, proposals regarding the global regulation of insurance are under discussion. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal or regulatory issue may not result in compliance with another regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. There is also a risk that any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal or regulatory issue may change over time to our detriment. In addition, changes in the overall legal or regulatory environment may, even absent any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of an issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal or regulatory risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow or otherwise negatively impact the profitability of our business. The primary purpose of insurance company regulatory supervision is the protection of insurance policyholders, rather than investors. The extent of regulation varies, but generally is governed by state statutes in the United States and by the FSA and the MOF in Japan. These systems of supervision and regulation cover, among other things: •standards of establishing and setting premium rates and the approval thereof•standards of minimum capital and reserve requirements and solvency margins, including risk-based capital measures•restrictions on, limitations on and required approval of certain transactions between our insurance subsidiaries and their affiliates, including management fee arrangements•restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments•restrictions on the types of terms and conditions that we can include in the insurance policies offered by our primary insurance operations•limitations on the amount of dividends that insurance subsidiaries can pay or foreign profits that can be repatriated•the existence and licensing status of a company under circumstances where it is not writing new or renewal business•certain required methods of accounting•reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes•assignment of residual market business and potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies•administrative practices requirements•imposition of fines and other sanctions24Regulatory authorities periodically re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including health care reform legislation, financial services reform legislation, securities regulation, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation, can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. Various forms of federal oversight and regulation of insurance have been passed by the U.S. Congress and signed into law by the president. For example, the ACA, federal health care reform legislation, gives the U.S. federal government direct regulatory authority over the business of health insurance. The reform includes major changes to the U.S. health care insurance marketplace. Among other changes, the reform legislation includes an individual medical insurance coverage mandate, provides for penalties on certain employers for failing to provide adequate coverage, creates health insurance exchanges, and addresses coverage and exclusions as well as medical loss ratios. The legislation also includes changes in government reimbursements and tax credits for individuals and employers and alters federal and state regulation of health insurers. These changes, directed toward major medical health insurance coverage which Aflac does not offer, will continue to be implemented over the next several years. While enacted in 2010, the major elements of the bill became effective on January 1, 2014. We believe that the ACA, as enacted, does not materially affect the design of our insurance products. However, indirect consequences of the legislation and regulations could present challenges and/or opportunities that could potentially have an impact on our sales model, financial condition and results of operations.On December 18, 2015, the president signed into law the Consolidated Appropriations Act which included a revision to delay implementation of the Excise Tax on High Cost Plans, better known as the "Cadillac tax.” This tax was originally scheduled to begin in 2017, was previously delayed until 2018, and is now scheduled to begin in 2020. The tax consists of 40% of the cost of employer sponsored health coverage in excess of certain dollar thresholds. In general, only Aflac specified disease and fixed indemnity (i.e. supplemental health) products offered on a pre-tax basis are taken into account under this tax.   The legislation also makes the tax deductible by the payer. If employers fund coverage on a pre-tax basis, Aflac, as the insurer, would be liable for its pro-rata share of any tax on excess coverage, determined based on the cost of Aflac coverage compared to the total cost of the applicable health coverage in which each employee is enrolled. Making the tax deductible would then reduce the economic impact of any tax that is imposed and payable by Aflac. Many employers are concerned about the tax and what impact it will have on benefit offerings in the future. There is confusion in the market about how the tax is calculated and who pays the tax, presenting a risk that some employers will mistakenly conclude that all supplemental health products are included in the calculation for the tax regardless of pre-tax funding status or whether an employer’s health coverage exceeds the trigger for the tax. Some employers may decide simply to drop coverage of affected supplemental health products, rather than convert it to an after-tax basis. During this extended implementation period, Aflac will be assessing the impact of this tax; educating employers about the tax; and investigating ways to mitigate the impact of the tax. Having employees pay for the coverage on an after-tax basis would exempt affected supplemental health products from the tax.In 2010, the president signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, commonly known as the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other things, created a Financial Stability Oversight Council (the Council). In April 2012, the Council released a final rule describing the general process it will follow in determining whether to designate a nonbank financial company for supervision by the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve System (the Board). The Council may designate by a two-thirds vote whether certain nonbank financial companies, including certain insurance companies and insurance holding companies, could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States, in which case such nonbank financial companies would become subject to prudential regulation by the Board. On April 3, 2013, the Board published a final rule that establishes the requirements for determining when a nonbank financial company is "predominantly engaged in financial activities" - a prerequisite for designation by the Council. Prudential regulation by the Board includes supervision of capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements and examinations. The Board may limit such company’s ability to enter into mergers, acquisitions and other business combination transactions, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate one or more activities, or impose conditions on the manner in which it conducts activities. The Council designated two insurers in 2013 and an additional insurer in 2014 for supervision by the Board. On December 18, 2014, the president signed the Insurance Capital Standards Clarification Act into law. This legislation clarifies the Board’s authority to apply insurance-based capital standards for insurance companies subject to federal supervision. Although Aflac is a nonbank financial company predominantly engaged in financial activities as defined in the Dodd-Frank Act, we do not believe Aflac will be considered a company that poses a threat to the financial stability of the United States. 25Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations issued thereunder may have an impact on Aflac's derivative activity, including activity on behalf of Aflac Japan, in particular rules to require central clearing and collateral for certain types of derivatives. In 2014, the five U.S. banking regulators and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) re-proposed for comment their rules regarding collateral for uncleared swaps. Final rules were issued by the five U.S. banking regulators on October 22, 2015 and by the CFTC on December 16, 2015. Such rules may result in increased collateral requirements or affect other aspects of Aflac's derivatives activity.The Dodd-Frank Act also established an FIO under the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry and of lines of business other than certain health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. Traditionally, U.S. insurance companies have been regulated primarily by state insurance departments. In December 2013, the FIO released a report entitled "How To Modernize And Improve The System Of Insurance Regulation In The United States." The report was required by the Dodd-Frank Act, and included 18 recommended areas of near-term reform for the states, including addressing capital adequacy and safety/soundness issues, reform of insurer resolution practices, and reform of marketplace regulation. The report also listed nine recommended areas for direct federal involvement in insurance regulation. Some of the recommendations outlined in the FIO report released in December 2013 have been implemented. Of the nine recommended areas for direct federal involvement in insurance regulation that are applicable to Aflac, the president has signed the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers Reform Act into law in January 2015, which simplifies the agent and broker licensing process across state lines. The FIO has also engaged with the supervisory colleges to monitor financial stability and identify regulatory gaps for large national and internationally active insurers.The process of implementing the Dodd-Frank Act is ongoing and continues to involve additional rulemaking from time to time. At the current time, it is not possible to predict with any degree of certainty what impact, if any, the Dodd-Frank Act will have on our U.S. business, financial condition, or results of operations.Changes in domestic or foreign tax laws or interpretations of such laws could increase our corporate taxes and reduce our earnings. Additionally, global budget deficits make it likely that governments’ need for additional revenue will result in future tax proposals that will increase our effective tax rate. However, it remains difficult to predict the timing and effect that future tax law changes could have on our earnings both in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business.We depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering, security breaches or other cyber-attacks, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to customers, or in the misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information. Although the minor data leakage issues we have experienced to date have not had a material effect on our business, interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business and service our customers, harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business.Catastrophic events could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events including, but not necessarily limited to, epidemics, pandemics, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and acts of terrorism. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Certain events such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes and man-made catastrophes could cause substantial damage or loss of life in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man−made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year 26and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition, as well as affect our ability to write new business. Changes in accounting standards issued by the FASB or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles in both the United States and Japan, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. During the last three years, various accounting standard-setting bodies have been active in soliciting comments and issuing statements, interpretations and exposure drafts. For information on new accounting pronouncements and the impact, if any, on our financial position or results of operations, see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.Managing key executive succession is critical to our success.We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for succession of our senior management and other key executives. While we have succession plans and employment arrangements with certain key executives, these plans cannot guarantee that the services of these executives will be available to us, and our operations could be adversely affected if they are not. We face risks related to litigation.We are a defendant in various lawsuits considered to be in the normal course of business. Members of our senior legal and financial management teams review litigation on a quarterly and annual basis. The final results of any litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. Although some of this litigation is pending in states where large punitive damages, bearing little relation to the actual damages sustained by plaintiffs, have been awarded in recent years, we believe the outcome of pending litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, litigation could adversely affect us because of the costs of defending these cases, costs of settlement or judgments against us or because of changes in our operations that could result from litigation.Changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return, life expectancy, health care cost and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability.We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, life expectancy of plan participants and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. Changes in these assumptions, including from the impact of a sustained low interest rate environment, may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability.We operate in an industry that is subject to ongoing changes.We operate in a competitive environment and in an industry that is subject to ongoing changes from market pressures brought about by customer demands, legislative reform, marketing practices and changes to health care and health insurance delivery. These factors require us to anticipate market trends and make changes to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors. We also face the potential of competition from existing or new companies in the United States and Japan that have not historically been active in the supplemental health insurance industry. Failure to anticipate market trends and/or to differentiate our products and services can affect our ability to retain or grow profitable lines of business.27Events, including those external to our operations, could damage our reputation.Because insurance products are intangible, we rely to a large extent on consumer trust in our business. The perception of financial weakness could create doubt regarding our ability to honor the commitments we have made to our policyholders. Maintaining our stature as a responsible corporate citizen, which helps support the strength of our unique brand, is critical to our reputation and the failure or perceived failure to do so could adversely affect us. We also face other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, which include:•any requirement to restate financial results in the event of inappropriate application of accounting principles•failure to appropriately maintain controls over models used to generate significant inputs to the Company’s financial statements•a significant failure of internal controls over financial reporting•failure of our prevention and control systems related to employee compliance with internal policies and regulatory requirements•failure of corporate governance policies and proceduresITEM 1B