ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS-CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING
    FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS” in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    (“Annual Report”).


 



    Acquisition
    of Arrow


 


    On December 2, 2009, Watson completed its acquisition of
    all the outstanding shares of common stock of Robin Hood
    Holdings Limited, a Malta private limited liability company, and
    Cobalt Laboratories, Inc., a Delaware corporation (together the
    “Arrow Group”) for cash, stock and certain contingent
    consideration (the “Arrow Acquisition”). In accordance
    with the terms of the share purchase agreement dated
    June 16, 2009, as amended on November 26, 2009
    (together the “Acquisition Agreement”), the Company
    acquired all the outstanding shares of common stock of the Arrow
    Group for the following consideration:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The payment of cash and the assumption of certain liabilities
    totaling $1.05 billion;




 



     
        • 

    
    Approximately 16.9 million restricted shares of Common
    Stock of Watson (the “Restricted Common Stock”);




 



     
        • 

    
    200,000 shares of newly designated mandatorily redeemable,
    non-voting Series A Preferred Stock of Watson (the
    “Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Stock”) placed in an
    indemnity escrow account for the benefit of the former
    shareholders of the Arrow Group (the “Arrow Selling
    Shareholders”). The Arrow Selling Shareholders will be
    entitled to the proceeds of the Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred
    Stock in 2012, less the amount of any indemnity
    payments; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Certain contingent consideration based on the after-tax gross
    profits on sales of the authorized generic version of
    Lipitor®

    (atorvastatin) in the U.S. calculated and payable as
    described in the Acquisition Agreement.





 


    Founded in 2000, Arrow Group has been one of the fastest growing
    generic pharmaceutical companies in the world, growing from
    $18 million in revenue in 2001 to $647 million in
    2008. Over the past seven years, Arrow has invested more than
    $320 million in product research and development and
    markets more than 100 molecules, including more than 50
    internally developed generic products. Arrow’s product
    research and development is supported by extensive expertise in
    international intellectual property and regulatory affairs. The
    organization’s knowledge of local regulatory requirements
    has enabled it to establish a strong track record of regulatory
    approvals across the markets where Arrow has operations. Arrow
    Group operating results are included in the Global Generic
    segment subsequent to the date of acquisition.




    
    3



Table of Contents





    As a result of the Arrow Acquisition, Watson also acquired a 36%
    ownership interest in Eden Biopharm Group (“Eden”), a
    company which provides development and manufacturing services
    for early-stage biotech companies, which will provide a
    long-term foundation for generic biologics. In January, 2010, we
    purchased the remaining interest in Eden for $15.0 million.
    Eden will be part of our Global Brand division and will maintain
    its established contract services model, while providing the
    Company with biopharmaceutical development and
    manufacturing capabilities. Arrow currently has strong
    commercial operations in established markets such as the U.S.,
    Canada, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”). and France. The
    Company also has a platform established for growth in solid
    markets such as Australia, New Zealand, Brazil, Scandanavia and
    Germany and opportunities in emerging markets such as Central
    and Eastern Europe, Turkey, Japan and South Africa. Watson
    expects to leverage Arrow Group’s current commercial
    operations and intends to expand its global footprint in these
    markets through joint ventures, acquisitions or entering into
    licensing agreements.


 



    Business
    Description


 


    Prescription pharmaceutical products in the U.S. generally
    are marketed as either generic or brand pharmaceuticals. Generic
    pharmaceutical products are bioequivalents of their respective
    brand products and provide a cost-efficient alternative to brand
    products. Brand pharmaceutical products are marketed under brand
    names through programs that are designed to generate physician
    and consumer loyalty. Through our Distribution Segment, we
    distribute pharmaceutical products, primarily generics, which
    have been commercialized by us and others, to independent and
    chain pharmacies and physicians’ offices. As a result of
    the differences between the types of products we market
    and/or
    distribute and the methods we distribute products, we operate
    and manage our business as three operating segments: Global
    Generics, Global Brands and Distribution. Outside the U.S., our
    operations are primarily in the U.K. and Western Europe. In many
    of these markets, there is limited generic substitution by
    pharmacists and as a result, products are often promoted to
    pharmacies. Therefore, physician and pharmacist loyalty to a
    specific company’s generic product can be a significant
    factor in obtaining market share.


 



    Business
    Strategy


 


    We apply three key strategies to grow our Global Generics and
    Global Brand pharmaceutical businesses: (i) internal
    development of differentiated and high demand products,
    (ii) establishment of strategic alliances and
    collaborations and (iii) acquisition of products and
    companies that complement our existing portfolio. We believe our
    three-pronged strategy will allow us to expand both our brand
    and generic product offerings. Our Distribution business
    distributes products for over 200 suppliers and is focused on
    providing
    next-day
    delivery and responsive service to its customers. Our
    Distribution business also distributes a number of Watson
    generic and brand products. During 2009, the Distribution
    business had 12 substantial new product launches.


 


    With the Arrow Acquisition, we now have commercial operations in
    a number of established international markets with the
    opportunity for rapid growth in many emerging markets around the
    world. We believe a global presence will allow us to expand our
    revenue base and manage risk through diversification. We expect
    to capitalize on opportunities for growth within these new
    markets. Additionally, we will continue to look for
    opportunities to enhance these capabilities through further
    strategic collaborations or acquisitions.


 


    Based upon business conditions, our financial strength and other
    factors, we regularly reexamine our business strategies and may
    change them at anytime. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to Our Business” in this
    Annual Report.


 



    Global
    Generics Segment


 


    Watson is a leader in the development, manufacturing and sale of
    generic pharmaceutical products. When patents or other
    regulatory exclusivity no longer protect a brand product,
    opportunities exist to introduce off-patent or generic
    counterparts to the brand product. These generic products are
    bioequivalent to their brand name counterparts and are generally
    sold at significantly lower prices than the brand product. As
    such, generic pharmaceuticals provide an effective and
    cost-efficient alternative to brand products. Our portfolio of
    generic products includes products we have developed internally,
    products we have licensed from third parties and





    
    4



Table of Contents





    products we distribute for third parties. Net revenues in our
    Global Generic segment accounted for $1.67 billion or
    approximately 60% of our total net revenues in 2009.


 



    Generics
    Strategy


 


    Our Global Generic business is focused on maintaining a leading
    position within the U.S. generics market and strengthening
    our global position by offering a consistent and reliable supply
    of quality generic products.


 


    The Arrow Acquisition is an example of this strategy. Arrow
    Group operating results are included in the Global Generic
    segment subsequent to the date of acquisition except for
    operating results from Eden which will be included in the Global
    Brand segment. With the Arrow Acquisition, we now have
    commercial operations in a number of established international
    markets with the opportunity for growth in many emerging markets
    around the world. We believe a global presence will allow us to
    expand our revenue base and manage risk through diversification.
    We expect to capitalize on opportunities for growth within these
    new markets. Additionally, we will continue to look for
    opportunities to enhance these capabilities through further
    strategic collaborations or acquisitions.


 


    Our strategy is to develop generic pharmaceuticals that are
    difficult to formulate or manufacture or will complement or
    broaden our existing product lines. Since the sales and unit
    volumes of our brand products will likely decrease upon the
    introduction of generic alternatives, we also intend to market
    generic alternatives to our brand products where market
    conditions and the competitive environment justify such
    activities. Additionally, we may distribute generic versions of
    third parties’ brand products (sometimes known as
    “Authorized Generics”) to the extent such arrangements
    are complementary to our core business.


 


    We have maintained an ongoing effort to enhance efficiencies and
    reduce costs in our manufacturing operations. Execution of these
    initiatives will allow us to maintain competitive pricing on our
    products. We are leveraging our broad product line by expanding
    commercial operations outside the U.S.




    
    5



Table of Contents






    Generic
    Product Portfolio


 


    Our portfolio of approximately 170 generic pharmaceutical
    product families includes the following key products which
    represented approximately 60% of total Global Generic segment
    product revenues in 2009:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Watson Generic Product



 



    Comparable Brand Name



 



    Therapeutic Classification




 






    Bupropion hydrochloride SR



 


    Zyban®



 


    Aid to smoking cessation





    Bupropion hydrochloride SR



 


    Wellbutrin
    SR®



 


    Anti-depressant





    Bupropion hydrochloride XL



 


    Wellbutrin
    XL®



 


    Anti-depressant





    Desmopressin acetate



 


    DDAVP®



 


    Antidiuretic





    Diclofenac sodium



 


    Arthrotec®



 


    Osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis





    Dronabinol



 


    Marinol®



 


    Antiemetic





    Fentanyl transdermal system



 


    Duragesic®



 


    Analgesic/narcotic combination





    Glipizide ER



 


    Glucotrol®

    XL


 


    Anti-diabetic





    Hydrocodone bitartrate/
    acetaminophen



 


    Lorcet®,

    Vicodin®,

    Lortab®,

    Norco®/Anexia



 


    Analgesic





    Levora®




 


    Nordette®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Low-Ogestrel®




 


    Lo-Ovral®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Lutera®




 


    Alesse®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Metoprolol succinate ER



 


    Toprol
    XL®



 


    Anti-hypertensive





    Microgestin®/Microgestin®

    Fe



 


    Loestrin®/Loestrin®

    Fe


 


    Oral contraceptive





    Necon®




 


    Ortho-Novum®,

    Modicon®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Nicotine polacrilex gum



 


    Nicorette®



 


    Aid to smoking cessation





    Oxycodone/acetaminophen



 


    Percocet®



 


    Analgesic





    Potassium XR



 


    Micro-K®



 


    Hypokalemia





    Quasense



 


    Seasonale®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Taztia
    XT®




 


    Tiazac


 


    Anti-hypertensive




TriNessatm



 


    Ortho
    Tri-Cyclen®



 


    Oral contraceptive








 


    Our Global Generic business also receives other revenues
    consisting primarily of royalties and commission revenue. During
    2009, we promoted fentanyl citrate troche on behalf of Cephalon,
    Inc. (“Cephalon”) and received commission revenue
    based on Cephalon’s sales. We also received royalties on
    GlaxoSmithKline’s sales of Wellbutrin
    XL®

    150mg. We also received royalties on sales by Sandoz
    Pharmaceutical Corporation (“Sandoz”), a subsidiary of
    Novartis AG, of metoprolol succinate 50 mg extended release
    tablets. Other revenue totaled $26.4 million for 2009 or
    1.6% of our total Global Generic segment net revenue.


 


    In the U.S., we predominantly market our generic products to
    various drug wholesalers, mail order, government and national
    retail drug and food store chains utilizing 21 sales and
    marketing professionals. We sell our generic prescription
    products primarily under the “Watson Laboratories” and
    “Watson Pharma” labels, with the exception of our
    over-the-counter generic products which we sell under our
    Rugby®

    label or under private label.


 


    During 2009, we expanded our generic product line with the
    launch of 8 generic products. Key launches in 2009 included
    Metoprolol ER 25mg and 50mg,
    NextChoicetm,

    Nicotine Gum Fruit Chill, Nicotine Gum Fresh Mint, Nicotine Gum
    Cinnamon and Galantamine ER.


 


    Watson currently has the leading U.S. market position in
    generic oral contraceptives with over 25 different oral
    contraceptive products and a 36% market share. Our top five oral
    contraceptives
    TriNessa®,

    Low-Ogestrel®,

    Necon®,

    Lutera®

    and
    Microgestin®,

    account for almost 50% of the total Watson oral contraceptives
    portfolio. Key products in the pipeline include
    Yaz®,

    Yasmin®,

    Seasonique®,

    LoSeasonique®

    and generic Tri-Cyclen
    Lo®.





    
    6



Table of Contents






    Operations
    in Key International Markets


 


    Outside the U.S., our operations are primarily in Canada, the
    U.K. and Western Europe. In many of these markets, there is
    limited generic substitution by pharmacists and as a result,
    products are often promoted to pharmacies. Therefore, physician
    and pharmacist loyalty to a specific company’s generic
    product can be a significant factor in obtaining market share.


 



    Canada


 


    Canada’s generics market, with an estimated value of over
    $5 billion, is the eighth largest generic market in the
    world. Generic pharmaceuticals are substituted at the pharmacy.


 


    With the Arrow Acquisition, we now do business in Canada as
    Cobalt Laboratories. We market 49 products and 160 SKUs. In
    Canada, we have 40 sales representatives promoting our products
    to pharmacies. We expect to launch approximately five major
    products in Canada by the end of 2010, including atorvastatin, a
    generic version of
    Lipitor®.



 



    U.K.


 


    The U.K. generics market has an estimated value of over
    $4 billion and is one of the world’s largest in terms
    of both size and generic penetration. The U.K. government has
    direct control over pricing and reimbursement.


 


    With the Arrow Acquisition, we now do business in the U.K. as
    Arrow Generics and currently market 250 different products and
    110 molecules. We also have alliances to assist in the
    distribution of these products. In the U.K., we expect to launch
    approximately nine new products in 2010.


 



    France


 


    France has an estimated generics market value of
    $3.5 billion. The French government regulates and promotes
    generics and incentivizes pharmacists to dispense them. There
    are approximately 23,000 pharmacies in France. It is a strong
    branded generic market where substitution at the pharmacy level
    is limited.


 


    With the Arrow Acquisition, we now do business in France as
    Arrow Generiques and markets 128 different molecules. We have
    over 65 sales representatives calling on the individual
    pharmacies. The generic register is expected to grow with
    doctors incented to prescribe generics.


 


    We expect to launch approximately 17 new products in the French
    market in 2010. There are also a number of brand products losing
    exclusivity between now and the end of 2012, creating future
    opportunities for growth in this market.


 



    Australia


 


    Australia has a sizable generic prescription market of
    approximately $1.3 billion. Regulatory pricing and
    reimbursement are favorable to increased use of generics.


 


    The opportunities for generic product exclusivity in Australia
    are significant. We currently distribute approximately 19
    products primarily through our alliance with Sigma
    Pharmaceuticals.


 



    Generic
    Research and Development


 


    We devote significant resources to the research and development
    (“R&D”) of generic products and proprietary drug
    delivery technologies. Watson incurred Global Generic segment
    R&D expenses of approximately $140.0 million in 2009,
    $119.0 million in 2008 and $102.0 million in 2007. We
    are presently developing a number of generic products through a
    combination of internal and collaborative programs.




    
    7



Table of Contents





    Our Global Generic R&D strategy focuses on the following
    product development areas:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    off-patent drugs that are difficult to develop or manufacture,
    or that complement or broaden our existing product lines;




 



     
        • 

    
    the development of sustained-release and other drug delivery
    technologies and the application of these technologies to
    existing drug forms; and




 



     
        • 

    
    using in-house technologies to develop new products.





 


    As of December 31, 2009, we conducted R&D in Corona,
    California; Davie and Weston, Florida; Copiague, New York; Salt
    Lake City, Utah; Changzhou City, People’s Republic of
    China, Ambernath and Mumbai, India, Mississauga, Canada and
    Melbourne, Australia.


 


    In 2009, our product development efforts resulted in the filing
    of 36 Abbreviated New Drug Applications (“ANDAs”). At
    December 31, 2009, we had more than 100 ANDAs on file. See
    the “Government Regulation and Regulatory Matters”
    section below for a description of our process for obtaining
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”)
    approval for our products. See also “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to our Business —
    Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to
    have, a significant impact on our business, especially our
    product development, manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities.” in this Annual Report.


 



    Global
    Brand Segment


 


    Newly developed pharmaceutical products normally are patented
    and, as a result, are generally offered by a single provider
    when first introduced to the market. We currently market a
    number of branded products to physicians, hospitals, and other
    markets that we serve. We classify these patented and off-patent
    trademarked products as our brand pharmaceutical products.
    During 2009, we launched
    Rapaflo®

    our new alpha-blocker for the treatment of the signs and
    symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (“BPH”) and
    Gelnique®

    a topical gel for the treatment of overactive bladder, which we
    believe may provide greater patient acceptance and compliance
    than current therapies. Net revenues in our Global Brand segment
    accounted for $461.0 million or approximately 16.5% of our
    total net revenues in 2009. Typically, our brand products
    realize higher profit margins than our generic products.


 


    Our portfolio of 30 brand pharmaceutical product families
    includes the following products, which represented approximately
    60% of total Global Brand segment product revenues in 2009:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Watson Brand Product



 



    Active Ingredient



 



    Therapeutic Classification




 






    Androderm®




 


    Testosterone (transdermal patch)


 


    Male testosterone replacement





    Condylox



 


    Podofilox


 


    Antiviral





    Cordran



 


    Flurandrenolide


 


    Corticosteroid





    Fioricet



 


    Butalbital, acetaminophen, caffeine and codeine


 


    Analgesic





    Gelnique®




 


    Oxybutnin Chloride (gel 10)%


 


    Overactive bladder





    INFeD®




 


    Iron dextran


 


    Hematinic





    Norco



 


    Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen


 


    Analgesic





    Oxytrol®




 


    Oxybutnin (transdermal patch)


 


    Overactive bladder





    Rapaflo®




 


    Silodosin


 


    Benign prostatic hyperplasia





    Trelstar®

    DEPOT



 


    Triptorelin pamoate injection


 


    Prostate cancer





    Trelstar®

    LA



 


    Triptorelin pamoate injection


 


    Prostate cancer








 


    We market our brand products through approximately 350 sales
    professionals. Our sales and marketing efforts focus on
    physicians who specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of
    particular medical conditions and





    
    8



Table of Contents





    each group offers products to satisfy the unique needs of these
    physicians. We believe this focused sales and marketing approach
    enables us to foster close professional relationships with
    specialty physicians, as well as cover the primary care
    physicians who also prescribe in selected therapeutic areas. We
    generally sell our brand products under the “Watson
    Pharma” label.


 


    Throughout 2009, Watson’s sales and marketing groups
    targeted selected specialty therapeutic areas because of their
    potential growth opportunities and the size of the physician
    audience. We believe that the nature of these markets and the
    identifiable base of physician prescribers provided us with
    opportunities to achieve significant market penetration through
    our specialized sales forces.


 


    On December 31, 2009, Watson’s license, supply and
    distribution agreements with Sanofi Aventis for
    Ferrlecit®

    expired.


 


    Our Brand Global segment also receives other revenues consisting
    of co-promotion revenue and royalties. We promote
    AndroGel®

    on behalf of Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a wholly owned
    subsidiary of Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Solvay”),
    and
    Femring®

    on behalf of Warner Chilcott. We expect to continue this
    strategy of supplementing our existing brand revenues with
    co-promoted products within our targeted therapeutic areas.
    Other revenue totaled $67.0 million for 2009 or 14.6% of
    our total Global Brand segment net revenue.


 


    Currently, our Global Brand business focuses on products that we
    market to urologists, gynecologists, targeted primary care
    physicians and certain institutions including clinics and
    hospitals. We actively promote
    Rapaflo®,

    Gelnique®,

    Trelstar
    Depot®

    and
    Trelstar®

    LA (collectively
    “Trelstar®”)

    and
    INFeD®.

    We also promote
    AndroGel®

    on behalf of Solvay and
    Femring®on

    behalf of Warner Chilcott Ltd.


 



    Brand
    Research and Development


 


    We devote significant resources to the R&D of brand
    products and proprietary drug delivery technologies. A number of
    our brand products are protected by patents and have enjoyed
    market exclusivity for 5 to 10 years and sometimes even
    longer. We incurred Global Brand segment R&D expenses of
    $57.0 million in 2009, $51.0 million in 2008 and
    $42.0 million in 2007.


 


    Our Global Brand R&D strategy focuses on the following
    product development areas:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the application of proprietary drug-delivery technology for new
    product development in specialty areas; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the acquisition of mid-to-late development-stage brand drugs.





 


    We are presently developing a number of brand products, some of
    which utilize novel drug-delivery systems, through a combination
    of internal and collaborative programs. In connection with the
    Arrow Acquisition, we also acquired ownership in Eden, a company
    involved in the research and development of biologics.


 


    Products in the brand pipeline include a six month formulation
    of
    Trelstar®,

    Uracyst®,

    for the treatment of cystitis and a new formulation of Androderm
    2nd Generation for the treatment of male testosterone
    replacement therapy. We also have a number of women’s
    health products in development, including two novel oral
    contraceptives with New Drug Applications (“NDA”)
    pending and two novel long-acting contraceptives in late stage
    development.


 



    Brand
    Business Development


 


    In 2009, we entered into agreements with Warner Chilcott, Ltd.
    for our Brand sales force to promote
    Femring®

    to gynecologists in the U.S. We also licensed an oral
    contraceptive from Warner Chilcott Ltd. that is currently under
    FDA review.


 



    Distribution
    Segment


 


    Our Distribution business, which consists of our Anda, Anda
    Pharmaceuticals and Valmed (also known as “VIP”)
    subsidiaries (collectively “Anda”), primarily
    distributes generic and selected brand pharmaceutical





    
    9



Table of Contents





    products to independent pharmacies, alternate care providers
    (hospitals, nursing homes and mail order pharmacies), pharmacy
    chains and physicians’ offices. Additionally, we sell to
    members of buying groups, which are independent pharmacies that
    band together to enhance their buying power. We believe that we
    are able to effectively compete in the distribution market, and
    therefore optimize our market share, based on three critical
    elements: (i) competitive pricing, (ii) responsive
    customer service that includes, among other things, next day
    delivery to the entire U.S. and high levels of inventory
    for approximately 8,000 SKUs, and (iii) well established
    telemarketing relationships with our customers, supplemented by
    our electronic ordering capabilities. While we purchase most of
    the approximate 8,000 SKUs in our Distribution operations from
    third party manufacturers, we also utilize these operations for
    the sale and marketing of our own products, and our
    collaborative partners’ products. We are the only
    U.S. pharmaceutical company that has meaningful
    distribution operations with direct access to independent
    pharmacies and we believe that our Distribution operation is a
    strategic asset in the national distribution of generic and
    brand pharmaceuticals.


 


    Revenue growth in our distribution operations will primarily be
    dependent on the launch of new products, offset by the overall
    level of net price and unit declines on existing distributed
    products and will be subject to changes in market share.


 


    We presently distribute products from our facilities in Weston,
    Florida and Groveport, Ohio. For the year ended
    December 31, 2009, approximately 66% of our Distribution
    sales were shipped from our Groveport, Ohio facility and 34%
    from our Weston, Florida facility, though this percentage can
    vary. While our Weston, Florida facility is operating at 70%
    capacity, our 355,000 square foot Ohio distribution center
    currently operates at approximately 35% capacity, and provides
    us with additional distribution capacity for the
    U.S. market.


 



    Strategic
    Alliances and Collaborations


 


    In 2004, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with
    Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (“Kissei”) to develop
    and market
    Rapaflo®

    for the North American market. The compound was originally
    developed and launched by Kissei in Japan as
    Urief®

    and is marketed in Japan in cooperation with Daiichi Sankyo
    Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. for the treatment of the signs and
    symptoms of BPH.


 


    In October 2006, we entered into an agreement with Solvay to
    utilize Watson’s Brand sales force to co-promote
    AndroGel®

    to urologists in the U.S.


 


    Through a R&D and supply agreement with Takeda Chemical
    Industries, Ltd. (“Takeda”), we provide contract
    R&D and manufacturing services to develop a combination
    product consisting of Takeda’s
    Actos®

    (pioglitazone) and our extended-release metformin, which is
    administered once a day for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes. We
    are responsible for the formulation and manufacture of this
    combination product and Takeda is responsible for obtaining
    regulatory approval of and marketing this combination product,
    both in the U.S. and in other countries. Takeda received
    approval for its Acto plus MET XR product in 2009.


 



    Financial
    Information About Segments


 


    Watson evaluates the performance of its Global Generics, Global
    Brand and Distribution business segments based on net revenues
    and net contribution. Summarized net revenues and contribution
    information for each of the last three fiscal years, where
    applicable, is presented in “NOTE 13 —
    Operating Segments” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 



    Customers


 


    In our Global Generic and Global Brand operations, we sell our
    generic and brand pharmaceutical products primarily to drug
    wholesalers, retailers and distributors, including national
    retail drug and food store chains, hospitals, clinics, mail
    order, government agencies and managed healthcare providers such
    as health maintenance organizations and other institutions. In
    our Distribution business, we distribute generic and certain
    select brand pharmaceutical products to independent pharmacies,
    members of buying groups, alternate care providers (hospitals,
    nursing homes and mail order pharmacies), pharmacy chains and
    physicians’ offices.




    
    10



Table of Contents





    Sales to certain of our customers accounted for 10% or more of
    our annual net revenues during the past three years. The
    following table illustrates those customers and the respective
    percentage of our net revenues for which they account:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Customer



 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 



 






    Walgreen Co. 



 


 


    13


    %


 


 


    11


    %


 


 


    11


    %





    McKesson Corporation



 


 


    11


    %


 


 


    11


    %


 


 


    12


    %








 


    McKesson and certain of our other customers comprise a
    significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical
    products in the U.S. As a result, a small number of large,
    wholesale distributors and large chain drug stores control a
    significant share of the market. This concentration may
    adversely impact pricing and create other competitive pressures
    on drug manufacturers. Our Distribution business competes
    directly with our large wholesaler customers with respect to the
    distribution of generic products.


 


    The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risk Relating to Investing in the
    Pharmaceutical Industry” in this Annual Report.


 



    Competition


 


    The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. In our Global
    Generic and Global Brand product operations, we compete with
    different companies depending upon product categories, and
    within each product category, upon dosage strengths and drug
    delivery systems. Such competitors include the major brand name
    and generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical products. In
    addition to product development, other competitive factors in
    the pharmaceutical industry include product quality and price,
    reputation and service and access to proprietary and technical
    information. It is possible that developments by others will
    make our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.


 


    Competing in the brand product business requires us to identify
    and bring to market new products embodying technological
    innovations. Successful marketing of brand products depends
    primarily on the ability to communicate their effectiveness,
    safety and value to healthcare professionals in private
    practice, group practices and receive formulary status from
    managed care organizations. We anticipate that our brand product
    offerings will support our existing areas of therapeutic focus.
    Based upon business conditions and other factors, we regularly
    reevaluate our business strategies and may from time to time
    reallocate our resources from one therapeutic area to another,
    withdraw from a therapeutic area or add an additional
    therapeutic area in order to maximize our overall growth
    opportunities. Our competitors in brand products include major
    brand name manufacturers of pharmaceuticals. Based on total
    assets, annual revenues and market capitalization, our Global
    Brand segment is considerably smaller than many of these
    competitors and other global competitors in the brand product
    area. Many of our competitors have been in business for a longer
    period of time, have a greater number of products on the market
    and have greater financial and other resources than we do. If we
    directly compete with them for certain contracted business, such
    as the Pharmacy Benefit Manager business, and for the same
    markets
    and/or
    products, their financial strength could prevent us from
    capturing a meaningful share of those markets.


 


    We actively compete in the generic pharmaceutical industry.
    Revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic
    pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on
    certain regulatory and competitive factors. As patents and
    regulatory exclusivity for brand name products expire or are
    successfully challenged, the first off-patent manufacturer to
    receive regulatory approval for generic equivalents of such
    products is generally able to achieve significant market
    penetration. As competing off-patent manufacturers receive
    regulatory approvals on similar products, market share, revenues
    and gross profit typically declines, in some cases dramatically.
    Accordingly, the level of market share, revenues and gross
    profit attributable to a particular generic product normally is
    related to the number of competitors in that product’s
    market and the timing of that product’s regulatory approval
    and launch, in relation to competing approvals and launches.
    Consequently,





    
    11



Table of Contents





    we must continue to develop and introduce new products in a
    timely and cost-effective manner to maintain our revenues and
    gross profit. In addition to competition from other generic drug
    manufacturers, we face competition from brand name companies in
    the generic market. Many of these companies seek to participate
    in sales of generic products by, among other things,
    collaborating with other generic pharmaceutical companies or by
    marketing their own generic equivalent to their brand products
    as Authorized Generics. Our major competitors in generic
    products include Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd., Mylan
    Inc. and Sandoz (a division of Novartis AG). See
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related to
    Our Business — The pharmaceutical industry is highly
    competitive.” in this Annual Report.


 


    In our Distribution business, we compete with a number of large
    wholesalers and other distributors of pharmaceuticals, including
    McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal
    Health, Inc., which distribute both brand and generic
    pharmaceutical products to their customers. These same companies
    are significant customers of our Global Generic and Global Brand
    pharmaceutical businesses. As generic products generally have
    higher gross margins than brand products for a pharmaceutical
    distribution business, each of the large wholesalers, on an
    increasing basis, are offering pricing incentives on brand
    products if the customers purchase a majority of their generic
    pharmaceutical products from the primary wholesaler. As we do
    not offer a broad portfolio of brand products to our customers,
    we are at times competitively disadvantaged and must compete
    with these wholesalers based upon our very competitive pricing
    for generic products, greater service levels and our
    well-established telemarketing relationships with our customers,
    supplemented by our electronic ordering capabilities.
    Additionally, generic manufacturers are increasingly marketing
    their products directly to drug store chains with warehousing
    facilities and thus increasingly bypassing wholesalers and
    distributors. Increased competition in the generic industry as a
    whole may result in increased price erosion in the pursuit of
    market share.


 



    Manufacturing,
    Suppliers and Materials


 


    During 2009, we manufactured many of our own finished products
    at our plants in Corona, California; Davie, Florida; Goa, India;
    Carmel, New York; Copiague, New York and Salt Lake City, Utah.
    As part of an ongoing effort to optimize our manufacturing
    operations, we have implemented several cost reduction
    initiatives, which included the transfer of several solid dosage
    products from our Carmel, New York facility to our Goa, India
    facility, and the ongoing implementation of our Global Supply
    Chain Initiative at certain of our U.S. manufacturing
    facilities.


 


    We have development and manufacturing capabilities for raw
    material and active pharmaceutical ingredients (“API”)
    and intermediate ingredients to support our internal product
    development efforts in our Goa and Ambernath, India facilities.
    Our Ambernath, India facility also develops and manufactures API
    for third parties.


 


    Arrow Group adds three manufacturing facilities to the
    Company’s manufacturing operations with plants in Canada,
    Malta and Brazil.


 


    Our manufacturing operations are subject to extensive regulatory
    oversight and could be interrupted at any time. Our Corona,
    California facility is currently subject to a consent decree of
    permanent injunction. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to Our Business —
    Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to
    have, a significant impact on our business, especially our
    product development, manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities.” Also refer to Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    We contract with third parties for the manufacture of certain of
    our products, some of which are currently available only from
    sole or limited suppliers. These third-party manufactured
    products include products that have historically accounted for a
    significant portion of our revenues, such as bupropion
    hydrochloride sustained-release tablets and a number of our oral
    contraceptive products. Third-party manufactured products
    accounted for approximately 53%, 58% and 57% of our product net
    revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.




    
    12



Table of Contents





    We are dependent on third parties for the supply of the raw
    materials necessary to develop and manufacture our products,
    including the API and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients used
    in our products. We are required to identify the supplier(s) of
    all the raw materials for our products in the drug applications
    that we file with the FDA. If raw materials for a particular
    product become unavailable from an approved supplier specified
    in a drug application, we would be required to qualify a
    substitute supplier with the FDA, which would likely interrupt
    manufacturing of the affected product. To the extent
    practicable, we attempt to identify more than one supplier in
    each drug application. However, some raw materials are available
    only from a single source and, in some of our drug applications,
    only one supplier of raw materials has been identified, even in
    instances where multiple sources exist.


 


    In addition, we obtain a significant portion of our raw
    materials from foreign suppliers. Arrangements with
    international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other
    things, FDA regulation, customs clearance, various import
    duties, foreign currency risk and other government clearances.
    Acts of governments outside the U.S. may affect the price
    or availability of raw materials needed for the development or
    manufacture of our products. In addition, any changes in patent
    laws in jurisdictions outside the U.S. may make it
    increasingly difficult to obtain raw materials for R&D
    prior to the expiration of the applicable U.S. or foreign
    patents. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks
    Related to Our Business — If we are unable to obtain
    sufficient supplies from key suppliers that in some cases may be
    the only source of finished products or raw materials, our
    ability to deliver our products to the market may be
    impeded.” in this Annual Report.


 


    We continue to make substantial progress on our Global Supply
    Chain Initiative and the transfer of product manufacturing from
    our New York facility to our Florida, California, and Goa, India
    sites. At the end of 2009, approximately 20% of our internally
    sourced manufactured product was produced from our Goa, India
    facility. By the end of 2010, we plan to close our New York
    solid dosage manufacturing facility. Additionally, we continue
    to implement operational efficiency programs at our
    manufacturing sites.


 



    Patents
    and Proprietary Rights


 


    We believe patent protection of our proprietary products is
    important to our Global Brand business. Our success with our
    brand products will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain,
    and successfully defend if challenged, patent or other
    proprietary protection for such products. We currently have a
    number of U.S. and foreign patents issued or pending.
    However, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its
    validity or as to the enforceable scope of the claims of the
    patent. Accordingly, our patents may not prevent other companies
    from developing similar or functionally equivalent products or
    from successfully challenging the validity of our patents. If
    our patent applications are not approved or, even if approved,
    if such patents are circumvented or not upheld in a court of
    law, our ability to competitively market our patented products
    and technologies may be significantly reduced. Also, such
    patents may or may not provide competitive advantages for their
    respective products or they may be challenged or circumvented by
    competitors, in which case our ability to commercially market
    these products may be diminished. From time to time, we may need
    to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held
    by third parties to develop, manufacture and market our
    products. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on
    commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially
    market such products may be inhibited or prevented.


 


    We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we
    seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements
    with our partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is
    possible that these agreements will be breached or will not be
    enforceable in every instance, and we will not have adequate
    remedies for any such breach. It is also possible that our trade
    secrets will otherwise become known or independently developed
    by competitors.


 


    We may find it necessary to initiate litigation to enforce our
    patent rights, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to
    determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of
    others. Litigation concerning patents, trademarks, copyrights
    and proprietary technologies can often be protracted and
    expensive and, as with litigation generally, the outcome is
    inherently uncertain.


 


    Pharmaceutical companies with brand products are increasingly
    suing companies that produce off-patent forms of their brand
    name products for alleged patent infringement or other
    violations of intellectual property





    
    13



Table of Contents





    rights which may delay or prevent the entry of such a generic
    product into the market. For instance, when we file an ANDA in
    the U.S. seeking approval of a generic equivalent to a brand
    drug, we may certify under the Drug Price Competition and Patent
    Restoration Act of 1984 (the “Hatch-Waxman Act”) to
    the FDA that we do not intend to market our generic drug until
    any patent listed by the FDA as covering the brand drug has
    expired, in which case, the ANDA will be approved by the FDA no
    earlier than the expiration or final finding of invalidity of
    such patent(s). On the other hand, we could certify that we
    believe the patent or patents listed as covering the brand drug
    are invalid
    and/or will
    not be infringed by the manufacture, sale or use of our generic
    form of the brand drug. In that case, we are required to notify
    the brand product holder or the patent holder that such patent
    is invalid or is not infringed. If the patent holder sues us for
    patent infringement within 45 days from receipt of the
    notice, the FDA is then prevented from approving our ANDA for
    30 months after receipt of the notice unless the lawsuit is
    resolved in our favor in less time or a shorter period is deemed
    appropriate by a court. In addition, increasingly aggressive
    tactics employed by brand companies to delay generic
    competition, including the use of Citizen Petitions and seeking
    changes to U.S. Pharmacopeia, have increased the risks and
    uncertainties regarding the timing of approval of generic
    products.


 


    Litigation alleging infringement of patents, copyrights or other
    intellectual property rights may be costly and time consuming.
    See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related
    to Our Business — Third parties may claim that we
    infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent us from
    manufacturing and selling some of our products.” in this
    Annual Report.


 


    Because a balanced and fair legislative and regulatory arena is
    critical to the pharmaceutical industry, we will continue to
    devote management time and financial resources on government
    activities. We currently maintain an office and staff a
    full-time government affairs function in Washington, D.C.
    that maintains responsibility for keeping abreast of state and
    federal legislative activities.


 



    Government
    Regulation and Regulatory Matters


 


    All pharmaceutical manufacturers, including Watson, are subject
    to extensive, complex and evolving regulation by the federal
    government, principally the FDA, and to a lesser extent, by the
    U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”),
    Occupational Safety and Health Administration and state
    government agencies, as well as by varying regulatory agencies
    in foreign countries where our products or product candidates
    are being manufactured
    and/or
    marketed. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the
    Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and
    regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing,
    packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval,
    advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products.
    In our international markets, the approval, manufacture and sale
    of pharmaceutical products is similar to the United States with
    some variations dependent upon local market dynamics.


 


    FDA approval is required before any dosage form of any new drug,
    including an off-patent equivalent of a previously approved
    drug, can be marketed. The process for obtaining governmental
    approval to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products is
    rigorous, time-consuming and costly, and the extent to which it
    may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments
    cannot be predicted. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other
    governmental approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and
    shipping new products. Consequently, there is always the risk
    the FDA or another applicable agency will not approve our new
    products, or the rate, timing and cost of obtaining such
    approvals will adversely affect our product introduction plans
    or results of operations. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — If
    we are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new
    products, our operating results will suffer.” and
    “— Extensive industry regulation has had, and
    will continue to have, a significant impact on our business,
    especially our product development, manufacturing and
    distribution capabilities.” in this Annual Report.


 


    All applications for FDA approval must contain information
    relating to product formulation, raw material suppliers,
    stability, manufacturing processes, packaging, labeling and
    quality control. There are generally two types of applications
    for FDA approval that would be applicable to our new products:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    NDA.  We file a NDA when we seek approval for
    drugs with active ingredients
    and/or with
    dosage strengths, dosage forms, delivery systems or
    pharmacokinetic profiles that have not been previously








    
    14



Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    approved by the FDA. Generally, NDAs are filed for newly
    developed brand products or for a new dosage form of previously
    approved drugs.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    ANDA.  We file an ANDA when we seek approval
    for off-patent, or generic equivalents of a previously approved
    drug.





 


    The process required by the FDA before a previously unapproved
    pharmaceutical product may be marketed in the
    U.S. generally involves the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    preclinical laboratory and animal tests;




 



     
        • 

    
    submission of an investigational new drug application
    (“IND”), which must become effective before clinical
    trials may begin;




 



     
        • 

    
    adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish
    the safety and efficacy of the proposed product for its intended
    use;




 



     
        • 

    
    submission of a NDA containing the results of the preclinical
    and clinical trials establishing the safety and efficacy of the
    proposed product for its intended use; and




 



     
        • 

    
    FDA approval of a NDA.





 


    Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of the product,
    its chemistry, formulation and stability, as well as animal
    studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the
    product. For products that require NDA approvals, these
    preclinical studies and plans for initial human testing are
    submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become
    effective before we may begin human clinical trials. The IND
    automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by
    the FDA unless the FDA, during that
    30-day
    period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the
    trials as outlined in the IND. In such cases, the IND sponsor
    and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before
    clinical trials can begin. In addition, an independent
    Institutional Review Board must provide oversight to review and
    approve any clinical study at the medical center proposing to
    conduct the clinical trials.


 


    Human clinical trials are typically conducted in sequential
    phases:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Phase I. During this phase, the drug is initially
    introduced into a relatively small number of healthy human
    subjects or patients and is tested for safety, dosage tolerance,
    absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion.




 



     
        • 

    
    Phase II.  This phase involves studies in a
    limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects
    and safety risks, to determine the efficacy of the product for
    specific targeted diseases or conditions, and to determine
    dosage tolerance and optimal dosage.




 



     
        • 

    
    Phase III.  When Phase II evaluations
    demonstrate that a dosage range of the product is effective and
    has an acceptable safety profile, Phase III trials are
    undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and to
    further test for safety in an expanded patient population at
    geographically dispersed clinical study sites.




 



     
        • 

    
    Phase IV.  After a drug has been approved by
    the FDA, Phase IV studies may be conducted to explore
    additional patient populations, compare the drug to a
    competitor, or to further study the risks, benefits and optimal
    use of a drug. These studies may be a requirement as a condition
    of the initial approval.





 


    The results of product development, preclinical studies and
    clinical studies are then submitted to the FDA as part of a NDA,
    for approval of the marketing and commercial shipment of the new
    product. The NDA drug development and approval process currently
    averages approximately five to ten years.


 


    FDA approval of an ANDA is required before we may begin
    marketing an off-patent or generic equivalent of a drug that has
    been approved under an NDA, or a previously unapproved dosage
    form of a drug that has been approved under an NDA. The ANDA
    approval process generally differs from the NDA approval process
    in that it does not typically require new preclinical and
    clinical studies; instead, it relies on the clinical studies
    establishing safety and efficacy conducted for the previously
    approved NDA drug. The ANDA process,





    
    15



Table of Contents





    however, typically requires data to show that the ANDA drug is
    bioequivalent (i.e., therapeutically equivalent) to the
    previously approved drug. “Bioequivalence” compares
    the bioavailability of one drug product with another and, when
    established, indicates whether the rate and extent of absorption
    of a generic drug in the body are substantially equivalent to
    the previously approved drug. “Bioavailability”
    establishes the rate and extent of absorption, as determined by
    the time dependent concentrations of a drug product in the
    bloodstream needed to produce a therapeutic effect. The ANDA
    drug development and approval process generally takes less time
    than the NDA drug development and approval process since the
    ANDA process does not require new clinical trials establishing
    the safety and efficacy of the drug product.


 


    Supplemental NDAs or ANDAs are required for, among other things,
    approval to transfer certain products from one manufacturing
    site to another and may be under review for a year or more. In
    addition, certain products may only be approved for transfer
    once new bioequivalency studies are conducted or other
    requirements are satisfied.


 


    To obtain FDA approval of both NDAs and ANDAs, our manufacturing
    procedures and operations must conform to FDA quality system and
    control requirements generally referred to as current Good
    Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”), as defined in
    Title 21 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations.
    These regulations encompass all aspects of the production
    process from receipt and qualification of components to
    distribution procedures for finished products. They are evolving
    standards; thus, we must continue to expend substantial time,
    money and effort in all production and quality control areas to
    maintain compliance. The evolving and complex nature of
    regulatory requirements, the broad authority and discretion of
    the FDA, and the generally high level of regulatory oversight
    results in the continuing possibility that we may be adversely
    affected by regulatory actions despite our efforts to maintain
    compliance with regulatory requirements.


 


    We are subject to the periodic inspection of our facilities,
    procedures and operations
    and/or the
    testing of our products by the FDA, the DEA and other
    authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to assess
    compliance with applicable regulations. In addition, in
    connection with its review of our applications for new products,
    the FDA conducts pre-approval and post-approval reviews and
    plant inspections to determine whether our systems and processes
    comply with cGMP and other FDA regulations. Among other things,
    the FDA may withhold approval of NDAs, ANDAs or other product
    applications of a facility if deficiencies are found at that
    facility. Vendors that supply finished products or components to
    us that we use to manufacture, package and label products are
    subject to similar regulation and periodic inspections.


 


    Following such inspections, the FDA may issue notices on
    Form 483 and Warning Letters that could cause us to modify
    certain activities identified during the inspection. A
    Form 483 notice is generally issued at the conclusion of an
    FDA inspection and lists conditions the FDA investigators
    believe may violate cGMP or other FDA regulations. FDA
    guidelines specify that a Warning Letter be issued only for
    violations of “regulatory significance” for which the
    failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be
    expected to result in an enforcement action.


 


    Our Corona, California facility is currently subject to a
    consent decree of permanent injunction. See also
    “Manufacturing, Suppliers and Materials” discussion
    above, “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks
    Related to Our Business — Extensive industry
    regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant
    impact on our business, especially our product development,
    manufacturing and distribution capabilities.” and Legal
    Matters in “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations
    can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures,
    recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of
    production
    and/or
    distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of NDAs, ANDAs
    or other product application enforcement actions, injunctions
    and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA
    also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug
    approvals. Although we have internal compliance programs, if
    these programs do not meet regulatory agency standards or if our
    compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could
    have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our
    Business — Extensive industry regulation has had, and
    will continue to have, a significant impact on our business,
    especially our product development, manufacturing and
    distribution capabilities.” in this Annual Report.




    
    16



Table of Contents





    The Generic Drug Enforcement Act of 1992 established penalties
    for wrongdoing in connection with the development or submission
    of an ANDA. Under this Act, the FDA has the authority to
    permanently or temporarily bar companies or individuals from
    submitting or assisting in the submission of an ANDA, and to
    temporarily deny approval and suspend applications to market
    generic drugs. The FDA may also suspend the distribution of all
    drugs approved or developed in connection with certain wrongful
    conduct
    and/or
    withdraw approval of an ANDA and seek civil penalties. The FDA
    can also significantly delay the approval of any pending NDA,
    ANDA or other regulatory submissions under the Fraud, Untrue
    Statements of Material Facts, Bribery and Illegal Gratuities
    Policy Act.


 


    U.S. Government reimbursement programs include Medicare,
    Medicaid, TriCare, and State Pharmacy Assistance Programs
    established according to statute, government regulations and
    policy. Federal law requires that all pharmaceutical
    manufacturers, as a condition of having their products receive
    federal reimbursement under Medicaid, must pay rebates to state
    Medicaid programs on units of their pharmaceuticals that are
    dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries. The required
    per-unit
    rebate is currently 11% of the average manufacturer price for
    products marketed under ANDAs. For products marketed under NDAs,
    manufacturers are required to rebate the greater of 15.1% of the
    average manufacturer price, or the difference between the
    average manufacturer price and the lowest net sales price to a
    non-government customer during a specified period. In some
    states, supplemental rebates are additionally required as a
    condition of including the manufacturer’s drug on the
    state’s Preferred Drug List.


 


    The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization
    Act of 2003 (the “MMA”) requires that manufacturers
    report data to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
    (“CMS”) on pricing of drugs and biologicals reimbursed
    under Medicare Part B. These are generally drugs, such as
    injectable products, that are administered “incident
    to” a physician service, and in general are not
    self-administered. Effective January 1, 2005, average
    selling price (“ASP”) became the basis for
    reimbursement to physicians and suppliers for drugs and
    biologicals covered under Medicare Part B, replacing the
    average wholesale price (“AWP”) provided and published
    by pricing services. In general, we must comply with all
    reporting requirements for any drug or biological that is
    separately reimbursable under Medicare. Watson’s
    INFeD®

    and
    Trelstar®

    products are reimbursed under Medicare Part B and, as a
    result, we provide ASP data on these products to CMS on a
    quarterly basis.


 


    As a result, under Part D of the MMA, some Medicare
    beneficiaries are eligible to obtain subsidized prescription
    drug coverage from private sector providers. Usage of
    pharmaceuticals has increased as a result of the expanded access
    to medicines afforded by the Medicare prescription drug benefit.
    However, such sales increases have been offset by increased
    pricing pressures due to the enhanced purchasing power of the
    private sector providers who negotiate on behalf of Medicare
    beneficiaries. It is anticipated that further pricing pressures
    will continue into 2010 and beyond.


 


    The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) mandated a
    number of changes in the Medicaid Program. On July 6, 2007,
    the CMS published the Medicaid Program: Prescription Drugs Final
    Rule (the “Rule”) to implement certain sections of the
    DRA. The Rule provides new requirements for calculating Average
    Manufacturers Price (“AMP”) to be used for reimbursing
    pharmacies that dispense generic drugs under the Medicaid
    Program, and a schedule to publish monthly and quarterly AMP
    data on a public web site, beginning in December 2007. The new
    definition of AMP could significantly reduce pharmacy
    reimbursement for Medicaid covered drugs, which could adversely
    impact generic drug manufacturers for a variety of reasons,
    particularly if pharmacies demand lower prices. The publication
    of AMP data could disrupt the marketplace for generic drugs
    because AMP, as calculated under the Rule, does not necessarily
    represent the actual retail cost of generic drug products. On
    December 14, 2007, the United States District Court for the
    District of Columbia issued a preliminary injunction that bars
    CMS from implementing the Rule, including the AMP data
    publication provisions and the new requirements for calculating
    AMP. However, the duration of the injunction is uncertain, and
    the enforceability of the Rule is still under review by the
    District Court. If the District or Appellate Court rules in
    favor of CMS, or if the injunction is lifted and CMS enforces
    the Rule as currently written, our results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely
    affected.




    
    17



Table of Contents





    There has been enhanced political attention, governmental
    scrutiny and litigation at the federal and state levels of the
    prices paid or reimbursed for pharmaceutical products under
    Medicaid, Medicare and other government programs. See
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related to
    Our Business — Investigations of the calculation of
    average wholesale prices may adversely affect our
    business.” and Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    In order to assist us in commercializing products, we have
    obtained from government authorities and private health insurers
    and other organizations, such as Health Maintenance
    Organizations (“HMOs”) and Managed Care Organizations
    (“MCOs”), authorization to receive reimbursement at
    varying levels for the cost of certain products and related
    treatments. Third party payers increasingly challenge pricing of
    pharmaceutical products. The trend toward managed healthcare in
    the U.S., the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and
    legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government
    insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of
    pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a
    reduction in product demand. Such cost containment measures and
    healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell our products
    and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results
    of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Due to the
    uncertainty surrounding reimbursement of newly approved
    pharmaceutical products, reimbursement may not be available for
    some of our products. Additionally, any reimbursement granted
    may not be maintained or limits on reimbursement available from
    third-party payers may reduce the demand for, or negatively
    affect the price of, those products.


 


    Federal, state, local and foreign laws of general applicability,
    such as laws regulating working conditions, also govern us. In
    addition, we are subject, as are all manufacturers generally, to
    numerous and increasingly stringent federal, state and local
    environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other
    things, the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
    treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous substances and the
    discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Environmental
    permits and controls are required for some of our operations,
    and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and
    revocation by the issuing authorities. Our environmental capital
    expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase
    in the future as a result of changes in environmental laws and
    regulations or increased manufacturing activities at any of our
    facilities. We could be adversely affected by any failure to
    comply with environmental laws, including the costs of
    undertaking a
    clean-up at
    a site to which our wastes were transported.


 


    As part of the MMA, companies are required to file with the
    U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and the
    Department of Justice certain types of agreements entered into
    between brand and generic pharmaceutical companies related to
    the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic versions of brand
    drugs. This requirement could affect the manner in which generic
    drug manufacturers resolve intellectual property litigation and
    other disputes with brand pharmaceutical companies, and could
    result generally in an increase in private-party litigation
    against pharmaceutical companies. The impact of this
    requirement, and the potential private-party lawsuits associated
    with arrangements between brand name and generic drug
    manufacturers, is uncertain and could adversely affect our
    business. For example, in January 2009 the FTC and the State of
    California filed a lawsuit against us alleging that our
    settlement with Solvay related to our ANDA for a generic version
    of
    Androgel®

    is unlawful. In February 2009 several private parties purporting
    to represent various classes of plaintiffs filed similar
    lawsuits. Additionally, we have received requests for
    information, in the form of civil investigative demands or
    subpoenas, from the FTC, and are subject to ongoing FTC
    investigations, concerning our settlement with Cephalon related
    to our ANDA for a generic version of
    Provigil®,

    and our agreement with Sandoz to relinquish our Hatch-Waxman Act
    marketing exclusivity on our ANDA for a 50 mg generic
    version of Toprol
    XL®.

    Any adverse outcome of these investigations or actions could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows. See
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related to
    Our Business— Federal regulation of arrangements
    between manufacturers of brand and generic products could
    adversely affect our business.” Also refer to Legal
    Matters in “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.




    
    18



Table of Contents





    Continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and
    efficacy of pharmaceuticals and other health care products are
    being conducted by industry, government agencies and others.
    Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods
    and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety
    and efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases
    have resulted, and may in the future result, in the
    discontinuance of their marketing.


 


    Our Distribution operations and our customers are subject to
    various regulatory requirements, including requirements from the
    DEA, FDA, and state boards of pharmacy and city and county
    health regulators, among others. These include licensing,
    registration, recordkeeping, security and reporting
    requirements. In particular, several states and the federal
    government have begun to enforce anti-counterfeit drug pedigree
    laws which require the tracking of all transactions involving
    prescription drugs beginning with the manufacturer, through the
    supply chain, and down to the pharmacy or other health care
    provider dispensing or administering prescription drug products.
    For example, effective July 1, 2006, the Florida Department
    of Health began enforcement of the drug pedigree requirements
    for distribution of prescription drugs in the State of Florida.
    Pursuant to Florida law and regulations, wholesalers and
    distributors, including our subsidiary, Anda Pharmaceuticals,
    are required to maintain records documenting the chain of
    custody of prescription drug products they distribute beginning
    with the purchase of such products from the manufacturer. These
    entities are required to provide documentation of the prior
    transaction(s) to their customers in Florida, including
    pharmacies and other health care entities. Several other states
    have proposed or enacted legislation to implement similar or
    more stringent drug pedigree requirements. In addition, federal
    law requires that a “non-authorized distributor of
    record” must provide a drug pedigree documenting the prior
    purchase of a prescription drug from the manufacturer or from an
    “authorized distributor of record.” In cases where the
    wholesaler or distributor selling the drug product is not deemed
    an “authorized distributor of record” it would need to
    maintain such records. The FDA had announced its intent to
    impose additional drug pedigree requirements (e.g., tracking of
    lot numbers and documentation of all transactions) through
    implementation of drug pedigree regulations which were to have
    taken effect on December 1, 2006. However, a federal
    appeals court has issued a preliminary injunction to several
    wholesale distributors granting an indefinite stay of these
    regulations pending a challenge to the regulations by these
    wholesale distributors.


 


    In connection with the Arrow Acquisition on December 2,
    2009, Watson agreed to divest two overlapping products and
    agreed to divest a subsidiary of the Arrow Group that
    manufactures one of the overlapping products in order to abide
    by the terms of the FTC Decision and Order (the
    “Order”) which became final in January 2010. Failure
    to abide by the terms of the Order, which expires in January
    2020, could result in, among other things, civil penalties. All
    such divestitures were completed in 2009.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign
    environmental laws and regulations. We believe that our
    operations comply in all material respects with applicable
    environmental laws and regulations in each jurisdiction where we
    have a business presence. Although we continue to make capital
    expenditures for environmental protection, we do not anticipate
    any significant expenditures in order to comply with such laws
    and regulations that would have a material impact on our
    earnings or competitive position. We are not aware of any
    pending litigation or significant financial obligations arising
    from current or past environmental practices that are likely to
    have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We
    cannot assure you, however, that environmental problems relating
    to facilities owned or operated by us will not develop in the
    future, and we cannot predict whether any such problems, if they
    were to develop, could require significant expenditures on our
    part. In addition, we are unable to predict what legislation or
    regulations may be adopted or enacted in the future with respect
    to environmental protection and waste disposal.




    
    19



Table of Contents






    Seasonality


 


    There are no significant seasonal aspects to our business.


 



    Backlog


 


    Due to the relatively short lead-time required to fill orders
    for our products, backlog of orders is not material to our
    business.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    5,830 employees. Of our employees, approximately 850 are
    engaged in R&D, 1,830 in manufacturing, 980 in quality
    assurance and quality control, 1,290 in sales, marketing and
    distribution, and 880 in administration. We believe our
    relations with our employees are good.




    
    20



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 



    CAUTIONARY
    NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS


 


    Any statements made in this report that are not statements of
    historical fact or that refer to estimated or anticipated future
    events are forward-looking statements. We have based our
    forward-looking statements on management’s beliefs and
    assumptions based on information available to our management at
    the time these statements are made. Such forward-looking
    statements reflect our current perspective of our business,
    future performance, existing trends and information as of the
    date of this filing. These include, but are not limited to, our
    beliefs about future revenue and expense levels and growth
    rates, prospects related to our strategic initiatives and
    business strategies, including the integration of, and synergies
    associated with, strategic acquisitions, express or implied
    assumptions about government regulatory action or inaction,
    anticipated product approvals and launches, business initiatives
    and product development activities, assessments related to
    clinical trial results, product performance and competitive
    environment, and anticipated financial performance. Without
    limiting the generality of the foregoing, words such as
    “may,” “will,” “expect,”
    “believe,” “anticipate,” “intend,”
    “could,” “would,” “estimate,”
    “continue,” or “pursue,” or the negative
    or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, are
    intended to identify forward-looking statements. The statements
    are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain
    risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to
    predict. We caution the reader that these statements are based
    on certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which
    are beyond our control. In addition, certain important factors
    may affect our actual operating results and could cause such
    results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by
    forward-looking statements. We believe the risks and
    uncertainties discussed under the section entitled “Risks
    Related to Our Business,” and other risks and uncertainties
    detailed herein and from time to time in our SEC filings, may
    cause our actual results to vary materially than those
    anticipated in any forward-looking statement.


 


    We disclaim any obligation to publicly update any
    forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
    information, future events or otherwise, except as required by
    law. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 


    We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a
    number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The
    following discussion highlights some of these risks and others
    are discussed elsewhere in this annual report. These and other
    risks could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Risks
    Associated With Investing In the Business of Watson


 



    Our
    operating results and financial condition may
    fluctuate.


 


    Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from
    quarter to quarter and year to year for a number of reasons. The
    following events or occurrences, among others, could cause
    fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    development of new competitive products or generics by others;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing and receipt of approvals by  the FDA and other
    regulatory authorities, including foreign regulatory
    authorities;




 



     
        • 

    
    the failure to obtain, delay in obtaining or restrictions or
    limitations on approvals from the FDA or other foreign
    regulatory authorities;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties or delays in resolving FDA-observed deficiencies at
    our manufacturing facilities, which could delay our ability to
    obtain approvals of pending FDA product applications;







    
    21



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    delays or failures in clinical trials that affect our ability to
    achieve FDA approvals or approvals from other foreign regulatory
    authorities;




 



     
        • 

    
    serious or unexpected health or safety concerns with our
    products or product candidates;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the amount we spend to develop, acquire or license
    new products, technologies or businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the amount we spend to promote our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    delays between our expenditures to acquire new products,
    technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from
    those acquired products, technologies or businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in treatment practices of physicians that currently
    prescribe our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in coverage and reimbursement policies of health plans
    and other health insurers, including changes that affect newly
    developed or newly acquired products;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in laws and regulations concerning coverage and
    reimbursement of pharmaceutical products, including changes to
    Medicare, Medicaid, and similar state programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    manufacturing and supply interruptions, including failure to
    comply with manufacturing specifications;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effect of economic changes in hurricane, earthquake and
    other natural disaster-affected areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impact of third party patents and other intellectual
    property rights which we may be found to infringe, or may be
    required to license, and the potential damages or other costs we
    may be required to pay as a result of a finding that we infringe
    such intellectual property rights or a decision that we are
    required to obtain a license to such intellectual property
    rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    the mix of products that we sell during any time period;




 



     
        • 

    
    lower than expected demand for our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    our responses to price competition;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to successfully integrate and commercialize the
    products, technologies and businesses, including Arrow Group, we
    acquire or license, as applicable;




 



     
        • 

    
    expenditures as a result of legal actions;




 



     
        • 

    
    market acceptance of our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impairment and write-down of goodwill or other intangible
    assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    disposition of our primary products, technologies and other
    rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    termination or expiration of, or the outcome of disputes
    relating to, trademarks, patents, license agreements and other
    rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in insurance rates for existing products and the cost of
    insurance for new products;




 



     
        • 

    
    general economic and industry conditions, including changes in
    interest rates affecting returns on cash balances and
    investments that affect customer demand;




 



     
        • 

    
    our level of R&D activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairment or write-down of investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    costs and outcomes of any tax audits;







    
    22



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    costs and outcomes of any litigation involving intellectual
    property, drug pricing or reimbursement, customers or other
    issues;




 



     
        • 

    
    timing of revenue recognition related to licensing agreements
    and/or
    strategic collaborations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    risks related to the growth of our business across numerous
    countries world-wide and the inherent international business
    risks.





 


    As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our
    results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and these
    comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future
    performance. The above factors may cause our operating results
    to fluctuate and adversely affect our financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    If we
    are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new
    products, our operating results will suffer.


 


    Our future results of operations will depend to a significant
    extent upon our ability to successfully develop and
    commercialize new brand and generic products in a timely manner.
    There are numerous difficulties in developing and
    commercializing new products, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    developing, testing and manufacturing products in compliance
    with regulatory standards in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to receive requisite regulatory approvals for such
    products in a timely manner or at all;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability, on commercially reasonable terms, of raw
    materials, including API and other key ingredients;




 



     
        • 

    
    developing and commercializing a new product is time consuming,
    costly and subject to numerous factors, including legal actions
    brought by our competitors, that may delay or prevent the
    development and commercialization of new products;




 



     
        • 

    
    experiencing delays or unanticipated costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    experiencing delays as a result of limited resources at FDA or
    other regulatory agencies;




 



     
        • 

    
    changing review and approval policies and standards at FDA and
    other regulatory agencies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    commercializing generic products may be substantially delayed by
    the listing with the FDA of patents that have the effect of
    potentially delaying approval of the generic product by up to
    30 months.





 


    As a result of these and other difficulties, products currently
    in development by us may or may not receive timely regulatory
    approvals, or approvals at all, necessary for marketing by us or
    other third-party partners. This risk particularly exists with
    respect to the development of proprietary products because of
    the uncertainties, higher costs and lengthy time frames
    associated with research and development of such products and
    the inherent unproven market acceptance of such products.
    Additionally, we face heightened risks in connection with our
    development of extended release or controlled release generic
    products because of the technical difficulties and regulatory
    requirements related to such products. If any of our products
    are not timely approved or, when acquired or developed and
    approved, cannot be successfully manufactured or timely
    commercialized, our operating results could be adversely
    affected. We cannot guarantee that any investment we make in
    developing products will be recouped, even if we are successful
    in commercializing those products.


 



    Our
    brand pharmaceutical expenditures may not result in commercially
    successful products.


 


    Developing and commercializing brand pharmaceutical products is
    generally more costly than generic products. In the future, we
    anticipate continuing our product development expenditures for
    our Global Brand business segment. For example in November 2008,
    the FDA accepted for filing a NDA for a six month formulation of
    our
    Trelstar®

    (triptorelin for injection) product for prostate cancer and its
    review is ongoing. We cannot be sure these or other business
    expenditures will result in the successful discovery,
    development or launch of brand products that will prove to be
    commercially successful or will





    
    23



Table of Contents





    improve the long-term profitability of our business. If such
    business expenditures do not result in successful discovery,
    development or launch of commercially successful brand products
    our results of operations and financial condition could be
    materially adversely affected.


 



    If we
    do not successfully integrate Arrow Group into our business
    operations, our business will be adversely
    affected.


 


    We will need to successfully integrate the operations of Arrow
    Group, which we acquired on December 2, 2009, with our
    business operations in order to obtain the benefits we expect
    from that acquisition. Integrating the operations of Arrow Group
    with that of our own is a complex and time-consuming process.
    Prior to the acquisition of Arrow Group, Arrow Group operated
    independently, with its own business, corporate culture,
    locations, employees and systems. There may be substantial
    difficulties, costs and delays involved in any integration of
    the business of Arrow Group with that of our own. These may
    include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    distracting management from day-to-day operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential incompatibility of corporate cultures;




 



     
        • 

    
    an inability to achieve synergies as planned;




 



     
        • 

    
    consolidating sales and marketing operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased difficulties in managing our business due to the
    addition of international locations;




 



     
        • 

    
    retaining existing customers and attracting new customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    retaining key employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming
    operations and assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating
    the operations of the combined company; and




 



     
        • 

    
    making any necessary modifications to operating control
    standards to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the
    rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.





 


    Many of these risks are accentuated because Arrow Group’s
    operations, employees and customers are largely located outside
    of the U.S. Any one or all of these factors may increase
    operating costs or lower anticipated financial performance. Many
    of these factors are also outside of our control. As a
    non-public,
    non-U.S. company,
    Arrow Group has not had to comply with the requirements of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for internal control and other
    procedures. Bringing its systems into compliance with those
    requirements may cause us to incur substantial additional
    expense. Achieving anticipated synergies and the potential
    benefits underlying our reasons for the Arrow Acquisition will
    depend on successful integration of the businesses. The failure
    to integrate the business operations of Arrow Group successfully
    would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Any
    acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses, may be
    difficult to integrate, could adversely affect our relationships
    with key customers, and/or could result in significant charges
    to earnings.


 


    We regularly review potential acquisitions of technologies,
    products and businesses complementary to our business.
    Acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in
    difficulties in integrating operations, personnel, technologies
    and products. If we are not able to successfully integrate our
    acquisitions, we may not obtain the advantages and synergies
    that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows, our ability to develop and
    introduce new products and the market price of our stock. In
    addition, in connection with acquisitions, we could experience
    disruption in our business, technology and information systems,
    customer or employee base, including diversion of
    management’s attention from our continuing operations.
    There is also a risk that key employees of companies that we
    acquire or key employees necessary to successfully commercialize





    
    24



Table of Contents





    technologies and products that we acquire may seek employment
    elsewhere, including with our competitors. Furthermore, there
    may be overlap between our products or customers and the
    companies that we acquire that may create conflicts in
    relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated
    businesses. For example, in our Distribution business, our main
    competitors are McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen
    Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc. These companies are
    significant customers of our generic and brand operations and
    who collectively accounted for approximately 29% of our annual
    net revenues in 2009. Our activities related to our Distribution
    business, as well as the acquisition of other businesses that
    compete with our customers, may result in the disruption of our
    business, which could harm relationships with our current
    customers, employees or suppliers, and could adversely affect
    our expenses, pricing, third-party relationships and revenues.


 


    In addition, as a result of acquiring businesses or products, or
    entering into other significant transactions, we have
    experienced, and will likely continue to experience, significant
    charges to earnings for merger and related expenses. These costs
    may include substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys,
    accountants and financial printing costs and severance and other
    closure costs associated with the elimination of duplicate or
    discontinued products, operations and facilities. Charges that
    we may incur in connection with acquisitions could adversely
    affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or
    annual periods.


 



    If we
    are unsuccessful in our joint ventures and other collaborations,
    our operating results could suffer.


 


    We have made substantial investments in joint ventures and other
    collaborations and may use these and other methods to develop or
    commercialize products in the future. These arrangements
    typically involve other pharmaceutical companies as partners
    that may be competitors of ours in certain markets. In many
    instances, we will not control these joint ventures or
    collaborations or the commercial exploitation of the licensed
    products, and cannot assure you that these ventures will be
    profitable. Although restrictions contained in certain of these
    programs have not had a material adverse impact on the marketing
    of our own products to date, any such marketing restrictions
    could affect future revenues and have a material adverse effect
    on our operations. Our results of operations may suffer if
    existing joint venture or collaboration partners withdraw, or if
    these products are not timely developed, approved or
    successfully commercialized.


 



    If we
    are unable to adequately protect our technology or enforce our
    patents, our business could suffer.


 


    Our success with the brand products that we develop will depend,
    in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for these
    products. We currently have a number of U.S. and foreign
    patents issued and pending. However, issuance of a patent is not
    conclusive evidence of its validity or enforceability. We cannot
    be sure that we will receive patents for any of our pending
    patent applications or any patent applications we may file in
    the future, or that our issued patents will be upheld if
    challenged. If our current and future patent applications are
    not approved or, if approved, our patents are not upheld in a
    court of law if challenged, it may reduce our ability to
    competitively exploit our patented products. Also, such patents
    may or may not provide competitive advantages for their
    respective products or they may be challenged or circumvented by
    our competitors, in which case our ability to commercially
    market these products may be diminished.


 


    We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we
    seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements
    with our partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is
    possible that these agreements will be breached or that they
    will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not
    have adequate remedies for any such breach. It is also possible
    that our trade secrets will become known or independently
    developed by our competitors.


 


    If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade
    secrets or propriety know-how, or enforce our patents, our
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could
    suffer.




    
    25



Table of Contents






    If
    pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of
    generics through their legislative, regulatory and other
    efforts, our sales of generic products may suffer.


 


    Many pharmaceutical companies increasingly have used state and
    federal legislative and regulatory means to delay generic
    competition. These efforts have included:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    pursuing new patents for existing products which may be granted
    just before the expiration of earlier patents, which could
    extend patent protection for additional years or otherwise delay
    the launch of generics;




 



     
        • 

    
    selling the brand product as an Authorized Generic, either by
    the brand company directly, through an affiliate or by a
    marketing partner;




 



     
        • 

    
    using the Citizen Petition process to request amendments to FDA
    standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    seeking changes to U.S. Pharmacopeia, an organization which
    publishes industry recognized compendia of drug standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    attaching patent extension amendments to non-related federal
    legislation;




 



     
        • 

    
    engaging in
    state-by-state
    initiatives to enact legislation that restricts the substitution
    of some generic drugs, which could have an impact on products
    that we are developing; and




 



     
        • 

    
    seeking patents on methods of manufacturing certain API.





 


    If pharmaceutical companies or other third parties are
    successful in limiting the use of generic products through these
    or other means, our sales of generic products may decline. If we
    experience a material decline in generic product sales, our
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will
    suffer.


 



    If
    competitors are successful in limiting competition for certain
    generic products through their legislative, regulatory and
    litigation efforts, our sales of certain generic products may
    suffer.


 


    Certain of our competitors have recently challenged our ability
    to distribute Authorized Generics during the competitors’
    180-day
    period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act. Under the
    challenged arrangements, we have obtained rights to market and
    distribute under a brand manufacturer’s NDA a generic
    alternative of the brand product. Some of our competitors have
    challenged the propriety of these arrangements by filing Citizen
    Petitions with the FDA, initiating lawsuits alleging violation
    of the antitrust and consumer protection laws, and seeking
    legislative intervention. For example, in February 2009,
    legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate that would
    prohibit the marketing of Authorized Generics during the
    180-day
    period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act. Further,
    the DRA added provisions to the Medicaid Rebate Program that,
    effective January 1, 2007, may have the effect of
    increasing an NDA holder’s Medicaid Rebate liability if it
    permits another manufacturer to market an Authorized Generic
    version of its brand product. This may affect the willingness of
    brand manufacturers to continue arrangements, or enter into
    future arrangements, permitting us to market Authorized Generic
    versions of their brand products. If so, or if distribution of
    Authorized Generic versions of brand products is otherwise
    restricted or found unlawful, our results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely
    affected.


 



    From
    time to time we may need to rely on licenses to proprietary
    technologies, which may be difficult or expensive to
    obtain.


 


    We may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary
    rights held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market
    products. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on
    commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially
    market our products may be inhibited or prevented, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.




    
    26



Table of Contents






    Third
    parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and
    may prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our
    products.


 


    The manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the
    subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of
    substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These
    lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or
    proprietary rights of third parties. We may have to defend
    against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights
    of third parties. This is especially true in the case of generic
    products on which the patent covering the brand product is
    expiring, an area where infringement litigation is prevalent,
    and in the case of new brand products where a competitor has
    obtained patents for similar products. Litigation may be costly
    and time-consuming, and could divert the attention of our
    management and technical personnel. In addition, if we infringe
    on the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop,
    manufacture or market products or could be required to pay
    monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from
    third parties. For example, we are engaged in litigation with
    Duramed Pharmaceuticals concerning whether our
    Quasensetm

    product infringes Duramed’s U.S. Patent Number RE
    39,861, and we continue to manufacture and market our
    Quasensetm

    product during the pendency of the litigation. Although the
    parties to patent and intellectual property disputes in the
    pharmaceutical industry have often settled their disputes
    through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated
    with these arrangements may be substantial and could include
    ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the
    necessary licenses would be available to us on commercially
    reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, an adverse
    determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or
    failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from
    manufacturing and selling a number of our products, and could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Our
    distribution operations are highly dependent upon a primary
    courier service.


 


    Product deliveries within our Distribution business are highly
    dependent on overnight delivery services to deliver our products
    in a timely and reliable manner, typically by overnight service.
    Our Distribution business ships a substantial portion of
    products via one courier’s air and ground delivery service.
    If the courier terminates our contract or if we cannot renew the
    contract on favorable terms or enter into a contract with an
    equally reliable overnight courier to perform and offer the same
    service level at similar or more favorable rates, our business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could
    be materially adversely affected.


 



    Our
    distribution operations concentrate on generic products and
    therefore are subject to the risks of the generic
    industry.


 


    The ability of our Distribution business to provide consistent,
    sequential quarterly growth is affected, in large part, by our
    participation in the launch of new products by generic
    manufacturers and the subsequent advent and extent of
    competition encountered by these products. This competition can
    result in significant and rapid declines in pricing with a
    corresponding decrease in net sales of our Distribution
    business. Our margins can also be affected by the risks inherent
    to the generic industry, which are discussed below under
    “Risks Relating To Investing In the Pharmaceutical
    Industry.”


 



    If we
    are unable to obtain sufficient supplies from key manufacturing
    sites or suppliers that in some cases may be the only source of
    finished products or raw materials, our ability to deliver our
    products to the market may be impeded.


 


    We are required to identify the supplier(s) of all the raw
    materials for our products in our applications with the FDA. To
    the extent practicable, we attempt to identify more than one
    supplier in each drug application. However, some products and
    raw materials are available only from a single source and, in
    some of our drug applications, only one supplier of products and
    raw materials or site of manufacture has been identified, even
    in instances where multiple sources exist. Some of these
    products have historically accounted for a significant portion
    of our revenues, such as
    INFed®,

    bupropion sustained release tablets and a significant number of
    our oral contraceptive products. From time to time, certain of
    our manufacturing sites or outside suppliers have experienced
    regulatory or supply-related difficulties that have inhibited
    their ability to deliver





    
    27



Table of Contents





    products and raw materials to us, causing supply delays or
    interruptions. To the extent any difficulties experienced by our
    manufacturing sites or suppliers cannot be resolved or
    extensions of our key supply agreements cannot be negotiated
    within a reasonable time and on commercially reasonable terms,
    or if raw materials for a particular product become unavailable
    from an approved supplier and we are required to qualify a new
    supplier with the FDA, or if we are unable to do so, our profit
    margins and market share for the affected product could decrease
    or be eliminated, as well as delay our development and sales and
    marketing efforts. Such outcomes could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows.


 


    Our manufacturing sites in India, Canada and Malta, and our
    arrangements with foreign suppliers, are subject to certain
    additional risks, including the availability of government
    clearances, export duties, political instability, war, acts of
    terrorism, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the
    transfer of funds. For example, we obtain a significant portion
    of our raw materials from foreign suppliers. Arrangements with
    international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other
    things, FDA and foreign regulatory body regulation, customs
    clearances, various import duties and other government
    clearances, as well as potential shipping delays due to
    inclement weather, strikes or other matters outside of our
    control. Acts of governments outside the U.S. may affect
    the price or availability of raw materials needed for the
    development or manufacture of our products. In addition, recent
    changes in patent laws in jurisdictions outside the
    U.S. may make it increasingly difficult to obtain raw
    materials for R&D prior to the expiration of the applicable
    U.S. or foreign patents.


 



    Our
    policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and
    marketing programs adopted by wholesalers, may reduce our
    revenues in future fiscal periods.


 


    Consistent with industry practice we, like many generic product
    manufacturers, have liberal return policies and have been
    willing to give customers post-sale inventory allowances. Under
    these arrangements, from time to time, we may give our customers
    credits on our generic products that our customers hold in
    inventory after we have decreased the market prices of the same
    generic products. Therefore, if new competitors enter the
    marketplace and significantly lower the prices of any of their
    competing products, we may reduce the price of our product. As a
    result, we may be obligated to provide significant credits to
    our customers who are then holding inventories of such products,
    which could reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period
    the credit is provided. Like our competitors, we also give
    credits for chargebacks to wholesale customers that have
    contracts with us for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing
    organizations, pharmacies or other retail customers. A
    chargeback represents an amount payable in the future to a
    wholesaler for the difference between the invoice price paid to
    us by our wholesale customer for a particular product and the
    negotiated contract price that the wholesaler’s customer
    pays for that product. Although we establish reserves based on
    our prior experience and our best estimates of the impact that
    these policies may have in subsequent periods, we cannot ensure
    that our reserves are adequate or that actual product returns,
    allowances and chargebacks will not exceed our estimates, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations, financial condition, cash flows and the market price
    of our stock.


 



    Investigations
    of the calculation of average wholesale prices may adversely
    affect our business.


 


    Many government and third-party payers, including Medicare,
    Medicaid, HMOs and MCOs, have historically reimbursed, or
    continue to reimburse, doctors, pharmacies and others for the
    purchase of certain prescription drugs based on a drug’s
    AWP or wholesale average cost (“WAC”). In the past
    several years, state and federal government agencies have
    conducted ongoing investigations of manufacturers’
    reporting practices with respect to AWP and WAC, in which they
    have suggested that reporting of inflated AWP’s or
    WAC’s have led to excessive payments for prescription
    drugs. For example, beginning in July 2002, we and certain of
    our subsidiaries, as well as numerous other pharmaceutical
    companies, were named as defendants in various state and federal
    court actions alleging improper or fraudulent practices related
    to the reporting of AWP
    and/or WAC
    of certain products, and other improper acts, in order to
    increase prices and market shares. Additional actions are
    anticipated. These actions, if successful, could adversely
    affect us and may have a material adverse





    
    28



Table of Contents





    effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows. See Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to Condensed
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 



    The
    design, development, manufacture and sale of our products
    involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and
    other third parties, and insurance against such potential claims
    is expensive and may be difficult to obtain.


 


    The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products
    involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and the
    associated adverse publicity. Insurance coverage is expensive
    and may be difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the
    future on acceptable terms, or at all. If the coverage limits
    for product liability insurance policies are not adequate, a
    claim brought against us, whether covered by insurance or not,
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    The
    loss of our key personnel could cause our business to
    suffer.


 


    The success of our present and future operations will depend, to
    a significant extent, upon the experience, abilities and
    continued services of key personnel. For example, although we
    have other senior management personnel, a significant loss of
    the services of Paul Bisaro, our Chief Executive Officer, or
    other senior executive officers without hiring a suitable
    successor, could cause our business to suffer. We cannot assure
    you that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel. We
    have entered into employment agreements with the majority of our
    senior executive officers but such agreements do not guarantee
    that our senior executive officers will remain employed by us
    for a significant period of time, or at all. We do not carry
    key-employee life insurance on any of our officers.


 



    Significant
    balances of intangible assets, including product rights and
    goodwill acquired, are subject to impairment testing and may
    result in impairment charges, which will adversely affect our
    results of operations and financial condition.


 


    A significant amount of our total assets is related to acquired
    intangibles and goodwill. As of December 31, 2009, the
    carrying value of our product rights and other intangible assets
    was approximately $1.72 billion and the carrying value of
    our goodwill was approximately $1.65 billion.


 


    Our product rights are stated at cost, less accumulated
    amortization. We determine original fair value and amortization
    periods for product rights based on our assessment of various
    factors impacting estimated useful lives and cash flows of the
    acquired products. Such factors include the product’s
    position in its life cycle, the existence or absence of like
    products in the market, various other competitive and regulatory
    issues and contractual terms. Significant adverse changes to any
    of these factors would require us to perform an impairment test
    on the affected asset and, if evidence of impairment exists, we
    would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to
    the asset. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations and financial condition.


 


    Our other significant intangible assets include acquired core
    technology and customer relationships, which are intangible
    assets with definite lives, and the Anda trade name, which is an
    intangible asset with an indefinite life, as we intend to use
    the Anda trade name indefinitely.


 


    Our acquired core technology and customer relationship
    intangible assets are stated at cost, less accumulated
    amortization. We determined the original fair value of our other
    intangible assets by performing a discounted cash flow analysis,
    which is based on our assessment of various factors. Such
    factors include existing operating margins, the number of
    existing and potential competitors, product pricing patterns,
    product market share analysis, product approval and launch
    dates, the effects of competition, customer attrition rates,
    consolidation within the industry and generic product lifecycle
    estimates. Our other intangible assets with definite lives are
    tested for impairment when there are significant changes to any
    of these factors. Our other intangible assets with indefinite
    lives are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if
    there are significant changes to any of the above factors. If
    evidence of impairment exists, we would be required to take





    
    29



Table of Contents





    an impairment charge with respect to the impaired asset. Such a
    charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial condition.


 


    Goodwill and our Anda trade name intangible asset are tested for
    impairment annually and when events occur or circumstances
    change that could potentially reduce the fair value of the
    reporting unit or intangible asset. Impairment testing compares
    the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset to its
    carrying amount. A goodwill or trade name impairment, if any,
    would be recorded in operating income and could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    We may
    need to raise additional funds in the future which may not be
    available on acceptable terms or at all.


 


    We may consider issuing additional debt or equity securities in
    the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to
    refinance existing debt, or for general corporate purposes. If
    we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise
    additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience
    dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights,
    preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing
    stockholders. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our
    leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity
    capitalization, requiring us to pay additional interest
    expenses. We may not be able to market such issuances on
    favorable terms, or at all, in which case, we may not be able to
    develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take
    advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive
    pressures or unanticipated customer requirements.


 



    Our
    business could suffer as a result of manufacturing difficulties
    or delays.


 


    The manufacture of certain of our products and product
    candidates, particularly our controlled-release products,
    transdermal products, and our oral contraceptive products, is
    more difficult than the manufacture of immediate-release
    products. Successful manufacturing of these types of products
    requires precise manufacturing process controls, API that
    conforms to very tight tolerances for specific characteristics
    and equipment that operates consistently within narrow
    performance ranges. Manufacturing complexity, testing
    requirements, and safety and security processes combine to
    increase the overall difficulty of manufacturing these products
    and resolving manufacturing problems that we may encounter.


 


    Our manufacturing and other processes utilize sophisticated
    equipment, which sometimes require a significant amount of time
    to obtain and install. Our business could suffer if certain
    manufacturing or other equipment, or a portion or all of our
    facilities were to become inoperable for a period of time. This
    could occur for various reasons, including catastrophic events
    such as earthquake, hurricane or explosion, unexpected equipment
    failures or delays in obtaining components or replacements
    thereof, as well as construction delays or defects and other
    events, both within and outside of our control. Our inability to
    timely manufacture any of our significant products could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows.


 



    Our
    substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair
    our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our debt
    obligations. Any refinancing of this substantial debt could be
    at significantly higher interest rates.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we had total debt of approximately
    $1.46 billion. Our substantial indebtedness and other
    financial obligations could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    impair our ability to obtain financing in the future for working
    capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate
    purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with
    financial and affirmative and restrictive covenants in our debt
    agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of a
    failure that is not cured or waived;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    for interest payments on our indebtedness and other financial
    obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow
    to fund working capital and capital expenditures;







    
    30



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the industry in which we operate; and




 



     
        • 

    
    place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that have proportionally less debt.





 


    If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other
    financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or
    refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions,
    seek additional equity capital or sell our assets. We might then
    be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell our assets
    on satisfactory terms, if at all. Any refinancing of our
    indebtedness could be at significantly higher interest rates,
    and/or incur
    significant transaction fees.


 



    Our
    business will continue to expose us to risks of environmental
    liabilities.


 


    Our product and API development programs, manufacturing
    processes and distribution logistics involve the controlled use
    of hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds in our
    owned and leased facilities. As a result, we are subject to
    numerous and increasingly stringent federal, state and local
    environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other
    things, the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
    treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous materials and the
    discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Our programs and
    processes expose us to risks that an accidental contamination
    could result in (i) our noncompliance with such
    environmental laws and regulations and (ii) regulatory
    enforcement actions or claims for personal injury and property
    damage against us. If an accident or environmental discharge
    occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior
    operations, including by prior owners and operators of
    properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup
    obligations, damages and fines. The substantial unexpected costs
    we may incur could have a material and adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash
    flows. In addition, environmental permits and controls are
    required for some of our operations, and these permits are
    subject to modification, renewal and revocation by the issuing
    authorities. Any modification, revocation or non-renewal of our
    environmental permits could have a material adverse effect on
    our ongoing operations, business and financial condition. Our
    environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental
    compliance may increase in the future as a result of changes in
    environmental laws and regulations or increased development or
    manufacturing activities at any of our facilities.


 



    Global
    economic conditions could harm us.


 


    Recent global market and economic conditions have been
    unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and
    recession in most major economies during 2009 and continuing
    into 2010. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of
    potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs,
    geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and
    the global real estate markets have contributed to increased
    market volatility and diminished expectations for western and
    emerging economies. These conditions, combined with volatile oil
    prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased
    unemployment, have contributed to volatility of unprecedented
    levels.


 


    As a result of these market conditions, the cost and
    availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely
    affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads.
    Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the
    strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and
    institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to
    provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have
    resulted in a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers
    alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure
    spending. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and
    international markets and economies and prolonged declines in
    business consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity
    and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial
    condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance
    maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet
    liquidity needs.


 



    Our
    foreign operations may become less attractive if political and
    diplomatic relations between the United States and any country
    where we conduct business operations deteriorates.


 


    The relationship between the United States and the foreign
    countries where we conduct business operations may weaken over
    time. Changes in the state of the relations between any such
    country and the United States are difficult to predict and could
    adversely affect our future operations. This could lead to a





    
    31



Table of Contents





    decline in our profitability. Any meaningful deterioration of
    the political and diplomatic relations between the United States
    and the relevant country could have a material adverse effect on
    our operations.


 



    Our
    global operations expose us to risks and challenges associated
    with conducting business internationally.


 


    We operate on a global basis with offices or activities in
    Europe, Africa, Asia, South America, Australia and North
    America. We face several risks inherent in conducting business
    internationally, including compliance with international and
    U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international
    operations. These laws and regulations include data privacy
    requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition
    regulations, import and trade restrictions, export requirements,
    U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and
    local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental
    officials or certain payments or remunerations to customers.
    Given the high level of complexity of these laws, however, there
    is a risk that some provisions may be inadvertently breached,
    for example through fraudulent or negligent behavior of
    individual employees, our failure to comply with certain formal
    documentation requirements or otherwise. Violations of these
    laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions
    against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on
    the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include
    prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more
    countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand,
    our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and
    retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our
    success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these
    risks and manage these difficulties.


 


    In addition to the foregoing, engaging in international business
    inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements
    and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    political and economic instability;




 



     
        • 

    
    potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, customs charges,
    bureaucratic requirements and other trade barriers;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign
    operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties protecting or procuring intellectual property
    rights.





 


    These factors or any combination of these factors may adversely
    affect our revenue or our overall financial performance.


 



    We
    have exposure to foreign tax liabilities.


 


    As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes
    as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and
    various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required
    in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and
    other tax liabilities. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may
    have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate.
    Recent proposals by the current U.S. administration for
    fundamental U.S. international tax reform, including
    without limitation provisions that would limit the ability of
    U.S. multinationals to defer U.S. taxes on foreign
    income, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on
    our effective tax rate following the Arrow Acquisition.


 



    Foreign
    currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and
    financial results.


 


    We do business and generate sales in numerous countries outside
    the United States. As such, foreign currency fluctuations may
    affect the costs that we incur in such international operations.
    Some of our operating expenses are incurred in
    non-U.S. dollar
    currencies. The appreciation of
    non-U.S. dollar
    currencies in those countries where we have operations against
    the U.S. dollar could increase our costs and could harm our
    results of operations and financial condition.




    
    32



Table of Contents






    Risks
    Relating To Investing In the Pharmaceutical Industry


 



    Extensive
    industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a
    significant impact on our business, especially our product
    development, manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities.


 


    All pharmaceutical companies, including Watson, are subject to
    extensive, complex, costly and evolving government regulation.
    For the U.S., this is principally administered by the FDA and to
    a lesser extent by the DEA and state government agencies, as
    well as by varying regulatory agencies in foreign countries
    where products or product candidates are being manufactured
    and/or
    marketed. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the
    Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and
    regulations, and similar foreign statutes and regulations,
    govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing,
    labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval,
    advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products.


 


    Under these regulations, we are subject to periodic inspection
    of our facilities, procedures and operations
    and/or the
    testing of our products by the FDA, the DEA and other
    authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that
    we are in compliance with all applicable regulations. In
    addition, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies conduct
    pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections to
    determine whether our systems and processes are in compliance
    with cGMP and other regulations. Following such inspections, the
    FDA or other agency may issue observations, notices, citations
    and/or
    Warning Letters that could cause us to modify certain activities
    identified during the inspection. FDA guidelines specify that a
    Warning Letter is issued only for violations of “regulatory
    significance” for which the failure to adequately and
    promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an
    enforcement action. We are also required to report adverse
    events associated with our products to FDA and other regulatory
    authorities. Unexpected or serious health or safety concerns
    would result in labeling changes, recalls, market withdrawals or
    other regulatory actions.


 


    Our manufacturing facility in Corona, California (which
    manufactured products representing approximately 11% of our
    total product net revenues for 2009) is currently subject
    to a consent decree of permanent injunction. We cannot assure
    that the FDA will determine we have adequately corrected
    deficiencies at our Corona manufacturing site, that subsequent
    FDA inspections at any of our manufacturing sites will not
    result in additional inspectional observations at such sites,
    that approval of any of the pending or subsequently submitted
    NDAs, ANDAs or supplements to such applications by Watson or our
    subsidiaries will be granted or that the FDA will not seek to
    impose additional sanctions against Watson or any of its
    subsidiaries. The range of possible sanctions includes, among
    others, FDA issuance of adverse publicity, product recalls or
    seizures, fines, total or partial suspension of production
    and/or
    distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of product
    applications, enforcement actions, injunctions, and civil or
    criminal prosecution. Any such sanctions, if imposed, could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, operating results,
    financial condition and cash flows. Under certain circumstances,
    the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug
    approvals. Similar sanctions as detailed above may be available
    to the FDA under a consent decree, depending upon the actual
    terms of such decree. Although we have instituted internal
    compliance programs, if these programs do not meet regulatory
    agency standards or if compliance is deemed deficient in any
    significant way, it could materially harm our business. Certain
    of our vendors are subject to similar regulation and periodic
    inspections.


 


    The process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture
    and market pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming
    and costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be
    affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We are
    dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental or third-party
    approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping our
    products. Consequently, there is always the chance that we will
    not obtain FDA or other necessary approvals, or that the rate,
    timing and cost of obtaining such approvals, will adversely
    affect our product introduction plans or results of operations.
    We carry inventories of certain product(s) in anticipation of
    launch, and if such product(s) are not subsequently launched, we
    may be required to write off the related inventory.


 


    Our Distribution operations and our customers are subject to
    various regulatory requirements, including requirements from the
    DEA, FDA, state boards of pharmacy and city and county health
    regulators, among others. These include licensing, registration,
    recordkeeping, security and reporting requirements. Although
    physicians may prescribe FDA approved products for an “off
    label” indication, we are permitted to market our products
    only for





    
    33



Table of Contents





    the indications for which they have been approved. Some of our
    products are prescribed off label and FDA or other regulatory
    authorities could take enforcement actions if they conclude that
    we or our distributors have engaged in off label marketing. In
    addition, several states and the federal government have begun
    to enforce anti-counterfeit drug pedigree laws which require the
    tracking of all transactions involving prescription drugs
    beginning with the manufacturer, through the supply chain, and
    down to the pharmacy or other health care provider dispensing or
    administering prescription drug products. For example, effective
    July 1, 2006, the Florida Department of Health began
    enforcement of the drug pedigree requirements for distribution
    of prescription drugs in the State of Florida. Pursuant to
    Florida law and regulations, wholesalers and distributors,
    including our subsidiary, Anda Pharmaceuticals, are required to
    maintain records documenting the chain of custody of
    prescription drug products they distribute beginning with the
    purchase of products from the manufacturer. These entities are
    required to provide documentation of the prior transaction(s) to
    their customers in Florida, including pharmacies and other
    health care entities. Several other states have proposed or
    enacted legislation to implement similar or more stringent drug
    pedigree requirements. In addition, federal law requires that a
    “non-authorized distributor of record” must provide a
    drug pedigree documenting the prior purchase of a prescription
    drug from the manufacturer or from an “authorized
    distributor of record.” In cases where the wholesaler or
    distributor selling the drug product is not deemed an
    “authorized distributor of record” it would need to
    maintain such records. FDA had announced its intent to impose
    additional drug pedigree requirements (e.g., tracking of lot
    numbers and documentation of all transactions) through
    implementation of drug pedigree regulations which were to have
    taken effect on December 1, 2006. However, a federal
    appeals court has issued a preliminary injunction to several
    wholesale distributors granting an indefinite stay of these
    regulations pending a challenge to the regulations by these
    wholesale distributors.


 



    Federal
    regulation of arrangements between manufacturers of brand and
    generic products could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    As part of the MMA, companies are required to file with the FTC
    and the Department of Justice certain types of agreements
    entered into between brand and generic pharmaceutical companies
    related to the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic
    versions of brand drugs. This requirement, as well as new
    legislation pending in U.S. Congress related to settlement
    between brand and generic drug manufacturers, could affect the
    manner in which generic drug manufacturers resolve intellectual
    property litigation and other disputes with brand pharmaceutical
    companies and could result generally in an increase in
    private-party litigation against pharmaceutical companies or
    additional investigations or proceedings by the FTC or other
    governmental authorities. The impact of this requirement, the
    pending legislation and the potential private-party lawsuits
    associated with arrangements between brand name and generic drug
    manufacturers, is uncertain and could adversely affect our
    business. For example, in January 2009 the FTC and the State of
    California filed a lawsuit against us alleging that our
    settlement with Solvay related to our ANDA for a generic version
    of
    Androgel®

    is unlawful. From February through October 2009 numerous private
    parties purporting to represent various classes of plaintiffs
    filed similar lawsuits. Additionally, we have received requests
    for information, in the form of civil investigative demands or
    subpoenas, from the FTC, and are subject to ongoing FTC
    investigations, concerning our settlement with Cephalon related
    to our ANDA for a generic version of
    Provigil®,

    and our agreement with Sandoz, Inc. to relinquish our
    Hatch-Waxman marketing exclusivity on our ANDA for a 50 mg.
    generic version of Toprol
    XL®.

    Similar investigations into settlements and other arrangements
    between competing pharmaceutical companies have been initiated
    by the European Competition Commission. Any adverse outcome of
    these actions or investigations, or actions or investigations
    related to other settlements we have entered into, could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows.


 



    We are
    subject to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws
    which may adversely affect our business.


 


    In the United States, most of our products are reimbursed under
    federal and state health care programs such as Medicaid,
    Medicare, TriCare, and or state pharmaceutical assistance
    programs. Many foreign countries have similar laws. Federal and
    state laws designed to prevent fraud and abuse under these
    programs prohibit pharmaceutical companies from offering
    valuable items or services to customers or potential customers
    to induce them to buy, prescribe, or recommend Watson’s
    product (the so-called “antikickback” laws).
    Exceptions





    
    34



Table of Contents





    are provided for discounts and certain other arrangements if
    specified requirements are met. Other federal and state laws,
    and similar foreign laws, not only prohibit us from submitting
    any false information to government reimbursement programs but
    also prohibit us and our employees from doing anything to cause,
    assist, or encourage our customers to submit false claims for
    payment to these programs. Violations of the fraud and abuse
    laws may result in severe penalties against the responsible
    employees and Watson, including jail sentences, large fines, and
    the exclusion of Watson products from reimbursement under
    federal and state programs. Watson is committed to conducting
    the sales and marketing of its products in compliance with the
    healthcare fraud and abuse laws, but certain applicable laws may
    impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to
    defraud. Furthermore, should there be ambiguity, a governmental
    authority may take a position contrary to a position we have
    taken, or should an employee violate these laws without our
    knowledge, a governmental authority may impose civil
    and/or
    criminal sanctions. For example, in December 2009, we
    learned that numerous pharmaceutical companies, including
    certain subsidiaries of the Company, have been named as
    defendants in a qui tam action pending in the United States
    District Court for the District of Massachusetts alleging that
    the defendants falsely reported to the United States that
    certain pharmaceutical products were eligible for Medicaid
    reimbursement and thereby allegedly caused false claims for
    payment to be made through the Medicaid program. Any adverse
    outcome of this action, or the imposition of penalties or
    sanctions for failing to comply with the fraud and abuse laws,
    could adversely affect us and may have a material adverse effect
    on our business, results of operations, financial condition and
    cash flows. See Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 



    Healthcare
    reform and a reduction in the coverage and reimbursement levels
    by governmental authorities, HMOs, MCOs or other third-party
    payers may adversely affect our business.


 


    Demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which
    coverage and reimbursement is available from third-party payers,
    such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private payors.
    In order to commercialize our products, we have obtained from
    government authorities and private health insurers and other
    organizations, such as HMOs and MCOs, recognition for coverage
    and reimbursement at varying levels for the cost of certain of
    our products and related treatments. Third-party payers
    increasingly challenge pricing of pharmaceutical products.
    Further, the trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S., the
    growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and legislative
    proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs
    create uncertainties regarding the future levels of coverage and
    reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. Such cost containment
    measures and healthcare reform could reduce reimbursement of our
    pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a
    reduction in the product demand. This could affect our ability
    to sell our products and could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, results of operations, financial condition and
    cash flows.


 


    There is uncertainty surrounding implementation of legislation
    involving payments for pharmaceuticals under government programs
    such as Medicare, Medicaid and Tricare. Depending on how
    existing provisions are implemented, for example, those amending
    the methodology for certain payment rates and other computations
    under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program reimbursements may be
    reduced or not be available for some of Watson’s products.
    Additionally, any reimbursement granted may not be maintained or
    limits on reimbursement available from third-party payers may
    reduce demand for, or negatively affect the price of those
    products. Ongoing federal legislative debate regarding
    provisions of overall national Health Care Reform, and the
    implementation of any resulting reform measures by Congress,
    including but not limited to, modification in calculation of
    rebates, mandated financial or other contributions to close the
    Medicare “donut hole”, restrictions on the ability of
    Watson to settle future Hatch-Waxman patent challenge litigation
    for considerations other than date certain commencement of
    generic marketing, and other provisions could have a material
    adverse effect on our business. In addition, various legislative
    and regulatory initiatives in states, including proposed
    modifications to reimbursements and rebates, product pedigree
    and tracking, pharmaceutical waste “take-back”
    initiatives, and therapeutic category generic substitution
    carve-out legislation may also have a negative impact on the
    Company. Watson maintains a full-time government affairs
    department in Washington, DC, which is responsible for
    coordinating state and federal legislative activities, and place
    a major emphasis in terms of management time and resources to
    ensure a fair and balance legislative and regulatory arena.




    
    35



Table of Contents






    The
    pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.


 


    We face strong competition in our Global Generic, Global Brand
    and Distribution businesses. The intensely competitive
    environment requires an ongoing, extensive search for
    technological innovations and the ability to market products
    effectively, including the ability to communicate the
    effectiveness, safety and value of brand products to healthcare
    professionals in private practice, group practices and MCOs. Our
    competitors vary depending upon product categories, and within
    each product category, upon dosage strengths and drug-delivery
    systems. Based on total assets, annual revenues, and market
    capitalization, we are smaller than certain of our national and
    international competitors in the brand and distribution product
    arenas. Most of our competitors have been in business for a
    longer period of time than us, have a greater number of products
    on the market and have greater financial and other resources
    than we do. Furthermore, recent trends in this industry are
    toward further market consolidation of large drug companies into
    a smaller number of very large entities, further concentrating
    financial, technical and market strength and increasing
    competitive pressure in the industry. If we directly compete
    with them for the same markets
    and/or
    products, their financial strength could prevent us from
    capturing a profitable share of those markets. It is possible
    that developments by our competitors will make our products or
    technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.


 


    Revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic
    pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on
    certain regulatory and competitive factors. As patents for brand
    name products and related exclusivity periods expire, the first
    generic manufacturer to receive regulatory approval for generic
    equivalents of such products is generally able to achieve
    significant market penetration. As competing off-patent
    manufacturers receive regulatory approvals on similar products
    or as brand manufacturers launch generic versions of such
    products (for which no separate regulatory approval is
    required), market share, revenues and gross profit typically
    decline, in some cases dramatically. Accordingly, the level of
    market share, revenue and gross profit attributable to a
    particular generic product normally is related to the number of
    competitors in that product’s market and the timing of that
    product’s regulatory approval and launch, in relation to
    competing approvals and launches. Consequently, we must continue
    to develop and introduce new products in a timely and
    cost-effective manner to maintain our revenues and gross
    margins. Additionally, as new competitors enter the market,
    there may be increased pricing pressure on certain products,
    which would result in lower gross margins. This is particularly
    true in the case of certain Asian and other overseas generic
    competitors, who may be able to produce products at costs lower
    than the costs of domestic manufacturers. If we experience
    substantial competition from Asian or other overseas generic
    competitors with lower production costs, our profit margins will
    suffer.


 


    We also face strong competition in our Distribution business,
    where we compete with a number of large wholesalers and other
    distributors of pharmaceuticals, including McKesson Corporation,
    AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., which
    market both brand and generic pharmaceutical products to their
    customers. These companies are significant customers of our
    pharmaceutical business. As generic products generally have
    higher gross margins for distributors, each of the large
    wholesalers, on an increasing basis, are offering pricing
    incentives on brand products if the customers purchase a large
    portion of their generic pharmaceutical products from the
    primary wholesaler. As we do not offer a full line of brand
    products to our customers, we are at times competitively
    disadvantaged and must compete with these wholesalers based upon
    our very competitive pricing for generic products, greater
    service levels and our well-established telemarketing
    relationships with our customers, supplemented by our electronic
    ordering capabilities. The large wholesalers have historically
    not used telemarketers to sell to their customers, but recently
    have begun to do so. Additionally, generic manufacturers are
    increasingly marketing their products directly to smaller chains
    and thus increasingly bypassing wholesalers and distributors.
    Increased competition in the generic industry as a whole may
    result in increased price erosion in the pursuit of market share.


 



    Sales
    of our products may continue to be adversely affected by the
    continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the
    concentration of our customer base.


 


    Our principal customers in our brand and generic pharmaceutical
    operations are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug
    store chains. These customers comprise a significant part of the
    distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the
    U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo
    significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions
    among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail





    
    36



Table of Contents





    drug store chains. As a result, a small number of large
    wholesale distributors and large chain drug stores control a
    significant share of the market. We expect that consolidation of
    drug wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other
    competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including Watson.


 


    For the year ended December 31, 2009, our three largest
    customers accounted for 13%, 11% and 9% respectively, of our net
    revenues. The loss of any of these customers could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows. In addition, none of our
    customers are party to any long-term supply agreements with us,
    and thus are able to change suppliers freely should they wish to
    do so.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B