Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to Our Business” in this
    annual report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”).


 



    Generic
    Segment


 


    Watson is a leader in the development, manufacturing and sale of
    generic pharmaceutical products. When patents or other
    regulatory exclusivity no longer protect a brand product,
    opportunities exist to introduce off-patent or generic
    counterparts to the brand product. These generic products are
    bioequivalent to their brand name counterparts and are generally
    sold at significantly lower prices than the brand product. As
    such, generic



    
    3



Table of Contents




    pharmaceuticals provide an effective and cost-efficient
    alternative to brand products. Our portfolio of generic products
    includes products we have developed internally, products we have
    licensed from third parties and products we distribute for third
    parties.


 


    Net revenues in our Generic segment accounted for
    $1.47 billion or approximately 58% of our total net
    revenues in 2008.


 



    Generic
    Strategy


 


    Our Generic business is currently focused on maintaining a
    leading position within the U.S. generics market by
    offering a consistent and reliable supply of quality generic
    products. Our strategy is to develop generic pharmaceuticals
    that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or will
    complement or broaden our existing product lines. Since the
    prices and unit volumes of our brand products will likely
    decrease upon the introduction of generic alternatives, we also
    intend to market generic alternatives to our brand products
    where market conditions and the competitive environment justify
    such activities. Additionally, we may distribute generic
    versions of third parties’ brand products (sometimes known
    as “Authorized Generics”) to the extent such
    arrangements are complementary to our core business.


 


    We have maintained an ongoing effort to enhance efficiencies and
    reduce costs in our manufacturing operations. Execution of these
    initiatives will allow us to maintain competitive pricing on our
    products. We are also looking to leverage our broad product line
    by expanding our selling and marketing presence outside the
    U.S. We believe a broader sales and marketing presence will
    allow us to expand our revenue base and minimize risk.
    Additionally, we are looking to establish capabilities in
    developing generic biologics through strategic collaborations or
    acquisitions.


 


    Our portfolio of approximately 150 Generic pharmaceutical
    product families includes the following products, which
    represented 60% of total Generic segment net revenues in 2008:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Watson Generic Product



 



    Comparable Brand Name



 



    Therapeutic Classification




 





    Alendronate Sodium



 


    Fosamax®



 


    Osteoporosis preparation





    Bupropion hydrochloride SR



 


    Zyban®



 


    Aid to smoking cessation





    Bupropion hydrochloride SR



 


    Wellbutrin
    SR®



 


    Anti-depressant





    Bupropion hydrochloride XL



 


    Wellbutrin
    XL®



 


    Anti-depressant





    Cartia
    XT®




 


    Cardizem®

    CD


 


    Anti-hypertensive





    Clarithromycin ER



 


    Biaxin®

    XL


 


    Anti-biotic





    Dronabinol



 


    Marinol®



 


    Antiemetic





    Fentanyl transdermal system



 


    Duragesic®



 


    Analgesic/narcotic combination





    Glipizide ER



 


    Glucotrol®

    XL


 


    Anti-diabetic





    Hydrocodone bitartrate/ acetaminophen



 


    Lorcet®,

    Vicodin®,

    
    Lortab®,

    Norco®/Anexia



 


    Analgesic





    Levora®




 


    Nordette®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Low-Ogestrel®




 


    Lo-Ovral®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Lutera®




 


    Alesse®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Microgestin®/Microgestin®

    Fe



 


    Loestrin®/Loestrin®

    Fe


 


    Oral contraceptive





    Necon®




 


    Ortho-Novum®,

    Modicon®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Nicotine polacrilex gum



 


    Nicorette®



 


    Aid to smoking cessation





    Omeprazole DR



 


    Prilosec®



 


    Gastrointestinal agent





    Oxycodone/acetaminophen



 


    Percocet®



 


    Analgesic




TriNessatm



 


    Ortho
    Tri-Cyclen®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Trivora®




 


    Triphasil®



 


    Oral contraceptive








 


    Our Generic Division also receives other revenues consisting
    primarily of royalties and commission revenue. During 2008, we
    received royalties on GlaxoSmithKline’s sales of Wellbutrin
    XL®

    150mg and received royalties on sales by Sandoz Pharmaceutical
    Corporation (“Sandoz”), a subsidiary of Novartis AG,
    of metoprolol succinate 50 mg extended release tablets.
    Additionally, we promote fentanyl citrate troche on



    
    4



Table of Contents




    behalf of Cephalon, Inc. (“Cephalon”) and receive
    commission revenue based on Cephalon’s sales. During 2008,
    we also received a $15.0 million milestone obligation for a
    1999 Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc. (“Schein”) litigation
    settlement with Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Barr”)
    related to Cenestin. Other revenue totaled $70.4 million
    for 2008 or 4.8% of our total Generic segment net revenue.


 


    We predominantly market our generic products to various drug
    wholesalers, mail order, government and national retail drug and
    food store chains utilizing 27 sales and marketing
    professionals. We sell our generic prescription products
    primarily under the “Watson Laboratories” and
    “Watson Pharma” labels, with the exception of our
    over-the-counter generic products which we sell under our
    Rugby®

    label or under private label.


 


    During 2008, we expanded our generic product line with the
    launch of 11 generic products. Key launches in 2008 included
    bupropion hydrochloride XL 150mg tablets, an anti-depressant
    launched in November 2008; omeprazole 40mg delayed-release
    capsules, indicated for short-term treatment of active duodenal
    ulcer, launched in July 2008; dronabinol, indicated to treat
    nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy,
    launched in June 2008; clarithomycin extended-release tablets,
    USP in the 500mg strength, an anti-infective launched in January
    2008 and galantamine hydrobromide extended-release, indicated
    for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease, launched in
    December 2008.


 


    We continue to make progress on our Global Supply Chain
    Initiative and the transfer of product manufacturing from our
    New York facility to our Florida, California, and India sites.
    By the end of 2009, we anticipate
    one-third of
    our manufactured volume will be produced from our Goa, India
    facility. By the end of 2010, we plan to close our New York
    solid dosage manufacturing and warehouse facilities.
    Additionally, we continue to implement operational efficiency
    programs at our manufacturing sites.


 



    Generic
    Research and Development


 


    During 2008, we took measures to enhance our pipeline of generic
    products by discontinuing the development of certain products
    and adding new products to our pipeline. At December 31,
    2008, we had approximately 60 Abbreviated New Drug Applications
    (“ANDAs”) on file. See the “Government Regulation
    and Regulatory Matters” section below for a description of
    our process for obtaining U.S. Food and Drug Administration
    (“FDA”) approval for our products. See also
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related to
    our Business — Extensive industry regulation has had,
    and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business,
    especially our product development, manufacturing and
    distribution capabilities.” in this Annual Report.


 


    We devote significant resources to the research and development
    (“R&D”) of generic products and proprietary drug
    delivery technologies. We incurred Generic segment R&D
    expenses of $119 million in 2008, $102 million in 2007
    and $84 million in 2006. We are presently developing a
    number of generic products through a combination of internal and
    collaborative programs.


 


    Our Generic R&D strategy focuses on the following product
    development areas:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    off-patent drugs that are difficult to develop or manufacture,
    or that complement or broaden our existing product lines;




 



     
        • 

    
    the development of sustained-release and other drug delivery
    technologies and the application of these technologies to
    existing drug forms; and




 



     
        • 

    
    using in-house technologies to develop new products.





 


    As of December 31, 2008, we conducted R&D in Corona,
    California; Davie and Weston, Florida; Copiague, New York; Salt
    Lake City, Utah; Changzhou City, People’s Republic of
    China; and Ambernath and Mumbai, India.



    
    5



Table of Contents





    Generic
    Business Development


 


    In December 2008, we acquired a portfolio of generic
    pharmaceutical products that were divested as a result of the
    merger between Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd.
    (“Teva”) and Barr. The portfolio consists of 17
    products, including 15 FDA-approved products and 2
    development-stage products. Key products in the portfolio
    include cyclosporine capsules and liquid, desmopressin acetate
    tablets, glipizide/metformin HCI tablets, mirtazapine orally
    disintegrating tablets and metoclopramide HCI tablets. We
    acquired the portfolio of existing approved products for an
    upfront payment of $36.0 million and will make additional
    payments to Teva if certain milestones are met on the
    development-stage products. Teva has agreed to supply the
    products to Watson until manufacturing is transferred to Watson
    or a third party.


 



    Brand
    Segment


 


    Newly developed pharmaceutical products normally are patented
    and, as a result, are generally offered by a single provider
    when first introduced to the market. We currently market a
    number of branded products to physicians, hospitals, and other
    markets that we serve. We classify these patented and off-patent
    trademarked products as our brand pharmaceutical products. Net
    revenues in our Brand segment accounted for $455.0 million
    or approximately 18% of our total net revenues in 2008.
    Typically, our brand products realize higher profit margins than
    our generic products.


 


    Our portfolio of 27 Brand pharmaceutical product families
    includes the following products, which represented 76% of total
    Brand segment net revenues in 2008:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Watson Brand Product



 



    Active Ingredient



 



    Therapeutic Classification




 





    Androderm®




 


    Testosterone (transdermal patch)


 


    Male hormone replacement





    Ferrlecit®




 


    Sodium ferric gluconate in sucrose injection


 


    Hematinic





    INFeD®




 


    Iron dextran


 


    Hematinic





    Oxytrol®




 


    Oxybutnin (transdermal patch)


 


    Overactive bladder





    Trelstar®

    DEPOT



 


    Triptorelin pamoate injection


 


    Prostate cancer





    Trelstar®

    LA



 


    Triptorelin pamoate injection


 


    Prostate cancer








 


    We market our brand products through approximately 380 sales
    professionals within our specialized sales and marketing groups.
    Each of our sales and marketing groups focuses on physicians who
    specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of particular medical
    conditions and each group offers products to satisfy the unique
    needs of these physicians. We believe this focused sales and
    marketing approach enables us to foster close professional
    relationships with specialty physicians, as well as cover the
    primary care physicians who also prescribe in selected
    therapeutic areas. We generally sell our brand products under
    the “Watson Pharma” and the
    “Oclassen®

    Dermatologics” labels.


 


    Our sales and marketing groups have targeted selected specialty
    therapeutic areas predominately because of their potential
    growth opportunities and the size of the physician audience. We
    believe that the nature of these markets and the identifiable
    base of physician prescribers provide us with opportunities to
    achieve significant market penetration through our specialized
    sales forces. We intend to continue to expand our brand product
    portfolio through internal product development, strategic
    alliances and acquisitions.


 


    Our Brand segment also receives other revenues consisting of
    co-promotion revenue and royalties. We promote
    AndroGel®

    on behalf of Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a wholly owned
    subsidiary of Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Solvay”)
    and other selected products on behalf of third parties. We also
    record revenue (including the amortization of deferred revenue)
    relating to our obligation to manufacture and supply
    Fortamet®

    and
    Altoprev®

    to Sciele Pharma, Inc. (“Sciele”), a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of Shionogi & Co., Ltd. Other revenue
    totaled $58.0 million for 2008 or 12.7% of our total Brand
    segment net revenue.



    
    6



Table of Contents





    Specialty
    Products


 


    Our Specialty Products product line focuses on products that we
    market to urologists, gynecologists and targeted primary care
    physicians. We actively promote
    Oxytrol®,

    Trelstar
    Depot®

    and
    Trelstar®

    LA (collectively
    “Trelstar®”)

    through this group. We also promote
    AndroGel®

    on behalf of Solvay through this group and, in March 2009, we
    plan to begin co-promoting
    Femring®,

    a product for hormone replacement therapy, on behalf of Warner
    Chilcott Ltd.


 


    In May 2008, we launched
    Mixjecttm,

    a new delivery system for
    Trelstar®

    which offers new features that makes preparation, administration
    and disposal of
    Trelstar®

    easier.


 


    In April 2009, we plan to launch
    Rapaflotm

    (silodosin), our selective alpha-blocker for the treatment of
    the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia
    (“BPH”).


 


    In the second quarter of 2009, we plan to launch
    Gelniquetm

    (oxybutynin chloride gel) 10%, our topical gel for the treatment
    of overactive bladder.


 



    Nephrology


 


    Our Nephrology product line consists of products for the
    treatment of iron deficiency anemia. Our primary products in the
    Nephrology group are
    Ferrlecit®

    and
    INFeD®,

    which are indicated for patients undergoing hemodialysis in
    conjunction with erythropoietin therapy. Regulatory exclusivity
    on
    Ferrlecit®

    ended in August 2004. Additionally, we are currently engaged in
    an expedited arbitration proceeding to resolve a dispute with
    Sanofi Aventis concerning, among other things, the expiration
    date of our rights to market and sell
    Ferrlecit®.

    See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related
    to our Business — Loss of revenues from
    Ferrlecit®,

    a significant product, could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.” in this Annual Report. Also refer to Legal
    Matters in “NOTE 15 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements in this Annual Report.


 



    Brand
    Research and Development


 


    We devote significant resources to the R&D of brand
    products and proprietary drug delivery technologies. A number of
    our brand products are protected by patents and have enjoyed
    market exclusivity for 5 to 10 years and sometimes even
    longer. We incurred Brand segment R&D expenses of
    $51 million in 2008, $42 million in 2007 and
    $47 million in 2006.


 


    Our Brand R&D strategy focuses on the following product
    development areas:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the application of proprietary drug-delivery technology for new
    product development in specialty areas; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the acquisition of mid-to-late development-stage brand drugs.





 


    We are presently developing a number of brand products, some of
    which utilize novel drug-delivery systems, through a combination
    of internal and collaborative programs.


 


    During 2008 we filed a New Drug Application (“NDA”)
    with the FDA for
    Rapaflotm

    our new alpha-blocker for the treatment of the signs and
    symptoms of BPH. In October 2008, our NDA was approved and we
    plan to launch
    Rapaflotm

    in April 2009.


 


    We also filed an NDA for
    Gelniquetm,

    a topical gel for the treatment of overactive bladder which we
    believe may provide greater patient acceptance and compliance
    than current therapies. In January 2009 we received approval of
    our NDA and we anticipate launching
    Gelniquetm

    in the second quarter of 2009. Additional products in the brand
    pipeline include a six month formulation of
    Trelstar®,

    Uracyst, for the treatment of cystitis and a novel oral
    contraceptive, for the preventation of pregnancy.



    
    7



Table of Contents





    Brand
    Business Development


 


    In July 2008, Mylan Inc. acquired Watson’s 50% joint
    venture interest in Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    (“Somerset”). Somerset developed
    Emsam®,

    a transdermal patch for the treatment of major depressive
    disorder, currently marketed in the United States by
    Bristol-Myers Squibb.


 


    In early 2009, we entered into agreements with Warner Chilcott,
    Ltd. for our Specialty Products sales force to promote
    Femring®

    to gynecologists in the U.S. We also licensed an oral
    contraceptive from Warner Chilcott Ltd. that is currently in
    late stage development.


 



    Distribution
    Segment


 


    Our Distribution business, which consists of our Anda, Anda
    Pharmaceuticals and Valmed (also known as “VIP”)
    subsidiaries (collectively “Anda”), primarily
    distributes generic and selected brand pharmaceutical products
    to independent pharmacies, alternate care providers (hospitals,
    nursing homes and mail order pharmacies), pharmacy chains and
    physicians’ offices. Additionally, we sell to members of
    buying groups, which are independent pharmacies that band
    together to enhance their buying power. We believe that we are
    able to effectively compete in the distribution market, and
    therefore optimize our market share, based on three critical
    elements: (i) competitive pricing, (ii) responsive
    customer service that includes, among other things, next day
    delivery to the entire U.S. and high levels of inventory
    for approximately 8,000 SKUs, and (iii) well established
    telemarketing relationships with our customers, supplemented by
    our electronic ordering capabilities. While we purchase most of
    the approximate 8,000 SKUs in our Distribution operations from
    third party manufacturers, we also utilize these operations for
    the sale and marketing of our own products, and our
    collaborative partners’ products. We are the only
    U.S. pharmaceutical company that has meaningful
    distribution operations with direct access to independent
    pharmacies and we believe that our Distribution operation is a
    strategic asset in the national distribution of generic and
    brand pharmaceuticals.


 


    Revenue growth in our Distribution operations will primarily be
    dependent on the launch of new products, offset by the overall
    level of net price and unit declines on existing distributed
    products and will be subject to changes in market share.


 


    In our Distribution operations, we presently distribute products
    from our facilities in Weston, Florida and Groveport, Ohio. For
    the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 60% of our
    Distribution sales were shipped from our Groveport, Ohio
    facility and 40% from our Weston, Florida facility, though this
    percentage can vary. While our Weston, Florida facility is
    operating at 80% capacity, our 355,000 square foot Ohio
    distribution center currently operates at approximately 30%
    capacity, and provides us with additional distribution capacity
    for the foreseeable future.


 



    Strategic
    Alliances and Collaborations


 


    Through collaborative agreements and strategic alliances, we
    develop and manufacture products that are marketed by other
    pharmaceutical companies, including products that utilize our
    patented technologies and formulation capabilities. Pursuant to
    a manufacturing and supply agreement and a license agreement, we
    supply
    Fortamet®

    and
    Altoprev®

    to Sciele.


 


    We have a generic product development alliance with Cipla Ltd.
    (“Cipla”), the second largest pharmaceutical company
    in India. Under the terms of the agreement announced in December
    2002, we share development responsibilities. Watson is
    responsible for conducting bioequivalence studies, pursuing
    regulatory approvals for all developed products and has
    exclusive U.S. marketing rights for the products. Cipla is
    responsible for manufacturing products.


 


    In 2004, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with
    Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (“Kissei”) to develop
    and market
    Rapaflotm

    for the North American market. The compound was originally
    developed and launched by Kissei in Japan as
    Urief®

    and is marketed in Japan in cooperation with Daiichi Sankyo
    Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. for the treatment of the signs and
    symptoms of BPH.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    In October 2006, we entered into an agreement with Solvay to
    utilize Watson’s Specialty Products sales force to
    co-promote
    AndroGel®

    to urologists in the U.S.


 


    Through a R&D and supply agreement with Takeda Chemical
    Industries, Ltd. (“Takeda”), we provide contract
    R&D and manufacturing services to develop a combination
    product consisting of Takeda’s
    Actos®

    (pioglitazone) and our extended-release metformin, which is
    administered once a day for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes. We
    are responsible for the formulation and manufacture of this
    combination product and Takeda is responsible for obtaining
    regulatory approval of and marketing this combination product,
    both in the U.S. and in other countries. Takeda submitted
    an NDA in 2006.


 



    Financial
    Information About Segments


 


    Watson evaluates the performance of its Generic, Brand and
    Distribution business segments based on net revenues, gross
    profit and net contribution. Summarized net revenues, gross
    profit and contribution information for each of the last three
    fiscal years, where applicable, is presented in
    “NOTE 12 — Operating Segments” in the
    accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements” in this Annual Report.


 



    Customers


 


    In our Generic and Brand operations, we sell our generic and
    brand pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers,
    retailers and distributors, including national retail drug and
    food store chains, hospitals, clinics, mail order, government
    agencies and managed healthcare providers such as health
    maintenance organizations and other institutions. In our
    Distribution business, we distribute generic and certain select
    brand pharmaceutical products to independent pharmacies, members
    of buying groups, alternate care providers (hospitals, nursing
    homes and mail order pharmacies), pharmacy chains and
    physicians’ offices.


 


    Sales to certain of our customers accounted for 10% or more of
    our annual net revenues during the past three years. The
    following table illustrates those customers and the respective
    percentage of our net revenues for which they account:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Customer



 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 


 


    2006


 



 





    McKesson Corporation



 


 


    11


    %


 


 


    12


    %


 


 


    17


    %





    Walgreen Co. 



 


 


    11


    %


 


 


    11


    %


 


 


    8


    %





    AmeriSourceBergen Corp. 



 


 


    9


    %


 


 


    9


    %


 


 


    13


    %








 


    Certain of these customers comprise a significant part of the
    distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the
    U.S. In recent years, this distribution network has
    undergone significant consolidation, marked by mergers and
    acquisitions among wholesale distributors and large retail drug
    store chains. As a result, a small number of large, wholesale
    distributors and large chain drug stores control a significant
    share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug
    wholesalers and retailers may adversely impact pricing and
    create other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers. Our
    Distribution business competes directly with our large
    wholesaler customers with respect to the distribution of generic
    products.


 


    The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risk Relating to Investing in the
    Pharmaceutical Industry” in this Annual Report.


 



    Competition


 


    The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. In our
    Generic and Brand product operations, we compete with different
    companies depending upon product categories, and within each
    product category, upon dosage strengths and drug delivery
    systems. Such competitors include the major brand name and
    generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical products. In addition to
    product development, other competitive factors in the
    pharmaceutical industry include product quality and price,
    reputation and service and access to proprietary and technical
    information. It is possible that developments by others will
    make our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.



    
    9



Table of Contents




    Competing in the brand product business requires us to identify
    and bring to market new products embodying technological
    innovations. Successful marketing of brand products depends
    primarily on the ability to communicate their effectiveness,
    safety and value to healthcare professionals in private
    practice, group practices and managed care organizations. We
    anticipate that our brand product offerings will support our
    existing areas of therapeutic focus. Based upon business
    conditions and other factors, we regularly reevaluate our
    business strategies and may from time to time reallocate our
    resources from one therapeutic area to another, withdraw from a
    therapeutic area or add an additional therapeutic area in order
    to maximize our overall growth opportunities. Our competitors in
    brand products include major brand name manufacturers of
    pharmaceuticals. Based on total assets, annual revenues and
    market capitalization, our Brand segment is considerably smaller
    than many of these competitors and other national competitors in
    the brand product area. Many of our competitors have been in
    business for a longer period of time, have a greater number of
    products on the market and have greater financial and other
    resources than we do. If we directly compete with them for the
    same markets
    and/or
    products, their financial strength could prevent us from
    capturing a meaningful share of those markets.


 


    We actively compete in the generic pharmaceutical industry.
    Revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic
    pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on
    certain regulatory and competitive factors. As patents and
    regulatory exclusivity for brand name products expire or are
    successfully challenged, the first off-patent manufacturer to
    receive regulatory approval for generic equivalents of such
    products is generally able to achieve significant market
    penetration. As competing off-patent manufacturers receive
    regulatory approvals on similar products, market share, revenues
    and gross profit typically declines, in some cases dramatically.
    Accordingly, the level of market share, revenues and gross
    profit attributable to a particular generic product normally is
    related to the number of competitors in that product’s
    market and the timing of that product’s regulatory approval
    and launch, in relation to competing approvals and launches.
    Consequently, we must continue to develop and introduce new
    products in a timely and cost-effective manner to maintain our
    revenues and gross profit. In addition to competition from other
    generic drug manufacturers, we face competition from brand name
    companies in the generic market. Many of these companies seek to
    participate in sales of generic products by, among other things,
    collaborating with other generic pharmaceutical companies or by
    marketing their own generic equivalent to their brand products
    as Authorized Generics. Our major competitors in generic
    products include Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd., Mylan
    Inc., Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals Generics (a subsidiary of
    Covidien AG) and Sandoz. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to Our Business —
    The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.” in this
    Annual Report.


 


    In our Distribution business, we compete with a number of large
    wholesalers and other distributors of pharmaceuticals, including
    McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal
    Health, Inc., which distribute both brand and generic
    pharmaceutical products to their customers. These same companies
    are significant customers of our Generic and Brand
    pharmaceutical businesses. As generic products generally have
    higher gross margins than brand products for a pharmaceutical
    distribution business, each of the large wholesalers, on an
    increasing basis, are offering pricing incentives on brand
    products if the customers purchase a large portion of their
    generic pharmaceutical products from the primary wholesaler. As
    we do not offer a broad portfolio of brand products to our
    customers, we are at times competitively disadvantaged and must
    compete with these wholesalers based upon our very competitive
    pricing for generic products, greater service levels and our
    well-established telemarketing relationships with our customers,
    supplemented by our electronic ordering capabilities.
    Additionally, generic manufacturers are increasingly marketing
    their products directly to smaller chains and thus increasingly
    bypassing wholesalers and distributors. Increased competition in
    the generic industry as a whole may result in increased price
    erosion in the pursuit of market share.


 



    Manufacturing,
    Suppliers and Materials


 


    During 2008, we manufactured many of our own finished products
    at our plants in Corona, California; Davie, Florida; Goa, India;
    Carmel, New York; Copiague, New York and Salt Lake City, Utah.
    As part of an ongoing effort to optimize our manufacturing
    operations, we implemented several cost reduction initiatives in
    2008, which included the transfer of several solid dosage
    products from our Carmel, New York facility to our



    
    10



Table of Contents




    Goa, India facility, and the ongoing implementation of our
    operational excellence program at certain of our
    U.S. manufacturing facilities.


 


    We have development and manufacturing capabilities for raw
    material and active pharmaceutical ingredients (“API”)
    and intermediate ingredients to support our internal product
    development efforts in our Goa and Ambernath, India and
    Changzhou, China facilities. Our Ambernath, India facility also
    develops and manufactures API for third parties. We also have an
    equity investment in Scinopharm Taiwan, Ltd., a company that
    specializes in the development and manufacture of API.


 


    Our manufacturing operations are subject to extensive regulatory
    oversight and could be interrupted at any time. Our Corona,
    California facility is currently subject to a consent decree of
    permanent injunction. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to Our Business —
    Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to
    have, a significant impact on our business, especially our
    product development, manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities.” Also refer to Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 15 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    We contract with third parties for the manufacture of certain of
    our products, some of which are currently available only from
    sole or limited suppliers. These third-party manufactured
    products include products that have historically accounted for a
    significant portion of our revenues, such as Ferrlecit
    ®,

    bupropion hydrochloride sustained-release tablets and a number
    of our oral contraceptive products. Third-party manufactured
    products accounted for approximately 58%, 57% and 58% of our
    product net revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and
    56%, 56% and 64% of our gross profit in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.


 


    We are dependent on third parties for the supply of the raw
    materials necessary to develop and manufacture our products,
    including the API and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients used
    in our products. We are required to identify the supplier(s) of
    all the raw materials for our products in the drug applications
    that we file with the FDA. If raw materials for a particular
    product become unavailable from an approved supplier specified
    in a drug application, we would be required to qualify a
    substitute supplier with the FDA, which would likely interrupt
    manufacturing of the affected product. To the extent
    practicable, we attempt to identify more than one supplier in
    each drug application. However, some raw materials are available
    only from a single source and, in some of our drug applications,
    only one supplier of raw materials has been identified, even in
    instances where multiple sources exist.


 


    In addition, we obtain a significant portion of our raw
    materials from foreign suppliers. Arrangements with
    international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other
    things, FDA regulation, customs clearance, various import
    duties, foreign currency risk and other government clearances.
    Acts of governments outside the U.S. may affect the price
    or availability of raw materials needed for the development or
    manufacture of our products. In addition, any changes in patent
    laws in jurisdictions outside the U.S. may make it
    increasingly difficult to obtain raw materials for R&D
    prior to the expiration of the applicable U.S. or foreign
    patents. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks
    Related to Our Business — If we are unable to obtain
    sufficient supplies from key suppliers that in some cases may be
    the only source of finished products or raw materials, our
    ability to deliver our products to the market may be
    impeded.” in this Annual Report.


 



    Patents
    and Proprietary Rights


 


    We believe patent protection of our proprietary products is
    important to our Brand business. Our success with our brand
    products will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain, and
    successfully defend if challenged, patent or other proprietary
    protection for such products. We currently have a number of
    U.S. and foreign patents issued or pending. However, the
    issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or as
    to the enforceable scope of the claims of the patent.
    Accordingly, our patents may not prevent other companies from
    developing similar or functionally equivalent products or from
    successfully challenging the validity of our patents. If our
    patent applications are not approved or, even if approved, if
    such patents are circumvented or not upheld in a court of law,
    our ability to competitively market our patented products and
    technologies may be significantly reduced. Also, such patents
    may or may not provide competitive advantages for their
    respective products or they may be challenged or circumvented by
    competitors, in which case our ability to commercially market
    these products may be diminished. From time to time, we may need
    to obtain licenses to



    
    11



Table of Contents




    patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties to
    develop, manufacture and market our products. If we are unable
    to timely obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable
    terms, our ability to commercially market such products may be
    inhibited or prevented.


 


    We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we
    seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements
    with our partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is
    possible that these agreements will be breached or will not be
    enforceable in every instance, and we will not have adequate
    remedies for any such breach. It is also possible that our trade
    secrets will otherwise become known or independently developed
    by competitors.


 


    We may find it necessary to initiate litigation to enforce our
    patent rights, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to
    determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of
    others. Litigation concerning patents, trademarks, copyrights
    and proprietary technologies can often be protracted and
    expensive and, as with litigation generally, the outcome is
    inherently uncertain.


 


    Pharmaceutical companies with brand products are increasingly
    suing companies that produce off-patent forms of their brand
    name products for alleged patent infringement or other
    violations of intellectual property rights which may delay or
    prevent the entry of such a generic product into the market. For
    instance, when we file an ANDA seeking approval of a generic
    equivalent to a brand drug, we may certify under the Drug Price
    Competition and Patent Restoration Act of 1984 (the
    “Hatch-Waxman Act”) to the FDA that we do not intend
    to market our generic drug until any patent listed by the FDA as
    covering the brand drug has expired, in which case, the ANDA
    will be approved by the FDA no earlier than the expiration or
    final finding of invalidity of such patent(s). On the other
    hand, we could certify that we believe the patent or patents
    listed as covering the brand drug are invalid
    and/or will
    not be infringed by the manufacture, sale or use of our generic
    form of the brand drug. In that case, we are required to notify
    the brand product holder or the patent holder that such patent
    is invalid or is not infringed. If the patent holder sues us for
    patent infringement within 45 days from receipt of the
    notice, the FDA is then prevented from approving our ANDA for
    30 months after receipt of the notice unless the lawsuit is
    resolved in our favor in less time or a shorter period is deemed
    appropriate by a court. In addition, increasingly aggressive
    tactics employed by brand companies to delay generic
    competition, including the use of Citizen Petitions and seeking
    changes to U.S. Pharmacopeia, have increased the risks and
    uncertainties regarding the timing of approval of generic
    products.


 


    Litigation alleging infringement of patents, copyrights or other
    intellectual property rights may be costly and time consuming.
    See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related
    to Our Business — Third parties may claim that we
    infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent us from
    manufacturing and selling some of our products.” in this
    Annual Report.


 


    Because a balanced and fair legislative and regulatory arena is
    critical to the pharmaceutical industry, we will continue to
    devote management time and financial resources on government
    activities. We currently maintain an office and staff a
    full-time government affairs function in Washington, D.C.
    that maintains responsibility for keeping abreast of state and
    federal legislative activities.


 



    Government
    Regulation and Regulatory Matters


 


    All pharmaceutical manufacturers, including Watson, are subject
    to extensive, complex and evolving regulation by the federal
    government, principally the FDA, and to a lesser extent, by the
    U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”),
    Occupational Safety and Health Administration and state
    government agencies, as well as by varying regulatory agencies
    in foreign countries where our products or product candidates
    are being manufactured
    and/or
    marketed. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the
    Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and
    regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing,
    packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval,
    advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products.


 


    FDA approval is required before any dosage form of any new drug,
    including an off-patent equivalent of a previously approved
    drug, can be marketed. The process for obtaining governmental
    approval to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products is
    rigorous, time-consuming and costly, and the extent to which it
    may be



    
    12



Table of Contents




    affected by legislative and regulatory developments cannot be
    predicted. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other
    governmental approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and
    shipping new products. Consequently, there is always the risk
    the FDA or another applicable agency will not approve our new
    products, or the rate, timing and cost of obtaining such
    approvals will adversely affect our product introduction plans
    or results of operations. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — If
    we are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new
    products, our operating results will suffer.” and
    “— Extensive industry regulation has had, and
    will continue to have, a significant impact on our business,
    especially our product development, manufacturing and
    distribution capabilities.” in this Annual Report.


 


    All applications for FDA approval must contain information
    relating to product formulation, raw material suppliers,
    stability, manufacturing processes, packaging, labeling and
    quality control. There are generally two types of applications
    for FDA approval that would be applicable to our new products:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    NDA.  We file a NDA when we seek approval for
    drugs with active ingredients
    and/or with
    dosage strengths, dosage forms, delivery systems or
    pharmacokinetic profiles that have not been previously approved
    by the FDA. Generally, NDAs are filed for newly developed brand
    products or for a new dosage form of previously approved drugs.




 



     
        • 

    
    ANDA.  We file an ANDA when we seek approval
    for off-patent, or generic equivalents of a previously approved
    drug.





 


    The process required by the FDA before a previously unapproved
    pharmaceutical product may be marketed in the
    U.S. generally involves the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    preclinical laboratory and animal tests;




 



     
        • 

    
    submission of an investigational new drug application
    (“IND”), which must become effective before clinical
    trials may begin;




 



     
        • 

    
    adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish
    the safety and efficacy of the proposed product for its intended
    use;




 



     
        • 

    
    submission of a NDA containing the results of the preclinical
    and clinical trials establishing the safety and efficacy of the
    proposed product for its intended use; and




 



     
        • 

    
    FDA approval of a NDA.





 


    Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of the product,
    its chemistry, formulation and stability, as well as animal
    studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the
    product. For products that require NDA approvals, these
    preclinical studies and plans for initial human testing are
    submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become
    effective before we may begin human clinical trials. The IND
    automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by
    the FDA unless the FDA, during that
    30-day
    period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the
    trials as outlined in the IND. In such cases, the IND sponsor
    and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before
    clinical trials can begin. In addition, an independent
    Institutional Review Board must provide oversight to review and
    approve any clinical study at the medical center proposing to
    conduct the clinical trials.


 


    Human clinical trials are typically conducted in sequential
    phases:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Phase I.  During this phase, the drug is
    initially introduced into a relatively small number of healthy
    human subjects or patients and is tested for safety, dosage
    tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion.




 



     
        • 

    
    Phase II.  This phase involves studies in a
    limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects
    and safety risks, to determine the efficacy of the product for
    specific targeted diseases or conditions, and to determine
    dosage tolerance and optimal dosage.






    
    13



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Phase III.  When Phase II evaluations
    demonstrate that a dosage range of the product is effective and
    has an acceptable safety profile, Phase III trials are
    undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and to
    further test for safety in an expanded patient population at
    geographically dispersed clinical study sites.




 



     
        • 

    
    Phase IV.  After a drug has been approved by
    the FDA, Phase IV studies may be conducted to explore
    additional patient populations, compare the drug to a
    competitor, or to further study the risks, benefits and optimal
    use of a drug. These studies may be a requirement as a condition
    of the initial approval.





 


    The results of product development, preclinical studies and
    clinical studies are then submitted to the FDA as part of a NDA,
    for approval of the marketing and commercial shipment of the new
    product. The NDA drug development and approval process currently
    averages approximately five to ten years.


 


    FDA approval of an ANDA is required before we may begin
    marketing an off-patent or generic equivalent of a drug that has
    been approved under an NDA, or a previously unapproved dosage
    form of a drug that has been approved under an NDA. The ANDA
    approval process generally differs from the NDA approval process
    in that it does not typically require new preclinical and
    clinical studies; instead, it relies on the clinical studies
    establishing safety and efficacy conducted for the previously
    approved NDA drug. The ANDA process, however, typically requires
    data to show that the ANDA drug is bioequivalent (i.e.,
    therapeutically equivalent) to the previously approved drug.
    “Bioequivalence” compares the bioavailability of one
    drug product with another and, when established, indicates
    whether the rate and extent of absorption of a generic drug in
    the body are substantially equivalent to the previously approved
    drug. “Bioavailability” establishes the rate and
    extent of absorption, as determined by the time dependent
    concentrations of a drug product in the bloodstream needed to
    produce a therapeutic effect. The ANDA drug development and
    approval process generally takes less time than the NDA drug
    development and approval process since the ANDA process does not
    require new clinical trials establishing the safety and efficacy
    of the drug product.


 


    Supplemental NDAs or ANDAs are required for, among other things,
    approval to transfer certain products from one manufacturing
    site to another and may be under review for a year or more. In
    addition, certain products may only be approved for transfer
    once new bioequivalency studies are conducted or other
    requirements are satisfied.


 


    To obtain FDA approval of both NDAs and ANDAs, our manufacturing
    procedures and operations must conform to FDA quality system and
    control requirements generally referred to as current Good
    Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”), as defined in
    Title 21 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations.
    These regulations encompass all aspects of the production
    process from receipt and qualification of components to
    distribution procedures for finished products. They are evolving
    standards; thus, we must continue to expend substantial time,
    money and effort in all production and quality control areas to
    maintain compliance. The evolving and complex nature of
    regulatory requirements, the broad authority and discretion of
    the FDA, and the generally high level of regulatory oversight
    results in the continuing possibility that we may be adversely
    affected by regulatory actions despite our efforts to maintain
    compliance with regulatory requirements.


 


    We are subject to the periodic inspection of our facilities,
    procedures and operations
    and/or the
    testing of our products by the FDA, the DEA and other
    authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to assess
    compliance with applicable regulations. In addition, in
    connection with its review of our applications for new products,
    the FDA conducts pre-approval and post-approval reviews and
    plant inspections to determine whether our systems and processes
    comply with cGMP and other FDA regulations. Among other things,
    the FDA may withhold approval of NDAs, ANDAs or other product
    applications of a facility if deficiencies are found at that
    facility. Vendors that supply finished products or components to
    us that we use to manufacture, package and label products are
    subject to similar regulation and periodic inspections.


 


    Following such inspections, the FDA may issue notices on
    Form 483 and Warning Letters that could cause us to modify
    certain activities identified during the inspection. A
    Form 483 notice is generally issued at the conclusion of an
    FDA inspection and lists conditions the FDA investigators
    believe may violate cGMP or other FDA regulations. FDA
    guidelines specify that a Warning Letter be issued only for
    violations of



    
    14



Table of Contents




    “regulatory significance” for which the failure to
    adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to
    result in an enforcement action.


 


    Our Corona, California facility is currently subject to a
    consent decree of permanent injunction. See also
    “Manufacturing, Suppliers and Materials” discussion
    above, “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks
    Related to Our Business — Extensive industry
    regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant
    impact on our business, especially our product development,
    manufacturing and distribution capabilities.” and Legal
    Matters in “NOTE 15 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations
    can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures,
    recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of
    production
    and/or
    distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of NDAs, ANDAs
    or other product application enforcement actions, injunctions
    and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA
    also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug
    approvals. Although we have internal compliance programs, if
    these programs do not meet regulatory agency standards or if our
    compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could
    have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our
    Business — Extensive industry regulation has had, and
    will continue to have, a significant impact on our business,
    especially our product development, manufacturing and
    distribution capabilities.” in this Annual Report.


 


    The Generic Drug Enforcement Act of 1992 established penalties
    for wrongdoing in connection with the development or submission
    of an ANDA. Under this Act, the FDA has the authority to
    permanently or temporarily bar companies or individuals from
    submitting or assisting in the submission of an ANDA, and to
    temporarily deny approval and suspend applications to market
    generic drugs. The FDA may also suspend the distribution of all
    drugs approved or developed in connection with certain wrongful
    conduct
    and/or
    withdraw approval of an ANDA and seek civil penalties. The FDA
    can also significantly delay the approval of any pending NDA,
    ANDA or other regulatory submissions under the Fraud, Untrue
    Statements of Material Facts, Bribery and Illegal Gratuities
    Policy Act.


 


    Government reimbursement programs include Medicare, Medicaid,
    TriCare, and State Pharmacy Assistance Programs established
    according to statute, government regulations and policy. Federal
    law requires that all pharmaceutical manufacturers, as a
    condition of having their products receive federal reimbursement
    under Medicaid, must pay rebates to state Medicaid programs on
    units of their pharmaceuticals that are dispensed to Medicaid
    beneficiaries. The required
    per-unit
    rebate is currently 11% of the average manufacturer price for
    products marketed under ANDAs. For products marketed under NDAs,
    manufacturers are required to rebate the greater of 15.1% of the
    average manufacturer price, or the difference between the
    average manufacturer price and the lowest net sales price to a
    non-government customer during a specified period. In some
    states, supplemental rebates are additionally required as a
    condition of including the manufacturer’s drug on the
    state’s Preferred Drug List.


 


    The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization
    Act of 2003 (the “MMA”) requires that manufacturers
    report data to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
    (“CMS”) on pricing of drugs and biologicals reimbursed
    under Medicare Part B. These are generally drugs, such as
    injectable products, that are administered “incident
    to” a physician service, and in general are not
    self-administered. Effective January 1, 2005, average
    selling price (“ASP”) became the basis for
    reimbursement to physicians and suppliers for drugs and
    biologicals covered under Medicare Part B, replacing the
    average wholesale price (“AWP”) provided and published
    by pricing services. In general, we must comply with all
    reporting requirements for any drug or biological that is
    separately reimbursable under Medicare. Watson’s
    Ferrlecit®,

    INFeD®

    and
    Trelstar®

    products are reimbursed under Medicare Part B and, as a
    result, we provide ASP data on these products to CMS on a
    quarterly basis.


 


    Under Part D of the MMA, some Medicare beneficiaries are
    eligible to obtain subsidized prescription drug coverage from
    private sector providers. With the January 2006 implementation
    of the Part D drug benefit, usage of pharmaceuticals has
    increased as a result of the expanded access to medicines
    afforded by the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. However,
    such sales increases have been offset by increased pricing
    pressures due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private
    sector providers who negotiate on behalf of



    
    15



Table of Contents




    Medicare beneficiaries. While it is still difficult to predict
    the future impact the Medicare prescription drug coverage
    benefit will have on pharmaceutical companies, it is anticipated
    that further pricing pressures will continue into 2009 and
    beyond.


 


    The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) mandated a
    number of changes in the Medicaid Program. On July 6, 2007,
    the CMS published the Medicaid Program: Prescription Drugs Final
    Rule (the “Rule”) to implement certain sections of the
    DRA. The Rule provides new requirements for calculating Average
    Manufacturers Price (“AMP”) to be used for reimbursing
    pharmacies that dispense generic drugs under the Medicaid
    Program, and a schedule to publish monthly and quarterly AMP
    data on a public web site, beginning in December 2007. The new
    definition of AMP could significantly reduce pharmacy
    reimbursement for Medicaid covered drugs, which could adversely
    impact generic drug manufacturers for a variety of reasons,
    particularly if pharmacies demand lower prices. The publication
    of AMP data could disrupt the marketplace for generic drugs
    because AMP, as calculated under the Rule, does not necessarily
    represent the actual retail cost of generic drug products. On
    December 14, 2007, the United States District Court for the
    District of Columbia issued a preliminary injunction that bars
    CMS from implementing the Rule, including the AMP data
    publication provisions and the new requirements for calculating
    AMP. However, the duration of the injunction is uncertain, and
    the enforceability of the Rule is still under review by the
    District Court. If the District or Appellate Court rules in
    favor of CMS, or if the injunction is lifted and CMS enforces
    the Rule as currently written, our results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely
    affected.


 


    There has been enhanced political attention, governmental
    scrutiny and litigation at the federal and state levels of the
    prices paid or reimbursed for pharmaceutical products under
    Medicaid, Medicare and other government programs. See
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related to
    Our Business — Investigations of the calculation of
    average wholesale prices may adversely affect our
    business.” and Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 15 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    In order to assist us in commercializing products, we have
    obtained from government authorities and private health insurers
    and other organizations, such as Health Maintenance
    Organizations (“HMOs”) and Managed Care Organizations
    (“MCOs”), authorization to receive reimbursement at
    varying levels for the cost of certain products and related
    treatments. Third party payers increasingly challenge pricing of
    pharmaceutical products. The trend toward managed healthcare in
    the U.S., the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and
    legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government
    insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of
    pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a
    reduction in product demand. Such cost containment measures and
    healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell our products
    and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results
    of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Due to the
    uncertainty surrounding reimbursement of newly approved
    pharmaceutical products, reimbursement may not be available for
    some of our products. Additionally, any reimbursement granted
    may not be maintained or limits on reimbursement available from
    third-party payers may reduce the demand for, or negatively
    affect the price of, those products.


 


    Federal, state and local laws of general applicability, such as
    laws regulating working conditions, also govern us. In addition,
    we are subject, as are all manufacturers generally, to numerous
    and increasingly stringent federal, state and local
    environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other
    things, the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
    treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous substances and the
    discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Environmental
    permits and controls are required for some of our operations,
    and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and
    revocation by the issuing authorities. Our environmental capital
    expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase
    in the future as a result of changes in environmental laws and
    regulations or increased manufacturing activities at any of our
    facilities. We could be adversely affected by any failure to
    comply with environmental laws, including the costs of
    undertaking a
    clean-up at
    a site to which our wastes were transported.


 


    As part of the MMA, companies are required to file with the
    U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and the
    Department of Justice certain types of agreements entered into
    between brand and generic pharmaceutical companies related to
    the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic versions of brand
    drugs. This



    
    16



Table of Contents




    requirement could affect the manner in which generic drug
    manufacturers resolve intellectual property litigation and other
    disputes with brand pharmaceutical companies, and could result
    generally in an increase in private-party litigation against
    pharmaceutical companies. The impact of this requirement, and
    the potential private-party lawsuits associated with
    arrangements between brand name and generic drug manufacturers,
    is uncertain and could adversely affect our business. For
    example, in January 2009 the FTC and the State of California
    filed a lawsuit against us alleging that our settlement with
    Solvay related to our ANDA for a generic version of
    Androgel®

    is unlawful. In February 2009 several private parties purporting
    to represent various classes of plaintiffs filed similar
    lawsuits. Additionally, we have received requests for
    information, in the form of civil investigative demands or
    subpoenas, from the FTC, and are subject to ongoing FTC
    investigations, concerning our settlement with Cephalon related
    to our ANDA for a generic version of
    Provigil®,

    and our agreement with Sandoz to relinquish our Hatch-Waxman Act
    marketing exclusivity on our ANDA for a 50 mg generic
    version of Toprol
    XL®.

    Any adverse outcome of these investigations or actions could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows. See
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related to
    Our Business— Federal regulation of arrangements
    between manufacturers of brand and generic products could
    adversely affect our business.” Also refer to Legal
    Matters in “NOTE 15 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    Continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and
    efficacy of pharmaceuticals and other health care products are
    being conducted by industry, government agencies and others.
    Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods
    and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety
    and efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases
    have resulted, and may in the future result, in the
    discontinuance of their marketing.


 


    Our Distribution operations and our customers are subject to
    various regulatory requirements, including requirements from the
    DEA, FDA, and state boards of pharmacy and city and county
    health regulators, among others. These include licensing,
    registration, recordkeeping, security and reporting
    requirements. In particular, several states and the federal
    government have begun to enforce anti-counterfeit drug pedigree
    laws which require the tracking of all transactions involving
    prescription drugs beginning with the manufacturer, through the
    supply chain, and down to the pharmacy or other health care
    provider dispensing or administering prescription drug products.
    For example, effective July 1, 2006, the Florida Department
    of Health began enforcement of the drug pedigree requirements
    for distribution of prescription drugs in the State of Florida.
    Pursuant to Florida law and regulations, wholesalers and
    distributors, including our subsidiary, Anda Pharmaceuticals,
    are required to maintain records documenting the chain of
    custody of prescription drug products they distribute beginning
    with the purchase of such products from the manufacturer. These
    entities are required to provide documentation of the prior
    transaction(s) to their customers in Florida, including
    pharmacies and other health care entities. Several other states
    have proposed or enacted legislation to implement similar or
    more stringent drug pedigree requirements. In addition, federal
    law requires that a “non-authorized distributor of
    record” must provide a drug pedigree documenting the prior
    purchase of a prescription drug from the manufacturer or from an
    “authorized distributor of record.” In cases where the
    wholesaler or distributor selling the drug product is not deemed
    an “authorized distributor of record” it would need to
    maintain such records. FDA had announced its intent to impose
    additional drug pedigree requirements (e.g., tracking of lot
    numbers and documentation of all transactions) through
    implementation of drug pedigree regulations which were to have
    taken effect on December 1, 2006. However, a federal
    appeals court has issued a preliminary injunction to several
    wholesale distributors granting an indefinite stay of these
    regulations pending a challenge to the regulations by these
    wholesale distributors.


 


    In connection with the acquisition of Andrx Corporation
    (“Andrx”) on November 3, 2006 (the “Andrx
    Acquisition”), both Watson and Andrx agreed to divest
    certain overlapping products and abide by the terms of the
    Decision and Order (the “Order”) entered by the FTC in
    December 2006, which includes certain reporting requirements and
    technical assistance. Failure to abide by the terms of the
    Order, which expires in December 2016, could result in, among
    other things, civil penalties.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    Environmental
    Matters


 


    We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign
    environmental laws and regulations. We believe that our
    operations comply in all material respects with applicable
    environmental laws and regulations in each country where we have
    a business presence. Although we continue to make capital
    expenditures for environmental protection, we do not anticipate
    any significant expenditures in order to comply with such laws
    and regulations that would have a material impact on our
    earnings or competitive position. We are not aware of any
    pending litigation or significant financial obligations arising
    from current or past environmental practices that are likely to
    have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We
    cannot assure you, however, that environmental problems relating
    to facilities owned or operated by us will not develop in the
    future, and we cannot predict whether any such problems, if they
    were to develop, could require significant expenditures on our
    part. In addition, we are unable to predict what legislation or
    regulations may be adopted or enacted in the future with respect
    to environmental protection and waste disposal.


 



    Seasonality


 


    There are no significant seasonal aspects to our business.


 



    Backlog


 


    Due to the relatively short lead-time required to fill orders
    for our products, backlog of orders is not material to our
    business.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately
    5,070 employees. Of our employees, approximately 670 are
    engaged in R&D, 1,640 in manufacturing, 990 in quality
    assurance and quality control, 1,090 in sales, marketing and
    distribution, and 680 in administration. We believe our
    relations with our employees are good.



    
    18



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 



    CAUTIONARY
    NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS


 


    Any statements made in this report that are not statements of
    historical fact or that refer to estimated or anticipated future
    events are forward-looking statements. We have based our
    forward-looking statements on management’s beliefs and
    assumptions based on information available to our management at
    the time these statements are made. Such forward-looking
    statements reflect our current perspective of our business,
    future performance, existing trends and information as of the
    date of this filing. These include, but are not limited to, our
    beliefs about future revenue and expense levels and growth
    rates, prospects related to our strategic initiatives and
    business strategies, including the integration of, and synergies
    associated with, strategic acquisitions, express or implied
    assumptions about government regulatory action or inaction,
    anticipated product approvals and launches, business initiatives
    and product development activities, assessments related to
    clinical trial results, product performance and competitive
    environment, and anticipated financial performance. Without
    limiting the generality of the foregoing, words such as
    “may,” “will,” “expect,”
    “believe,” “anticipate,” “intend,”
    “could,” “would,” “estimate,”
    “continue,” or “pursue,” or the negative
    or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, are
    intended to identify forward-looking statements. The statements
    are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain
    risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to
    predict. We caution the reader that these statements are based
    on certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which
    are beyond our control. In addition, certain important factors
    may affect our actual operating results and could cause such
    results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by
    forward-looking statements. We believe the risks and
    uncertainties discussed under the section entitled “Risks
    Related to Our Business,” and other risks and uncertainties
    detailed herein and from time to time in our SEC filings, may
    cause our actual results to vary materially than those
    anticipated in any forward-looking statement.


 


    We disclaim any obligation to publicly update any
    forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
    information, future events or otherwise, except as required by
    law. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 


    We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a
    number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The
    following discussion highlights some of these risks and others
    are discussed elsewhere in this annual report. These and other
    risks could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Risks
    Associated With Investing In the Business of Watson


 



    Our
    operating results and financial condition may
    fluctuate.


 


    Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from
    quarter to quarter and year to year for a number of reasons. The
    following events or occurrences, among others, could cause
    fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    development of new competitive products or generics by others;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing and receipt of FDA approvals or lack of approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties or delays in resolving FDA-observed deficiencies at
    our manufacturing facilities, which could delay our ability to
    obtain approvals of pending FDA product applications;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the amount we spend to develop, acquire or license
    new products, technologies or businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the amount we spend to promote our products;






    
    19



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    delays between our expenditures to acquire new products,
    technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from
    those acquired products, technologies or businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in treatment practices of physicians that currently
    prescribe our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in reimbursement policies of health plans and other
    similar health insurers, including changes that affect newly
    developed or newly acquired products;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in laws and regulations concerning reimbursement of
    pharmaceutical products, including Medicare, Medicaid, and
    similar state programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    manufacturing and supply interruptions, including failure to
    comply with manufacturing specifications;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effect of economic changes in hurricane and other natural
    disaster-affected areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impact of third party patents and other intellectual
    property rights which we may be found to infringe, or may be
    required to license, and the potential damages or other costs we
    may be required to pay as a result of a finding that we infringe
    such intellectual property rights or a decision that we are
    required to obtain a license to such intellectual property
    rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    the mix of products that we sell during any time period;




 



     
        • 

    
    lower than expected demand for our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    our responses to price competition;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to successfully integrate and commercialize the
    products, technologies and businesses we acquire or license, as
    applicable;




 



     
        • 

    
    expenditures as a result of legal actions;




 



     
        • 

    
    market acceptance of our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impairment and write-down of goodwill or other intangible
    assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    disposition of our primary products, technologies and other
    rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    termination or expiration of, or the outcome of disputes
    relating to, trademarks, patents, license agreements and other
    rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in insurance rates for existing products and the cost of
    insurance for new products;




 



     
        • 

    
    general economic and industry conditions, including changes in
    interest rates affecting returns on cash balances and
    investments that affect customer demand;




 



     
        • 

    
    our level of R&D activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairment or write-down of investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    costs and outcomes of any tax audits or any litigation involving
    intellectual property, customers or other issues; and




 



     
        • 

    
    timing of revenue recognition related to licensing agreements
    and/or
    strategic collaborations.






    
    20



Table of Contents



 


    As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our
    results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and these
    comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future
    performance. The above factors may cause our operating results
    to fluctuate and adversely affect our financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    If we
    are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new
    products, our operating results will suffer.


 


    Our future results of operations will depend to a significant
    extent upon our ability to successfully develop and
    commercialize new brand and generic products in a timely manner.
    There are numerous difficulties in developing and
    commercializing new products, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    developing, testing and manufacturing products in compliance
    with regulatory standards in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    receiving requisite regulatory approvals for such products in a
    timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability, on commercially reasonable terms, of raw
    materials, including API and other key ingredients;




 



     
        • 

    
    developing and commercializing a new product is time consuming,
    costly and subject to numerous factors, including legal actions
    brought by our competitors, that may delay or prevent the
    development and commercialization of new products;




 



     
        • 

    
    experiencing delays or unanticipated costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    commercializing generic products may be substantially delayed by
    the listing with the FDA of patents that have the effect of
    potentially delaying approval of the off-patent product by up to
    30 months.





 


    As a result of these and other difficulties, products currently
    in development by Watson may or may not receive timely
    regulatory approvals, or approvals at all, necessary for
    marketing by Watson or other third-party partners. This risk
    particularly exists with respect to the development of
    proprietary products because of the uncertainties, higher costs
    and lengthy time frames associated with research and development
    of such products and the inherent unproven market acceptance of
    such products. Additionally, we face heightened risks in
    connection with our development of extended release or
    controlled release generic products because of the technical
    difficulties and regulatory requirements related to such
    products. If any of our products are not timely approved or,
    when acquired or developed and approved, cannot be successfully
    or timely commercialized, our operating results could be
    adversely affected. We cannot guarantee that any investment we
    make in developing products will be recouped, even if we are
    successful in commercializing those products.


 



    Our
    brand pharmaceutical expenditures may not result in commercially
    successful products.


 


    Developing and commercializing brand pharmaceutical products is
    generally more costly than generic products. In the future, we
    anticipate continuing our product development expenditures for
    our Brand business segment. For example in November 2008, the
    FDA accepted for filing an NDA for a six month formulation of
    our
    Trelstar®

    (triptorelin for injection) product for prostate cancer and its
    review is ongoing. We cannot be sure these or other business
    expenditures will result in the successful discovery,
    development or launch of brand products that will prove to be
    commercially successful or will improve the long-term
    profitability of our business. If such business expenditures do
    not result in successful discovery, development or launch of
    commercially successful brand products our results of operations
    and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Loss
    of revenues from
    Ferrlecit®,

    a significant product, could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.


 


    In 2008,
    Ferrlecit®

    accounted for approximately 12% of our gross profit.


 


    On March 28, 2008, we received a notice from Sanofi Aventis
    contending that the distribution agreement and related
    agreements for
    Ferrlecit®

    between certain affiliates of Sanofi Aventis and the Company
    expire on



    
    21



Table of Contents




    February 18, 2009. Sanofi Aventis also contends it would be
    entitled to damages and other relief to the extent the Company
    sells Ferrlecit after February 18, 2009. We contend the
    distribution agreement and related agreements expire on
    December 31, 2009. The parties are currently engaged in a
    binding arbitration proceeding to resolve these disputes. A
    decision in the arbitration is expected in May 2009.
    Additionally, the parties are continuing to discuss a possible
    extension of the distribution agreement and related agreements
    beyond 2009. However, there can be no assurance that we will be
    able to negotiate extensions of these agreements on commercially
    reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to negotiate
    extensions of these agreements on commercially reasonable terms,
    or an adverse finding in the pending arbitration proceeding,
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 


    Even if we succeed in the pending arbitration
    and/or are
    able to extend our agreements with Sanofi Aventis beyond 2009,
    we lost regulatory exclusivity on our
    Ferrlecit®

    product in 2004 and, as a result generic applicants became
    eligible to submit ANDAs for
    Ferrlecit®.

    In February 2004, we submitted a Citizen Petition to the FDA
    requesting that the FDA not approve any ANDA for a generic
    version of
    Ferrlecit®

    until certain manufacturing, physiochemical and safety and
    efficacy criteria are satisfied. During the third quarter of
    2004, we submitted a second Citizen Petition to the FDA
    requesting that the FDA refuse to accept for substantive review
    any ANDA referencing
    Ferrlecit®

    until the FDA establishes guidelines for determining whether the
    generic product is the same complex as
    Ferrlecit®.

    In October 2006, we submitted a supplement to our Citizen
    Petition, reiterating our request for the FDA to establish
    guidelines for determining what data are needed to prove that
    generic formulations of
    Ferrlecit®

    contain the same active complex as
    Ferrlecit®.

    We cannot predict whether the FDA will grant or deny our Citizen
    Petitions or when it may take such action.


 


    In addition to risks associated with generic competition, we are
    aware of competitors that are developing proprietary products
    that could compete with
    Ferrlecit®.

    These companies may succeed in developing technologies and
    products that are considered safer or more efficacious, or are
    less costly than
    Ferrlecit®.



 


    If a generic version of
    Ferrlecit®

    or other competitive product is approved by the FDA and enters
    the market, our net revenues and profits could significantly
    decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 


    A large percentage of our
    Ferrlecit®

    sales are made to dialysis centers. In recent years, there has
    been significant consolidation of the dialysis business, marked
    by mergers and acquisitions among dialysis centers. As a result,
    a small number of customers control a significant share of the
    injectable iron market in which
    Ferrlecit®

    competes. Continued consolidation may adversely impact pricing
    and create other competitive pressures on suppliers of
    injectable iron.


 


    During 2008, our largest customer for
    Ferrlecit®

    accounted for approximately 37% of our
    Ferrlecit®

    sales. During 2008 that customer became the exclusive U.S.
    licensee of Venofer, a product that directly competes with
    Ferrlecit®.

    If we are not able to maintain our
    Ferrlecit®

    business with our largest customer, or if we lose any other
    significant
    Ferrlecit®

    customer, our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Any
    acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses, may be
    difficult to integrate, could adversely affect our relationships
    with key customers, and/or could result in significant charges
    to earnings.


 


    We regularly review potential acquisitions of technologies,
    products and businesses complementary to our business.
    Acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in
    difficulties in integrating operations, personnel, technologies
    and products. If we are not able to successfully integrate our
    acquisitions, we may not obtain the advantages and synergies
    that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows, our ability to develop and
    introduce new products and the market price of our stock. In
    addition, in connection with acquisitions, we could experience
    disruption in our business, technology and information systems,
    customer or employee base, including diversion of
    management’s attention from our continuing operations.
    There is also a risk that key employees of companies that we
    acquire or key employees necessary to successfully commercialize
    technologies and products that we acquire may seek employment
    elsewhere, including with our competitors. Furthermore, there
    may be overlap between the products or customers of Watson and
    the companies that we



    
    22



Table of Contents




    acquire that may create conflicts in relationships or other
    commitments detrimental to the integrated businesses. For
    example, in our Distribution business, our main competitors are
    McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal
    Health, Inc. These companies are significant customers of our
    Generic and Brand operations and who collectively accounted for
    approximately 28% of our annual net revenues in 2008. Our
    activities related to our Distribution business, as well as the
    acquisition of other businesses that compete with our customers,
    may result in the disruption of our business, which could harm
    relationships with our current customers, employees or
    suppliers, and could adversely affect our expenses, pricing,
    third-party relationships and revenues.


 


    In addition, as a result of acquiring businesses or products, or
    entering into other significant transactions, we have
    experienced, and will likely continue to experience, significant
    charges to earnings for merger and related expenses. These costs
    may include substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys,
    accountants and financial printing costs and severance and other
    closure costs associated with the elimination of duplicate or
    discontinued products, operations and facilities. Charges that
    we may incur in connection with acquisitions could adversely
    affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or
    annual periods.


 



    If we
    are unsuccessful in our joint ventures and other collaborations,
    our operating results could suffer.


 


    We have made substantial investments in joint ventures and other
    collaborations and may use these and other methods to develop or
    commercialize products in the future. These arrangements
    typically involve other pharmaceutical companies as partners
    that may be competitors of ours in certain markets. In many
    instances, we will not control these joint ventures or
    collaborations or the commercial exploitation of the licensed
    products, and cannot assure you that these ventures will be
    profitable. Although restrictions contained in certain of these
    programs have not had a material adverse impact on the marketing
    of our own products to date, any such marketing restrictions
    could affect future revenues and have a material adverse effect
    on our operations. Our results of operations may suffer if
    existing joint venture or collaboration partners withdraw, or if
    these products are not timely developed, approved or
    successfully commercialized.


 



    If we
    are unable to adequately protect our technology or enforce our
    patents, our business could suffer.


 


    Our success with the brand products that we develop will depend,
    in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for these
    products. We currently have a number of U.S. and foreign
    patents issued and pending. However, issuance of a patent is not
    conclusive evidence of its validity or enforceability. We cannot
    be sure that we will receive patents for any of our pending
    patent applications or any patent applications we may file in
    the future, or that our issued patents will be upheld if
    challenged. For example, in September, 2008, we received notice
    that Duramed Pharmaceuticals had filed an ANDA seeking to market
    a generic version of our Oxytrol product, and contending that
    our patents covering Oxytrol are invalid or not infringed. If
    our current and future patent applications are not approved or,
    if approved, our patents are not upheld in a court of law if
    challenged, it may reduce our ability to competitively exploit
    our patented products. Also, such patents may or may not provide
    competitive advantages for their respective products or they may
    be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, in which case
    our ability to commercially market these products may be
    diminished.


 


    We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we
    seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements
    with our partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is
    possible that these agreements will be breached or that they
    will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not
    have adequate remedies for any such breach. It is also possible
    that our trade secrets will become known or independently
    developed by our competitors.


 


    If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade
    secrets or propriety know-how, or enforce our patents, our
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could
    suffer.



    
    23



Table of Contents





    If
    pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of
    generics through their legislative, regulatory and other
    efforts, our sales of generic products may suffer.


 


    Many pharmaceutical companies increasingly have used state and
    federal legislative and regulatory means to delay generic
    competition. These efforts have included:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    pursuing new patents for existing products which may be granted
    just before the expiration of one patent, which could extend
    patent protection for additional years or otherwise delay the
    launch of generics;




 



     
        • 

    
    selling the brand product as an Authorized Generic, either by
    the brand company directly, through an affiliate or by a
    marketing partner;




 



     
        • 

    
    using the Citizen Petition process to request amendments to FDA
    standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    seeking changes to U.S. Pharmacopeia, an organization which
    publishes industry recognized compendia of drug standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    attaching patent extension amendments to non-related federal
    legislation;




 



     
        • 

    
    engaging in
    state-by-state
    initiatives to enact legislation that restricts the substitution
    of some generic drugs, which could have an impact on products
    that we are developing; and




 



     
        • 

    
    seeking patents on methods of manufacturing certain API.





 


    If pharmaceutical companies or other third parties are
    successful in limiting the use of generic products through these
    or other means, our sales of generic products may decline. If we
    experience a material decline in generic product sales, our
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will
    suffer.


 



    If
    competitors are successful in limiting competition for certain
    generic products through their legislative, regulatory and
    litigation efforts, our sales of certain generic products may
    suffer.


 


    Certain of our competitors have recently challenged our ability
    to distribute Authorized Generics during the competitors’
    180-day
    period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act. Under the
    challenged arrangements, we have obtained rights to market and
    distribute under a brand manufacturer’s NDA a generic
    alternative of the brand product. Some of our competitors have
    challenged the propriety of these arrangements by filing Citizen
    Petitions with the FDA, initiating lawsuits alleging violation
    of the antitrust and consumer protection laws, and seeking
    legislative intervention. The FDA and courts that have
    considered the subject to date have ruled that there is no
    prohibition in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act against
    distributing Authorized Generic versions of a brand drug.
    However, on February 3, 2009, legislation was introduced in
    the U.S. Senate that would prohibit the marketing of
    Authorized Generics during the
    180-day
    period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act. Further,
    the DRA added provisions to the Medicaid Rebate Program that,
    effective January 1, 2007, may have the effect of
    increasing an NDA holder’s Medicaid Rebate liability if it
    permits another manufacturer to market an Authorized Generic
    version of its brand product. This may affect the willingness of
    brand manufacturers to continue arrangements, or enter into
    future arrangements, permitting us to market Authorized Generic
    versions of their brand products. If so, or if distribution of
    Authorized Generic versions of brand products is otherwise
    restricted or found unlawful, our results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely
    affected.


 



    From
    time to time we may need to rely on licenses to proprietary
    technologies, which may be difficult or expensive to
    obtain.


 


    We may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary
    rights held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market
    products. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on
    commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially
    market our products may be inhibited or prevented, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.



    
    24



Table of Contents





    Third
    parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and
    may prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our
    products.


 


    The manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the
    subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of
    substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These
    lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or
    proprietary rights of third parties. We may have to defend
    against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights
    of third parties. This is especially true in the case of generic
    products on which the patent covering the brand product is
    expiring, an area where infringement litigation is prevalent,
    and in the case of new brand products where a competitor has
    obtained patents for similar products. Litigation may be costly
    and time-consuming, and could divert the attention of our
    management and technical personnel. In addition, if we infringe
    on the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop,
    manufacture or market products or could be required to pay
    monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from
    third parties. For example, in August 2008 the United States
    District Court for the Southern District of Florida ruled that
    our naproxen sodium product infringes Elan U.S. Patent
    Number 5,637,320, and that the infringement was willful. We are
    also engaged in litigation with Duramed Pharmaceuticals
    concerning whether our
    Quasensetm

    product infringes Duramed’s U.S. Patent Number
    RE 39,861, and we continue to manufacture and market our
    Quasensetm

    product during the pendency of the litigation. Although the
    parties to patent and intellectual property disputes in the
    pharmaceutical industry have often settled their disputes
    through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated
    with these arrangements may be substantial and could include
    ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the
    necessary licenses would be available to us on commercially
    reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, an adverse
    determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or
    failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from
    manufacturing and selling a number of our products, and could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Our
    distribution operations are highly dependent upon a primary
    courier service.


 


    Product deliveries within our Distribution business are highly
    dependent on overnight delivery services to deliver our products
    in a timely and reliable manner, typically by overnight service.
    Our Distribution business ships a substantial portion of
    products via one courier’s air and ground delivery service.
    If the courier terminates our contract with this courier or we
    cannot renew the courier’s contract on favorable terms or
    enter into a contract with an equally reliable overnight courier
    to perform and offer the same service level at similar or more
    favorable rates, our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Our
    distribution operations concentrate on generic products and
    therefore are subject to the risks of the generic
    industry.


 


    The ability of our Distribution business to provide consistent,
    sequential quarterly growth is affected, in large part, by our
    participation in the launch of new products by generic
    manufacturers and the subsequent advent and extent of
    competition encountered by these products. This competition can
    result in significant and rapid declines in pricing with a
    corresponding decrease in net sales of our Distribution
    business. Our margins can also be affected by the risks inherent
    to the generic industry, which are discussed below under
    “Risks Relating To Investing In the Pharmaceutical
    Industry”.


 



    If we
    are unable to obtain sufficient supplies from key manufacturing
    sites or suppliers that in some cases may be the only source of
    finished products or raw materials, our ability to deliver our
    products to the market may be impeded.


 


    We are required to identify the supplier(s) of all the raw
    materials for our products in our applications with the FDA. To
    the extent practicable, we attempt to identify more than one
    supplier in each drug application. However, some products and
    raw materials are available only from a single source and, in
    some of our drug applications, only one supplier of products and
    raw materials or site of manufacture has been identified, even
    in instances where multiple sources exist. Some of these
    products have historically accounted



    
    25



Table of Contents




    for a significant portion of our revenues, such as
    Ferrlecit®,

    INFed®,

    bupropion sustained release tablets and a significant number of
    our oral contraceptive products. From time to time, certain of
    our manufacturing sites or outside suppliers have experienced
    regulatory or supply-related difficulties that have inhibited
    their ability to deliver products and raw materials to us,
    causing supply delays or interruptions. To the extent any
    difficulties experienced by our manufacturing sites or suppliers
    cannot be resolved or extensions of our key supply agreements
    cannot be negotiated within a reasonable time and on
    commercially reasonable terms, or if raw materials for a
    particular product become unavailable from an approved supplier
    and we are required to qualify a new supplier with the FDA, or
    if we are unable to do so, our profit margins and market share
    for the affected product could decrease or be eliminated, as
    well as delay our development and sales and marketing efforts.
    Such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.


 


    Our manufacturing sites in India and our arrangements with
    foreign suppliers are subject to certain additional risks,
    including the availability of government clearances, export
    duties, political instability, war, acts of terrorism, currency
    fluctuations and restrictions on the transfer of funds. For
    example, we obtain a significant portion of our raw materials
    from foreign suppliers. Arrangements with international raw
    material suppliers are subject to, among other things, FDA
    regulation, customs clearances, various import duties and other
    government clearances, as well as potential shipping delays due
    to inclement weather, strikes or other matters outside of our
    control. Acts of governments outside the U.S. may affect
    the price or availability of raw materials needed for the
    development or manufacture of our products. In addition, recent
    changes in patent laws in jurisdictions outside the
    U.S. may make it increasingly difficult to obtain raw
    materials for R&D prior to the expiration of the applicable
    U.S. or foreign patents.


 



    Our
    policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and
    marketing programs adopted by wholesalers, may reduce our
    revenues in future fiscal periods.


 


    Consistent with industry practice we, like many generic product
    manufacturers, have liberal return policies and have been
    willing to give customers post-sale inventory allowances. Under
    these arrangements, from time to time, we may give our customers
    credits on our generic products that our customers hold in
    inventory after we have decreased the market prices of the same
    generic products. Therefore, if new competitors enter the
    marketplace and significantly lower the prices of any of their
    competing products, we may reduce the price of our product. As a
    result, we may be obligated to provide significant credits to
    our customers who are then holding inventories of such products,
    which could reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period
    the credit is provided. Like our competitors, we also give
    credits for chargebacks to wholesale customers that have
    contracts with us for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing
    organizations, pharmacies or other retail customers. A
    chargeback represents an amount payable in the future to a
    wholesaler for the difference between the invoice price paid to
    us by our wholesale customer for a particular product and the
    negotiated contract price that the wholesaler’s customer
    pays for that product. Although we establish reserves based on
    our prior experience and our best estimates of the impact that
    these policies may have in subsequent periods, we cannot ensure
    that our reserves are adequate or that actual product returns,
    allowances and chargebacks will not exceed our estimates, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations, financial condition, cash flows and the market price
    of our stock.


 



    Investigations
    of the calculation of average wholesale prices may adversely
    affect our business.


 


    Many government and third-party payers, including Medicare,
    Medicaid, HMOs and MCOs, have historically reimbursed, or
    continue to reimburse, doctors and others for the purchase of
    certain prescription drugs based on a drug’s AWP. In the
    past several years, state and federal government agencies have
    conducted ongoing investigations of manufacturers’
    reporting practices with respect to AWP, in which they have
    suggested that reporting of inflated AWP’s have led to
    excessive payments for prescription drugs. For example,
    beginning in July 2002, we and certain of our subsidiaries, as
    well as numerous other pharmaceutical companies, were named as
    defendants in various state and federal court actions alleging
    improper or fraudulent practices related to the reporting of AWP
    of certain products, and other improper acts, in order to
    increase prices and market shares. Additional actions are
    anticipated. These actions, if successful, could adversely



    
    26



Table of Contents




    affect us and may have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows. See Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 15 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 



    The
    design, development, manufacture and sale of our products
    involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and
    other third parties, and insurance against such potential claims
    is expensive and may be difficult to obtain.


 


    The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products
    involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and the
    associated adverse publicity. Insurance coverage is expensive
    and may be difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the
    future on acceptable terms, or at all. If the coverage limits
    for product liability insurance policies are not adequate, a
    claim brought against Watson, whether covered by insurance or
    not, could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    The
    loss of our key personnel could cause our business to
    suffer.


 


    The success of our present and future operations will depend, to
    a significant extent, upon the experience, abilities and
    continued services of key personnel. For example, although we
    have other senior management personnel, a significant loss of
    the services of Paul Bisaro, our Chief Executive Officer, or
    other senior executive officers without hiring a suitable
    successor, could cause our business to suffer. We cannot assure
    you that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel. We
    have entered into employment agreements with the majority of our
    senior executive officers but such agreements do not guarantee
    that our senior executive officers will remain employed by us
    for a significant period of time, or at all. We do not carry
    key-man life insurance on any of our officers.


 



    Rising
    insurance costs could negatively impact
    profitability.


 


    The cost of insurance, including workers’ compensation,
    product liability and general liability insurance, can increase
    significantly in a given period and may increase in the future.
    In response, we may increase deductibles
    and/or
    decrease certain lines of coverage to mitigate these costs.
    These increases, and our increased risk due to increased
    deductibles and reduced lines of coverage, could have a negative
    impact on our results of operations, financial condition and
    cash flows.


 



    Significant
    balances of intangible assets, including product rights and
    goodwill acquired, are subject to impairment testing and may
    result in impairment charges, which will adversely affect our
    results of operations and financial condition.


 


    A significant amount of our total assets is related to acquired
    intangibles and goodwill. As of December 31, 2008, the
    carrying value of our product rights and other intangible assets
    was approximately $560 million and the carrying value of
    our goodwill was approximately $868 million.


 


    Our product rights are stated at cost, less accumulated
    amortization. We determine original fair value and amortization
    periods for product rights based on our assessment of various
    factors impacting estimated useful lives and cash flows of the
    acquired products. Such factors include the product’s
    position in its life cycle, the existence or absence of like
    products in the market, various other competitive and regulatory
    issues and contractual terms. Significant adverse changes to any
    of these factors would require us to perform an impairment test
    on the affected asset and, if evidence of impairment exists, we
    would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to
    the asset. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations and financial condition.


 


    Our other significant intangible assets include acquired core
    technology and customer relationships, which are intangible
    assets with definite lives, and the Anda trade name, which is an
    intangible asset with an indefinite life, as we intend to use
    the Anda trade name indefinitely.



    
    27



Table of Contents




    Our acquired core technology and customer relationship
    intangible assets are stated at cost, less accumulated
    amortization. We determined the original fair value of our other
    intangible assets by performing a discounted cash flow analysis,
    which is based on our assessment of various factors. Such
    factors include existing operating margins, the number of
    existing and potential competitors, product pricing patterns,
    product market share analysis, product approval and launch
    dates, the effects of competition, customer attrition rates,
    consolidation within the industry and generic product lifecycle
    estimates. Our other intangible assets with definite lives are
    tested for impairment when there are significant changes to any
    of these factors. Our other intangible assets with indefinite
    lives are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if
    there are significant changes to any of the above factors. If
    evidence of impairment exists, we would be required to take an
    impairment charge with respect to the impaired asset. Such a
    charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial condition.


 


    Goodwill and our Anda trade name intangible asset are tested for
    impairment annually and when events occur or circumstances
    change that could potentially reduce the fair value of the
    reporting unit or intangible asset. Impairment testing compares
    the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset to its
    carrying amount. A goodwill or trade name impairment, if any,
    would be recorded in operating income and could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    We may
    need to raise additional funds in the future which may not be
    available on acceptable terms or at all.


 


    We may consider issuing additional debt or equity securities in
    the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to
    refinance existing debt, or for general corporate purposes. If
    we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise
    additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience
    dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights,
    preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing
    stockholders. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our
    leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity
    capitalization, requiring us to pay additional interest
    expenses. We may not be able to market such issuances on
    favorable terms, or at all, in which case, we may not be able to
    develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take
    advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive
    pressures or unanticipated customer requirements.


 



    Our
    business could suffer as a result of manufacturing difficulties
    or delays.


 


    The manufacture of certain of our products and product
    candidates, particularly our controlled-release products,
    transdermal products, and our oral contraceptive products, are
    more difficult than the manufacture of immediate-release
    products. Successful manufacturing of these types of products
    requires precise manufacturing process controls, API that
    conforms to very tight tolerances for specific characteristics
    and equipment that operates consistently within narrow
    performance ranges. Manufacturing complexity, testing
    requirements, and safety and security processes combine to
    increase the overall difficulty of manufacturing these products
    and resolving manufacturing problems that we may encounter.


 


    Our manufacturing and other processes utilize sophisticated
    equipment, which sometimes require a significant amount of time
    to obtain and install. Our business could suffer if certain
    manufacturing or other equipment, or a portion or all of our
    facilities were to become inoperable for a period of time. This
    could occur for various reasons, including catastrophic events
    such as earthquake, hurricane or explosion, unexpected equipment
    failures or delays in obtaining components or replacements
    thereof, as well as construction delays or defects and other
    events, both within and outside of our control. Our inability to
    timely manufacture any of our significant products could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows.


 



    Our
    business will continue to expose us to risks of environmental
    liabilities.


 


    Our product and API development programs, manufacturing
    processes and distribution logistics involve the controlled use
    of hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds in our
    owned and leased facilities. As a result, we are subject to
    numerous and increasingly stringent federal, state and local
    environmental laws



    
    28



Table of Contents




    and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation,
    handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of
    toxic and hazardous materials and the discharge of pollutants
    into the air and water. Our programs and processes expose us to
    risks that an accidental contamination could result in
    (i) our noncompliance with such environmental laws and
    regulations and (ii) regulatory enforcement actions or
    claims for personal injury and property damage against us. If an
    accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover
    contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior
    owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be
    liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. The
    substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a material
    and adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, environmental
    permits and controls are required for some of our operations,
    and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and
    revocation by the issuing authorities. Any modification,
    revocation or non-renewal of our environmental permits could
    have a material adverse effect on our ongoing operations,
    business and financial condition. Our environmental capital
    expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase
    in the future as a result of changes in environmental laws and
    regulations or increased development or manufacturing activities
    at any of our facilities.


 



    Global
    Economic Conditions Could Harm Us.


 


    Recent global market and economic conditions have been
    unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and
    recession in most major economies continuing into 2009.
    Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential
    long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical
    issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global
    housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased
    market volatility and diminished expectations for western and
    emerging economies. In the second half of 2008, added concerns
    fueled by the U.S. government conservatorship of the
    Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal National
    Mortgage Association, the declared bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
    Holdings Inc., the U.S. government financial assistance to
    American International Group Inc., Citibank, Bank of
    America and other federal government interventions in the
    U.S. financial system lead to increased market uncertainty
    and instability in both U.S. and international capital and
    credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile oil
    prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased
    unemployment, have contributed to volatility of unprecedented
    levels.


 


    As a result of these market conditions, the cost and
    availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely
    affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads.
    Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the
    strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and
    institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to
    provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have
    lead to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers
    alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure
    spending. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and
    international markets and economies and prolonged declines in
    business consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity
    and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial
    condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance
    maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet
    liquidity needs.


 



    Risks
    Relating To Investing In the Pharmaceutical Industry


 



    Extensive
    industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a
    significant impact on our business, especially our product
    development, manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities.


 


    All pharmaceutical companies, including Watson, are subject to
    extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the
    federal government, principally the FDA and to a lesser extent
    by the DEA and state government agencies, as well as by varying
    regulatory agencies in foreign countries where products or
    product candidates are being manufactured
    and/or
    marketed. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the
    Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and
    regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing,
    packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval,
    advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products.


 


    Under these regulations, we are subject to periodic inspection
    of our facilities, procedures and operations
    and/or the
    testing of our products by the FDA, the DEA and other
    authorities, which conduct periodic



    
    29



Table of Contents




    inspections to confirm that we are in compliance with all
    applicable regulations. In addition, the FDA conducts
    pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections to
    determine whether our systems and processes are in compliance
    with cGMP and other FDA regulations. Following such inspections,
    the FDA may issue notices on Form 483 and Warning Letters
    that could cause us to modify certain activities identified
    during the inspection. A Form 483 notice is generally
    issued at the conclusion of a FDA inspection and lists
    conditions the FDA inspectors believe may violate cGMP or other
    FDA regulations. FDA guidelines specify that a Warning Letter is
    issued only for violations of “regulatory
    significance” for which the failure to adequately and
    promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an
    enforcement action.


 


    Our manufacturing facility in Corona, California (which
    manufactured products representing approximately 12% of our
    total product net revenues for 2008) is currently subject
    to a consent decree of permanent injunction. We cannot assure
    that the FDA will determine we have adequately corrected
    deficiencies at our Corona manufacturing site, that subsequent
    FDA inspections at any of our manufacturing sites will not
    result in additional inspectional observations at such sites,
    that approval of any of the pending or subsequently submitted
    NDAs, ANDAs or supplements to such applications by Watson or our
    subsidiaries will be granted or that the FDA will not seek to
    impose additional sanctions against Watson or any of its
    subsidiaries. The range of possible sanctions includes, among
    others, FDA issuance of adverse publicity, product recalls or
    seizures, fines, total or partial suspension of production
    and/or
    distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of product
    applications, enforcement actions, injunctions, and civil or
    criminal prosecution. Any such sanctions, if imposed, could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, operating results,
    financial condition and cash flows. Under certain circumstances,
    the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug
    approvals. Similar sanctions as detailed above may be available
    to the FDA under a consent decree, depending upon the actual
    terms of such decree. Although we have instituted internal
    compliance programs, if these programs do not meet regulatory
    agency standards or if compliance is deemed deficient in any
    significant way, it could materially harm our business. Certain
    of our vendors are subject to similar regulation and periodic
    inspections.


 


    The process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture
    and market pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming
    and costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be
    affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We are
    dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental or third-party
    approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping our
    products. Consequently, there is always the chance that we will
    not obtain FDA or other necessary approvals, or that the rate,
    timing and cost of obtaining such approvals, will adversely
    affect our product introduction plans or results of operations.
    We carry inventories of certain product(s) in anticipation of
    launch, and if such product(s) are not subsequently launched, we
    may be required to write off the related inventory.


 


    Our Distribution operations and our customers are subject to
    various regulatory requirements, including requirements from the
    DEA, FDA, state boards of pharmacy and city and county health
    regulators, among others. These include licensing, registration,
    recordkeeping, security and reporting requirements. In
    particular, several states and the federal government have begun
    to enforce anti-counterfeit drug pedigree laws which require the
    tracking of all transactions involving prescription drugs
    beginning with the manufacturer, through the supply chain, and
    down to the pharmacy or other health care provider dispensing or
    administering prescription drug products. For example, effective
    July 1, 2006, the Florida Department of Health, began
    enforcement of the drug pedigree requirements for distribution
    of prescription drugs in the State of Florida. Pursuant to
    Florida law and regulations, wholesalers and distributors,
    including our subsidiary, Anda Pharmaceuticals, are required to
    maintain records documenting the chain of custody of
    prescription drug products they distribute beginning with the
    purchase of products from the manufacturer. These entities are
    required to provide documentation of the prior transaction(s) to
    their customers in Florida, including pharmacies and other
    health care entities. Several other states have proposed or
    enacted legislation to implement similar or more stringent drug
    pedigree requirements. In addition, federal law requires that a
    “non-authorized distributor of record” must provide a
    drug pedigree documenting the prior purchase of a prescription
    drug from the manufacturer or from an “authorized
    distributor of record.” In cases where the wholesaler or
    distributor selling the drug product is not deemed an
    “authorized distributor of record” it would need to
    maintain such records. FDA had announced its intent to impose
    additional drug pedigree requirements (e.g., tracking of lot
    numbers



    
    30



Table of Contents




    and documentation of all transactions) through implementation of
    drug pedigree regulations which were to have taken effect on
    December 1, 2006. However, a federal appeals court has
    issued a preliminary injunction to several wholesale
    distributors granting an indefinite stay of these regulations
    pending a challenge to the regulations by these wholesale
    distributors.


 



    Federal
    regulation of arrangements between manufacturers of brand and
    generic products could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    As part of the MMA, companies are required to file with the FTC
    and the Department of Justice certain types of agreements
    entered into between brand and generic pharmaceutical companies
    related to the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic
    versions of brand drugs. This requirement could affect the
    manner in which generic drug manufacturers resolve intellectual
    property litigation and other disputes with brand pharmaceutical
    companies and could result generally in an increase in
    private-party litigation against pharmaceutical companies or
    additional investigations or proceedings by the FTC or other
    governmental authorities. The impact of this requirement, and
    the potential private-party lawsuits associated with
    arrangements between brand name and generic drug manufacturers,
    is uncertain and could adversely affect our business. For
    example, in January 2009 the FTC and the State of California
    filed a lawsuit against us alleging that our settlement with
    Solvay related to our ANDA for a generic version of
    Androgel®

    is unlawful. In February 2009 several private parties purporting
    to represent various classes of plaintiffs filed similar
    lawsuits. Additionally, we have received requests for
    information, in the form of civil investigative demands or
    subpoenas, from the FTC, and are subject to ongoing FTC
    investigations, concerning our settlement with Cephalon related
    to our ANDA for a generic version of
    Provigil®,

    and our agreement with Sandoz to relinquish our Hatch-Waxman
    marketing exclusivity on our ANDA for a 50 mg. generic
    version of Toprol
    XL®.

    Any adverse outcome of these actions or investigations, or
    actions or investigations related to other settlements we have
    entered into, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.


 



    Healthcare
    reform and a reduction in the reimbursement levels by
    governmental authorities, HMOs, MCOs or other third-party payers
    may adversely affect our business.


 


    In order to assist us in commercializing products, we have
    obtained from government authorities and private health insurers
    and other organizations, such as HMOs and MCOs, authorization to
    receive reimbursement at varying levels for the cost of certain
    products and related treatments. Third-party payers increasingly
    challenge pricing of pharmaceutical products. The trend toward
    managed healthcare in the U.S., the growth of organizations such
    as HMOs and MCOs and legislative proposals to reform healthcare
    and government insurance programs could significantly influence
    the purchase of pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower
    prices and a reduction in product demand. Such cost containment
    measures and healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell
    our products and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows. Additionally, there is uncertainty surrounding the
    implementation of the provisions of Part D of the MMA, and
    the possibility that such provisions will be amended. Depending
    on how such provisions are implemented or amended, reimbursement
    may not be available for some of Watson’s products.
    Additionally, any reimbursement granted may not be maintained or
    limits on reimbursement available from third-party payers may
    reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, those
    products and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows. We may also be subject to lawsuits relating to
    reimbursement programs that could be costly to defend, divert
    management’s attention and adversely affect our operating
    results.


 



    The
    pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.


 


    We face strong competition in both our Generic and Brand product
    businesses. The intensely competitive environment requires an
    ongoing, extensive search for technological innovations and the
    ability to market products effectively, including the ability to
    communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of brand
    products to healthcare professionals in private practice, group
    practices and MCOs. Our competitors vary depending upon product
    categories, and within each product category, upon dosage
    strengths and drug-delivery systems.



    
    31



Table of Contents




    Based on total assets, annual revenues, and market
    capitalization, we are smaller than certain of our national and
    international competitors in the brand product arena. Most of
    our competitors have been in business for a longer period of
    time than Watson, have a greater number of products on the
    market and have greater financial and other resources than we
    do. If we directly compete with them for the same markets
    and/or
    products, their financial strength could prevent us from
    capturing a profitable share of those markets. It is possible
    that developments by our competitors will make our products or
    technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.


 


    Revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic
    pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on
    certain regulatory and competitive factors. As patents for brand
    name products and related exclusivity periods expire, the first
    generic manufacturer to receive regulatory approval for generic
    equivalents of such products is generally able to achieve
    significant market penetration. As competing off-patent
    manufacturers receive regulatory approvals on similar products
    or as brand manufacturers launch generic versions of such
    products (for which no separate regulatory approval is
    required), market share, revenues and gross profit typically
    decline, in some cases dramatically. Accordingly, the level of
    market share, revenue and gross profit attributable to a
    particular generic product normally is related to the number of
    competitors in that product’s market and the timing of that
    product’s regulatory approval and launch, in relation to
    competing approvals and launches. Consequently, we must continue
    to develop and introduce new products in a timely and
    cost-effective manner to maintain our revenues and gross
    margins. Additionally, as new competitors enter the market,
    there may be increased pricing pressure on certain products,
    which would result in lower gross margins. This is particularly
    true in the case of certain Asian and other overseas
    competitors, who may be able to produce products at costs lower
    than the costs of domestic manufacturers. If we experience
    substantial competition from Asian or other overseas competitors
    with lower production costs, our profit margins will suffer.


 


    We also face strong competition in our Distribution business,
    where we compete with a number of large wholesalers and other
    distributors of pharmaceuticals, including McKesson Corporation,
    AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., which
    market both brand and generic pharmaceutical products to their
    customers. These companies are significant customers of our
    pharmaceutical business. As generic products generally have
    higher gross margins for distributors, each of the large
    wholesalers, on an increasing basis, are offering pricing
    incentives on brand products if the customers purchase a large
    portion of their generic pharmaceutical products from the
    primary wholesaler. As we do not offer a full line of brand
    products to our customers, we are at times competitively
    disadvantaged and must compete with these wholesalers based upon
    our very competitive pricing for generic products, greater
    service levels and our well-established telemarketing
    relationships with our customers, supplemented by our electronic
    ordering capabilities. The large wholesalers have historically
    not used telemarketers to sell to their customers, but recently
    have begun to do so. Additionally, generic manufacturers are
    increasingly marketing their products directly to smaller chains
    and thus increasingly bypassing wholesalers and distributors.
    Increased competition in the generic industry as a whole may
    result in increased price erosion in the pursuit of market share.


 


    Sales of our products may continue to be adversely affected by
    the continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the
    concentration of our customer base.


 


    Our principal customers in our Brand and Generic pharmaceutical
    operations are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug
    store chains. These customers comprise a significant part of the
    distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the
    U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo
    significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions
    among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug
    store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale
    distributors and large chain drug stores control a significant
    share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug
    wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other
    competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including Watson.


 


    For the year ended December 31, 2008, our three largest
    customers accounted for 11%, 11% and 9% respectively, of our net
    revenues. The loss of any of these customers could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows. In addition, none of our
    customers are party to any long-term supply agreements with us,
    and thus are able to change suppliers freely should they wish to
    do so.



    
    32



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    ITEM 1B