ITEM 1A.   RISK
FACTORS

CAUTIONARY
NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Any statements made in this report that are not
statements of historical fact or that refer to estimated or anticipated future
events are forward-looking statements. We have based our forward-looking
statements on our management’s beliefs and assumptions based on information
available to our management at the time these statements are made. Such
forward-looking statements reflect our current perspective of our business,
future performance, existing trends and information as of the date of this
filing. These include, but are not limited to, our beliefs about future revenue
and expense levels and growth rates, prospects related to our strategic
initiatives and business strategies, express or implied assumptions about
government regulatory action or inaction, anticipated product approvals and
launches, business initiatives and product development activities, assessments related
to clinical trial results, product performance and competitive environment, and
anticipated financial performance. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe,”
“anticipate,” “intend,” “could,” “would,” “estimate,” “continue,” or “pursue,”
or the negative other variations thereof or comparable terminology, are
intended to identify forward-looking statements. The statements are not
guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and
assumptions that are difficult to predict.


 15 





We caution the reader that these statements are based
on certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our
control. In addition, certain important factors may affect our actual operating
results and could cause such results to differ materially from those expressed
or implied by forward-looking statements. We believe the risks and
uncertainties discussed under the Section entitled “Risks Related to Our
Business,” and other risks and uncertainties detailed herein and from time to
time in our SEC filings, may affect our actual results.

We disclaim any obligation
to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. This
discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995.

Risks Related to Our Business

We operate in a rapidly
changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our
control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are
discussed elsewhere in this annual report. These and other risks could
materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating
results or cash flows.

Risks Associated
With Investing In the Business of Watson

If we
are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new products, our operating
results will suffer.

Our future results
of operations will depend to a significant extent upon our ability to successfully
commercialize new brand and generic products in a timely manner. There are
numerous difficulties in developing and commercializing new products,
including:

·       developing,
testing and manufacturing products in compliance with regulatory standards in a
timely manner;

·       receiving
requisite regulatory approvals for such products in a timely manner;

·       the
availability, on commercially reasonable terms, of raw materials, including
active pharmaceutical ingredients and other key ingredients;

·       developing
and commercializing a new product is time consuming, costly and subject to
numerous factors, including legal actions brought by our competitors, that may
delay or prevent the development and commercialization of new products;

·       experiencing
delays or unanticipated costs; and

·       commercializing
generic products may be substantially delayed by the listing with the FDA of
patents that have the effect of potentially delaying approval of the off-patent
product by up to 30 months.

As a result of these and
other difficulties, products currently in development by Watson may or may not
receive timely regulatory approvals, or approvals at all, necessary for
marketing by Watson or other third-party partners. This risk particularly
exists with respect to the development of proprietary products because of the
uncertainties, higher costs and lengthy time frames associated with research
and development of such products and the inherent unproven market acceptance of
such products. If any of our products, when acquired or developed and approved,
cannot be successfully or timely commercialized, our operating results could be
adversely affected. We cannot guarantee that any investment we make in
developing products will be recouped, even if we are successful in
commercializing those products.


 16 





Our
brand pharmaceutical expenditures may not result in commercially successful
products.

Developing and
commercializing brand pharmaceutical products is more costly than generic
products. During 2005, we increased our planned expenditures for the
development and marketing of our brand business. During 2006 and thereafter, we
may further increase the amounts we expend for our brand business segment. For
example, we plan to initiate Phase III clinical studies during 2006 on our next
generation Oxytrol® product and will incur ongoing expenditures for the Phase
III clinical studies on our silodosin product for treatment of benign prostatic
hyperplasia. We cannot be sure these business expenditures will result in the
successful discovery, development or launch of brand products that will prove
to be commercially successful or will improve the long-term profitability of
our business, which would adversely affect our results of operations and
financial condition.

Our
gross profit may fluctuate from period to period depending upon our product
sales mix, our product pricing, and our costs to manufacture or purchase
products.

Our future results
of operations, financial condition and cash flows depend to a significant
extent upon our brand and generic product sales mix. Our sales of brand
products tend to create higher gross margins than our sales of generic products.
As a result, our sales mix (the proportion of total sales between brand
products and generic products) will significantly impact our gross profit from
period to period. During 2005, sales of our brand products and generic products
accounted for approximately 24% and 76%, respectively, of our net product sales.
During that same period, brand products and generic products contributed
approximately 38% and 62%, respectively, to our gross profits. Factors that may
cause our sales mix to vary include:

·       the
amount of new product introductions;

·       marketing
exclusivity, if any, which may be obtained on certain brand products;

·       the
level of competition in the marketplace for certain products;

·       the
availability of raw materials and finished products from our suppliers;

·       the
scope and outcome of governmental regulatory action that may involve us; and

·       periodic
dependence on a small number of products for a significant portion of net
revenue or income.

The profitability of our
product sales is also dependent upon the prices we are able to charge for our
products, the costs to purchase products from third parties, and our ability to
manufacture our products in a cost effective manner.

Loss
of revenues from Ferrlecit®, a significant product, could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash
flows.

During 2004 we lost
regulatory exclusivity on our Ferrlecit® product, which will allow generic
applicants to submit ANDAs for Ferrlecit®. In 2005, Ferrlecit® accounted for
approximately 9% of our net revenues and 16% of our gross profit. In February 2004,
we submitted a Citizen’s Petition to the FDA requesting that the FDA not
approve any ANDA for a generic version of Ferrlecit® until certain
manufacturing, physiochemical and safety and efficacy criteria are satisfied. During
the third quarter of 2004, we submitted a second Citizen’s Petition to the FDA
requesting that the FDA refuse to accept for substantive review any ANDA
referencing Ferrlecit® until the FDA establishes guidelines for determining
whether the generic product is the same complex as Ferrlecit®. We cannot
predict whether the FDA will grant or deny our Citizen’s Petitions or when it
may take such action. We believe it will be difficult for a competitor to
demonstrate to the FDA that its product is the same as Ferrlecit® and that, in
the absence of such a showing, the FDA should require the applicant to submit
an NDA supported by clinical studies, 


 17 





independently
demonstrating safety and efficacy. However, if a generic version of Ferrlecit®
or other competitive product is approved by the FDA and enters the market, our
net revenues could significantly decline, which could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

If we
are unsuccessful in our joint ventures and other collaborations, our operating
results could suffer.

We have made substantial
investments in joint ventures and other collaborations and may use these and
other methods to develop or commercialize products in the future. These
arrangements typically involve other pharmaceutical companies as partners that
may be competitors of ours in certain markets. In many instances, we will not
control these joint ventures or collaborations or the commercial exploitation
of the licensed products, and cannot assure you that these ventures will be
profitable. Although restrictions contained in certain of these programs have
not had a material adverse impact on the marketing of our own products to date,
any such marketing restrictions could affect future revenues and have a
material adverse effect on our operations. Our results of operations may suffer
if existing joint ventures or collaboration partners withdraw, or if these
products are not timely developed, approved or successfully commercialized.

If we
are unable to adequately protect our technology or enforce our patents, our
business could suffer.

Our success with the brand products that we develop
will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for these
products. We currently have a number of U.S. and foreign patents issued and
pending. We cannot be sure that we will receive patents for any of our pending
patent applications or any patent applications we may file in the future. If
our current and future patent applications are not approved or, if approved, if
such patents are not upheld in a court of law if challenged, it may reduce our
ability to competitively exploit our patented products. Also, such patents may
or may not provide competitive advantages for their respective products or they
may be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, in which case our ability
to commercially market these products may be diminished.

We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how
that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our
partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is possible that these
agreements will be breached or that they will not be enforceable in every
instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. It
is also possible that our trade secrets will become known or independently
developed by our competitors.

If we are unable to
adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or propriety know-how, or
enforce our patents, our results of operations, financial condition and cash
flows could suffer.

If
brand pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of generics through
their legislative and regulatory efforts, our sales of generic products may
suffer.

Many brand
pharmaceutical companies increasingly have used state and federal legislative
and regulatory means to delay generic competition. These efforts have included:

·       pursuing
new patents for existing products which may be granted just before the
expiration of one patent, which could extend patent protection for additional
years or otherwise delay the launch of generics;

·       using
the Citizen’s Petition process to request amendments to FDA standards;

·       seeking
changes to U.S. Pharmacopeia, an organization which publishes industry
recognized compendia of drug standards;

·       attaching
patent extension amendments to non-related federal legislation; and


 18 





·       engaging
in state-by-state initiatives to enact legislation that restricts the
substitution of some generic drugs, which could have an impact on products that
we are developing.

If brand pharmaceutical
companies are successful in limiting the use of generic products through these
or other means, our sales of generic products may decline. If we experience a
material decline in generic product sales, our results of operations, financial
condition and cash flows will suffer.

If
competitors are successful in limiting competition for certain generic products
through their legislative, regulatory and litigation efforts, our sales of
certain generic products may suffer.

Certain of our competitors
have recently challenged our ability to distribute Authorized Generics during
the competitors’ 180 day period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act.
Under the challenged arrangements, we have obtained rights to market and
distribute under a brand manufacturer’s NDA a generic alternative of the brand
product. Some of our competitors have challenged the propriety of these
arrangements by filing Citizen’s Petitions with the FDA, initiating lawsuits
alleging violation of the antitrust and consumer protection laws, and seeking
legislative intervention. The FDA and courts that have considered the subject
to date have ruled that there is no prohibition in the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act against distributing authorized generic versions of a brand drug. However,
the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 added provisions to the Medicaid Rebate
Program that, effective January 1, 2007, may have the effect of increasing
an NDA holder’s Medicaid Rebate liability if it permits another manufacturer to
market an authorized generic version of its brand product. This may affect the
willingness of brand manufacturers to continue arrangements, or enter into
future arrangements, permitting us to market authorized generic versions of
their brand products. If so, or if distribution of authorized generic versions
of brand products is otherwise restricted or found unlawful, it could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and
cash flows.

From
time to time we may need to rely on licenses to proprietary technologies, which
may be difficult or expensive to obtain.

We may need to obtain
licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties to
develop, manufacture and market products. If we are unable to timely obtain
these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially
market our products may be inhibited or prevented.

Third
parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent us
from manufacturing and selling some of our products.

The manufacture, use and
sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have
been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These
lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary
rights of third parties. We may have to defend against charges that we violated
patents or proprietary rights of third parties. This is especially true in the
case of generic products on which the patent covering the brand product is
expiring, an area where infringement litigation is prevalent, and in the case
of new brand products where a competitor has obtained patents for similar
products. Litigation may be costly and time-consuming, and could divert the
attention of our management and technical personnel. In addition, if we
infringe on the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop or
manufacture products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties
to license proprietary rights from third parties. Although the parties to
patent and intellectual property disputes in the pharmaceutical industry have
often settled their disputes through licensing or similar arrangements, the
costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include
ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary
licenses would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. As a
result, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or
failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and
selling a 


 19 





number
of our products, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.

As a
part of our business strategy, we plan to consider and, as appropriate, make
acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses, which may result in us
experiencing difficulties in integrating the technologies, products and
businesses that we acquire and/or experiencing significant charges to earnings
that may adversely affect our stock price and financial condition.

We regularly review potential acquisitions of
technologies, products and businesses complementary to our business. Acquisitions
typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in integrating
operations, personnel, technologies and products. If we are not able to
successfully integrate our acquisitions, we may not obtain the advantages that
the acquisitions were intended to create, which may adversely affect our
business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, our
ability to develop and introduce new products and the market price of our stock.
Integrating two geographically distant companies can be a time consuming and
expensive process. In addition, in connection with acquisitions, we could
experience disruption in our business or employee base, including diversion of
management’s attention from our continuing operations. There is also a risk
that key employees of companies that we acquire or key employees necessary to
successfully commercialize technologies and products that we acquire may seek
employment elsewhere, including with our competitors. Furthermore, there may be
overlap between the products or customers of Watson and the companies that we
acquire that may create conflicts in relationships or other commitments
detrimental to the integrated businesses.

In addition, as a result
of acquiring businesses or products, or entering into other significant
transactions, we have experienced, and will likely continue to experience,
significant charges to earnings for merger and related expenses that may
include transaction costs, closure costs or acquired in-process research and
development charges. These costs may include substantial fees for investment
bankers, attorneys, accountants and financial printing costs and severance and
other closure costs associated with the elimination of duplicate or discontinued
products, operations and facilities. Charges that we may incur in connection
with acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations for
particular quarterly or annual periods.

If we
are unable to obtain sufficient supplies from key suppliers that in some cases
may be the only source of finished products or raw materials, our ability to
deliver our products to the market may be impeded.

We are required to identify the supplier(s) of
all the raw materials for our products in our applications with the FDA. To the
extent practicable, we attempt to identify more than one supplier in each drug
application. However, some products and raw materials are available only from a
single source and, in some of our drug applications, only one supplier of products
and raw materials has been identified, even in instances where multiple sources
exist. Among others, this includes products that have historically accounted
for a significant portion of our revenues, such as Ferrlecit®, bupropion
sustained release tablets and a significant number of our oral contraceptive
products. From time to time, certain of our outside suppliers have experienced
regulatory or supply-related difficulties that have inhibited their ability to
deliver products and raw materials to us, causing supply delays or
interruptions. To the extent any difficulties experienced by our suppliers
cannot be resolved within a reasonable time, and at reasonable cost, or if raw
materials for a particular product become unavailable from an approved supplier
and we are required to qualify a new supplier with the FDA, our profit margins
and market share for the affected product could decrease, as well as delay our
development and sales and marketing efforts.

Our arrangements with
foreign suppliers are subject to certain additional risks, including the
availability of government clearances, export duties, political instability,
war, acts of terrorism, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the transfer
of funds. For example, we obtain a significant portion of our raw materials
from foreign suppliers. Arrangements with international raw material suppliers
are subject 


 20 





to,
among other things, FDA regulation, customs clearances, various import duties
and other government clearances. Acts of governments outside the U.S. may
affect the price or availability of raw materials needed for the development or
manufacture of our products. In addition, recent changes in patent laws in
jurisdictions outside the U.S. may make it increasingly difficult to obtain raw
materials for research and development prior to the expiration of the
applicable U.S. or foreign patents.

Our
policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and marketing programs
adopted by wholesalers, may reduce our revenues in future fiscal periods.

Based on industry
practice, generic product manufacturers, including Watson, have liberal return
policies and have been willing to give customers post-sale inventory allowances.
Under these arrangements, from time to time, we give our customers credits on our
generic products that our customers hold in inventory after we have decreased
the market prices of the same generic products. Therefore, if new competitors
enter the marketplace and significantly lower the prices of any of their
competing products, we would likely reduce the price of our product. As a
result, we would be obligated to provide significant credits to our customers
who are then holding inventories of such products, which could reduce sales
revenue and gross margin for the period the credit is provided. Like our
competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to wholesale customers that
have contracts with us for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing
organizations, pharmacies or other retail customers. A
chargeback represents an amount payable in the future to a wholesaler for the
difference between the invoice price paid to us by our wholesale customer for a
particular product and the negotiated contract price that the wholesaler’s
customer pays for that product. Although we establish reserves based on
our prior experience and our best estimates of the impact that these policies
may have in subsequent periods, we cannot ensure that our reserves are adequate
or that actual product returns, allowances and chargebacks will not exceed our estimates,
which could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and market
price of our stock.

Investigations
of the calculation of average wholesale prices may adversely affect our
business.

Many government and
third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, HMOs and MCOs, reimburse
doctors and others for the purchase of certain prescription drugs based on a
drug’s AWP. In the past several years, state and federal government agencies
have conducted ongoing investigations of manufacturers’ reporting practices
with respect to AWP, in which they have suggested that reporting of inflated
AWP’s have led to excessive payments for prescription drugs. For example,
beginning in July 2002, we and certain of our subsidiaries, as well as
numerous other pharmaceutical companies, were named as defendants in various
state and federal court actions alleging improper or fraudulent practices
related to the reporting of AWP of certain products, and other improper acts,
in order to increase prices and market shares. Additional actions are
anticipated. These actions, if successful, could adversely affect us and may
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows.

The
design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involves the risk of
product liability claims by consumers and other third parties, and insurance
against such potential claims is expensive and may be difficult to obtain.

The design, development,
manufacture and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product
liability claims and the associated adverse publicity. Insurance coverage is
expensive and may be difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the
future on acceptable terms, or at all. Although we currently maintain product
liability insurance for our products in amounts we believe to be commercially
reasonable, if the coverage limits of these insurance policies are not
adequate, a claim brought against Watson, whether covered by insurance or not,
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows.


 21 





The
loss of our key personnel could cause our business to suffer.

The success of our present
and future operations will depend, to a significant extent, upon the experience,
abilities and continued services of key personnel. For example, although we
have other senior management personnel, a significant loss of the services of
Allen Chao, Ph.D., our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or other senior
executive officers, could cause our business to suffer. We cannot assure you
that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel. We have entered into
employment agreements with all of our senior executive officers, including Dr. Chao.
We do not carry key-man life insurance on any of our officers.

Rising
insurance costs could negatively impact profitability.

The cost of insurance,
including workers compensation, product liability and general liability
insurance, have risen significantly in recent years and may increase in 2006. In
response, we may increase deductibles and/or decrease certain coverages to
mitigate these costs. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased
deductibles and reduced coverages, could have a negative impact on our results
of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Implementation
of enterprise resource planning systems could cause business interruptions and
negatively affect our profitability and cash flows.

From time to time, we may
implement new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) systems and software, or
upgrades to existing systems and software, to further enhance our operations. Implementation
of ERP systems and software carry risks such as cost overruns, project delays
and business interruptions and delays. If we experience a material business
interruption as a result of such implementations, it could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and
cash flows.

Significant
balances of intangible assets, including product rights and goodwill acquired,
are subject to impairment testing and may result in impairment charges, which
will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

A significant amount of our total assets is related to
acquired product rights and goodwill. As of December 31, 2005, the
carrying value of our product rights and other intangible assets was
approximately $750 million and the carrying value of our goodwill was
approximately $460 million.

Our product rights are stated at cost, less accumulated
amortization. We determine original fair value and amortization periods for
product rights based on our assessment of various factors impacting estimated
useful lives and cash flows of the acquired products. Such factors include the
product’s position in its life cycle, the existence or absence of like products
in the market, various other competitive and regulatory issues and contractual
terms. Significant changes to any of these factors would require us to perform
an impairment test on the affected asset and, if evidence of impairment exists,
we would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to the asset. Such
a charge would adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition.

Goodwill is tested for
impairment annually and when events occur or circumstances change that could
potentially reduce the fair value of the reporting unit. Impairment testing
compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount. An
impairment, if any, would be recorded in operating income and could have a
significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition.

Issuance
of debt or equity securities could materially change our operating results and
financial condition.

We may consider issuing
additional debt or equity securities in the future to fund potential
acquisitions or investments, to refinance existing debt, or for general
corporate purposes. If a material 


 22 





acquisition
or investment is completed, our operating results and financial condition could
change materially in future periods. However, no assurance can be given that
additional funds will be available on satisfactory terms, or at all, to fund
such activities.

Risks Relating To
Investing In the Pharmaceutical Industry

Extensive
industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on
our business, especially our product development, manufacturing and
distribution capabilities.

All pharmaceutical companies, including Watson, are
subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the federal
government, principally the FDA and to a lesser extent by the DEA and state
government agencies. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled
Substances Act and other federal statutes and regulations govern or influence
the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety,
approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products.

Under these regulations, we are subject to periodic
inspection of our facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of
our products by the FDA, the DEA and other authorities, which conduct periodic
inspections to confirm that we are in compliance with all applicable
regulations. In addition, the FDA conducts pre-approval and post-approval
reviews and plant inspections to determine whether our systems and processes
are in compliance with cGMP and other FDA regulations. Following such
inspections, the FDA may issue notices on Form 483 and warning letters
that could cause us to modify certain activities identified during the
inspection. A Form 483 notice is generally issued at the conclusion of a
FDA inspection and lists conditions the FDA inspectors believe may violate cGMP
or other FDA regulations. FDA guidelines specify that a warning letter is issued
only for violations of “regulatory significance” for which the failure to
adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an
enforcement action.

Our principal manufacturing facility in Corona,
California (which manufactured products representing approximately 17% of our
total product net revenues for 2005) is currently subject to a consent decree
of permanent injunction. We cannot assure you that the FDA will determine that
we have adequately corrected deficiencies at our manufacturing sites (including
the one referenced above), that subsequent FDA inspections will not result in
additional inspectional observations at such sites, that approval of any of the
pending or subsequently submitted NDAs, ANDAs or supplements to such applications
by Watson or its subsidiaries will be granted or that the FDA will not seek to
impose additional sanctions against Watson or any of its subsidiaries. The
range of possible sanctions includes, among others, FDA issuance of adverse
publicity, product recalls or seizures, fines, total or partial suspension of
production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of product
applications, enforcement actions, injunctions, and civil or criminal
prosecution. Any such sanctions, if imposed, could materially harm our
operating results and financial condition. Under certain circumstances, the FDA
also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Similar
sanctions as detailed above may be available to the FDA under a consent decree,
depending upon the actual terms of such decree. Although we have instituted
internal compliance programs, if these programs do not meet regulatory agency
standards or if compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could
materially harm our business. Certain of our vendors are subject to similar
regulation and periodic inspections.

The process for obtaining
governmental approval to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products is
rigorous, time-consuming and costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which
we may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We are dependent
on receiving FDA and other governmental or third-party approvals prior to
manufacturing, marketing and shipping our products. Consequently, there is
always the chance that we will not obtain FDA or other necessary approvals, or
that the rate, timing and cost of such approvals, will adversely affect our
product introduction plans or results of 


 23 





operations.
We carry inventories of certain product(s) in anticipation of launch, and
if such product(s) are not subsequently launched, we may be required to
write-off the related inventory.

Federal
regulation of arrangements between manufacturers of brand and generic products
could adversely affect our business.

As part of the MMA,
companies are required to file with the FTC and the Department of Justice
certain types of agreements entered into between brand and generic
pharmaceutical companies related to the manufacture, marketing and sale of
generic versions of brand drugs. This requirement could affect the manner in
which generic drug manufacturers resolve intellectual property litigation and
other disputes with brand pharmaceutical companies and could result generally
in an increase in private-party litigation against pharmaceutical companies or
additional investigations or proceedings by the FTC or other governmental
authorities. The impact of this requirement, and the potential private-party
lawsuits associated with arrangements between brand name and generic drug
manufacturers, is uncertain and could adversely affect our business.

Healthcare
reform and a reduction in the reimbursement levels by governmental authorities,
HMOs, MCOs or other third-party payors may adversely affect our business.

In order to assist us in
commercializing products, we have obtained from government authorities and
private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs and MCOs,
authorization to receive reimbursement at varying levels for the cost of
certain products and related treatments. Third party payors increasingly
challenge pricing of pharmaceutical products. The trend toward managed
healthcare in the U.S., the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and
legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could
significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, resulting in
lower prices and a reduction in product demand. Such cost containment measures
and healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell our products and may
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition. Additionally, there is uncertainty surrounding the
implementation of the provisions of Part D of the MMA. Depending on how
such provisions are implemented, reimbursement may not be available for some of
Watson’s products. Additionally, any reimbursement granted may not be
maintained or limits on reimbursement available from third-party payors may
reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, those products and
could harm significantly our business, results of operations, financial
condition and cash flows. We may also be subject to lawsuits relating to
reimbursement programs that could be costly to defend, divert management’s
attention and adversely affect our operating results.

The
pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.

We face strong competition in both our generic and
brand product businesses. The intensely competitive environment requires an
ongoing, extensive search for technological innovations and the ability to
market products effectively, including the ability to communicate the
effectiveness, safety and value of brand products to healthcare professionals
in private practice, group practices and MCOs. Our competitors vary depending
upon product categories, and within each product category, upon dosage
strengths and drug-delivery systems. Based on total assets, annual revenues,
and market capitalization, we are smaller than certain of our national and
international competitors in the brand product arena. Most of our competitors
have been in business for a longer period of time than Watson, have a greater
number of products on the market and have greater financial and other resources
than we do. If we directly compete with them for the same markets and/or products,
their financial strength could prevent us from capturing a profitable share of
those markets. It is possible that developments by our competitors will make
our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.


 24 





Revenues and gross profit
derived from the sales of generic pharmaceutical products tend to follow a
pattern based on certain regulatory and competitive factors. As patents for
brand name products and related exclusivity periods expire, the first generic
manufacturer to receive regulatory approval for generic equivalents of such
products is generally able to achieve significant market penetration. As
competing off-patent manufacturers receive regulatory approvals on similar
products or as brand manufacturers launch generic versions of such products
(for which no separate regulatory approval is required), market share, revenues
and gross profit typically decline, in some cases dramatically. Accordingly,
the level of market share, revenue and gross profit attributable to a
particular generic product normally is related to the number of competitors in
that product’s market and the timing of that product’s regulatory approval and
launch, in relation to competing approvals and launches. Consequently, we must
continue to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective
manner to maintain our revenues and gross margins. Additionally, as new
competitors enter the market, there may be increased pricing pressure on
certain products, which would result in lower gross margins. This is particularly
true in the case of certain Asian and other overseas competitors, who may be
able to produce products at costs lower than the costs of domestic
manufacturers. If we experience substantial competition from Asian or other
overseas competitors with lower production costs, our profit margins will
suffer.

Sales
of our products may continue to be adversely affected by the continuing
consolidation of our distribution network and the concentration of our customer
base.

Our principal customers are wholesale drug
distributors and major retail drug store chains. These customers comprise a
significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the
U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant
consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors
and the growth of large retail drug store chains. As a result, a small number
of large wholesale distributors and large chain drug stores control a
significant share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug
wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other competitive pressures
on drug manufacturers, including Watson.

For the year ended December 31,
2005, our four largest customers accounted for 16%, 13%, 10% and 9%
respectively, of our net revenues. The loss of any of these customers could
materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial
condition and our cash flows. In addition, none of our customers are party to
any long-term supply agreements with us, and thus are able to change suppliers
freely should they wish to do so.

ITEM 1B