ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS-CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING
    FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS” in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    (“Annual Report”).


 



    Acquisition
    of Arrow


 


    On December 2, 2009, Watson completed its acquisition of
    all the outstanding shares of common stock of Robin Hood
    Holdings Limited, a Malta private limited liability company, and
    Cobalt Laboratories, Inc., a Delaware corporation (together the
    “Arrow Group”) for cash, stock and certain contingent
    consideration (the “Arrow Acquisition”). In accordance
    with the terms of the share purchase agreement dated
    June 16, 2009, as amended on November 26, 2009
    (together the “Acquisition Agreement”), the Company
    acquired all the outstanding shares of common stock of the Arrow
    Group for the following consideration:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The payment of cash and the assumption of certain liabilities
    totaling $1.05 billion;




 



     
        • 

    
    Approximately 16.9 million restricted shares of Common
    Stock of Watson (the “Restricted Common Stock”);




 



     
        • 

    
    200,000 shares of newly designated mandatorily redeemable,
    non-voting Series A Preferred Stock of Watson (the
    “Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Stock”) placed in an
    indemnity escrow account for the benefit of the former
    shareholders of the Arrow Group (the “Arrow Selling
    Shareholders”). The Arrow Selling Shareholders will be
    entitled to the proceeds of the Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred
    Stock in 2012, less the amount of any indemnity
    payments; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Certain contingent consideration based on the after-tax gross
    profits on sales of the authorized generic version of
    Lipitor®

    (atorvastatin) in the U.S. calculated and payable as
    described in the Acquisition Agreement.





 


    Arrow Group operating results are included in the Global
    Generics segment subsequent to the date of acquisition.


 


    As part of the Arrow Acquisition, Watson acquired a 36%
    ownership interest in Eden Biopharm Group Limited
    (“Eden”), a company which provides development and
    manufacturing services for early-stage biotech





    
    3



Table of Contents





    companies, which will provide a long-term foundation for the
    development of generic biologics. In January 2010, we purchased
    the remaining 64% interest in Eden for $15.0 million.
    Eden’s results are included in our Global Brands segment.
    Eden will maintain its established contract services model,
    while providing the Company with biopharmaceutical development
    and manufacturing capabilities.


 



    Business
    Description


 


    Prescription pharmaceutical products in the U.S. generally
    are marketed as either generic or brand pharmaceuticals. Generic
    pharmaceutical products are bioequivalents of their respective
    brand products and provide a cost-efficient alternative to brand
    products. Brand pharmaceutical products are marketed under brand
    names through programs that are designed to generate physician
    and consumer loyalty. Through our Distribution Segment, we
    distribute pharmaceutical products, primarily generics, which
    have been commercialized by us and others, to pharmacies and
    physicians’ offices. As a result of the differences between
    the types of products we market
    and/or
    distribute and the methods we distribute products, we operate
    and manage our business as three operating segments: Global
    Generics, Global Brands and Distribution. Outside the U.S., our
    operations are primarily in Western Europe and Canada. In many
    of these markets, there is limited generic substitution by
    pharmacists and as a result, products are often promoted to
    pharmacies. Therefore, physician and pharmacist loyalty to a
    specific company’s generic product can be a significant
    factor in obtaining market share.


 



    Business
    Strategy


 


    We apply three key strategies to grow our Global Generics and
    Global Brands pharmaceutical businesses: (i) internal
    development of differentiated and high demand products,
    (ii) establishment of strategic alliances and
    collaborations and (iii) acquisition of products and
    companies that complement our current business. We believe our
    three-pronged strategy will allow us to expand both our brand
    and generic product offerings. Our Distribution business
    distributes products for over 200 suppliers and is focused on
    providing
    next-day
    delivery and responsive service to its customers. Our
    Distribution business also distributes a number of Watson
    generic and brand products. Growth in our Distribution business
    will be largely dependent upon FDA approval of new generic
    products in the U.S.


 


    With the Arrow Acquisition in 2009, we now have commercial
    operations in a number of established international markets with
    the opportunity for rapid growth in many emerging markets around
    the world. We believe a global presence will allow us to expand
    our revenue base and manage risk through diversification. We
    expect to capitalize on opportunities for growth within these
    new markets. Additionally, we will continue to look for
    opportunities to enhance these capabilities through further
    strategic collaborations or acquisitions.


 


    Based upon business conditions, our financial strength and other
    factors, we regularly reexamine our business strategies and may
    change them at anytime. See “ITEM 1A. RISK
    FACTORS — Risks Related to Our Business” in this
    Annual Report.


 



    Global
    Generics Segment


 


    Watson is a leader in the development, manufacturing and sale of
    generic pharmaceutical products. When patents or other
    regulatory exclusivity no longer protect a brand product,
    opportunities exist to introduce generic counterparts to the
    brand product. These generic products are bioequivalent to their
    brand name counterparts and are generally sold at significantly
    lower prices than the brand product. As such, generic
    pharmaceuticals provide an effective and cost-efficient
    alternative to brand products. Our portfolio of generic products
    includes products we have developed internally, products we have
    licensed from third parties and products we distribute for third
    parties. Net revenues in our Global Generics segment accounted
    for $2.3 billion or approximately 66% of our total net
    revenues in 2010. At December 31, 2010, our global generics
    business in the U.S. remains the dominant source of revenue
    for the Company with approximately 80% of total generic net
    revenues coming from our U.S. businesses.




    
    4



Table of Contents






    Global
    Generics Strategy


 


    Our Global Generics business is focused on maintaining a leading
    position within the U.S. generics market and strengthening
    our global position by offering a consistent and reliable supply
    of quality generic products. We are leveraging our broad product
    line by expanding commercial operations outside of the U.S.


 


    Our strategy in the U.S. is to develop generic
    pharmaceuticals that are difficult to formulate or manufacture
    or will complement or broaden our existing product lines.
    Internationally, our strategy is to grow our market share in key
    markets while expanding our presence in new markets. We plan to
    accomplish this through new product launches, filing existing
    products overseas and in-licensing products through strategic
    alliances. Since the sales and unit volumes of our brand
    products will likely decrease upon the introduction of generic
    alternatives, we also intend to market generic alternatives to
    our brand products where market conditions and the competitive
    environment justify such activities. Additionally, we distribute
    generic versions of third parties’ brand products
    (sometimes known as “Authorized Generics”) to the
    extent such arrangements are complementary to our core business.


 


    We have maintained an ongoing effort to enhance efficiencies and
    reduce costs in our manufacturing operations. Execution of these
    initiatives will allow us to maintain competitive pricing on our
    products.


 



    Global
    Generics Business Development


 


    In conjunction with our strategy to grow and expand
    internationally and diversify our business, on October 4,
    2010, we announced a partnership with Moksha8 Pharmaceuticals
    Inc. (“Moksha8”) for Moksha8 to market a select number
    of our products in Latin America, specifically in the two
    largest Latin American markets of Brazil and Mexico. Watson
    agreed to make an initial $30.0 million investment in
    exchange for a significant minority ownership position in
    Moksha8. We have also committed to invest an additional
    $20.0 million, further increasing our equity position,
    contingent upon successful execution by Moksha8 of additional
    third-party product acquisitions. In conjunction with our
    investment in Moksha8, we have also designated a representative
    to serve as a member of the Moksha8 board of directors. Watson
    will manufacture and supply select products to Moksha8, which
    will have exclusive rights to market, sell and distribute these
    products in Brazil and Mexico. Moksha8 and Watson have initially
    identified approximately one dozen product candidates, with the
    opportunity to expand the commercialization and marketing
    agreement to include additional products in the future. The
    products are expected to be launched beginning in the first half
    of 2011.


 


    In 2010, Watson entered into an exclusive agreement with
    Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“OMJPI”),
    to market the Authorized Generic version of
    Concerta®

    (methylphenidate hydrochloride). Under the terms of the
    agreement, OMJPI will supply Watson with the product. Watson
    will launch its Authorized Generic of
    Concerta®

    on May 1, 2011, or earlier under certain circumstances.




    
    5



Table of Contents






    Global
    Generics Product Portfolio


 


    Our portfolio of approximately 160 generic pharmaceutical
    product families in the U.S. includes the following key
    products which represented approximately 57% of total Global
    Generics segment product revenues in 2010:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Watson Generic Product


 


    Comparable Brand Name


 


    Therapeutic Classification



 





Azurettetm



 


    Mircette®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Bupropion hydrochloride SR



 


    Zyban®



 


    Aid to smoking cessation





    Bupropion hydrochloride SR



 


    Wellbutrin
    SR®



 


    Anti-depressant





    Bupropion hydrochloride XL



 


    Wellbutrin
    XL®



 


    Anti-depressant





    Desmopressin acetate



 


    DDAVP®



 


    Antidiuretic





    Diclofenac sodium



 


    Arthrotec®



 


    Osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis





    Diltizem HCl ER



 


    Cardizem®

    LA


 


    Calcium channel blocker





    Dronabinol



 


    Marinol®



 


    Antiemetic





    Fentanyl transdermal system



 


    Duragesic®



 


    Analgesic/narcotic combination





    Glipizide ER



 


    Glucotrol®

    XL


 


    Anti-diabetic





    Hydrocodone bitartrate/
    acetaminophen



 


    Lorcet®,

    Vicodin®,

    Lortab®,

    Norco®/Anexia



 


    Analgesic





    Levora®




 


    Nordette®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Low-Ogestrel®




 


    Lo-Ovral®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Lutera®




 


    Alesse®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Metoprolol succinate



 


    Toprol
    XL®



 


    Anti-hypertensive





    Microgestin®/Microgestin®

    Fe



 


    Loestrin®/Loestrin®

    Fe


 


    Oral contraceptive





    Necon®




 


    Ortho-Novum®,

    Modicon®



 


    Oral contraceptive




Next
Choicetm



 


    Plan
    B®



 


    Emergency oral contraceptive





    Nicotine polacrilex gum



 


    Nicorette®



 


    Aid to smoking cessation





    Oxycodone/acetaminophen



 


    Percocet®



 


    Analgesic





    Potassium chloride ER



 


    Micro-K®



 


    Hypokalemia





    Potassium XR



 


    Augmentin
    XR®



 


    Hypokalemia





    Quasense



 


    Seasonale®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Reclipsen®




 


    Ortho-Cept®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Taztia
    XT®




 


    Tiazac®



 


    Anti-hypertensive




TriNessatm



 


    Ortho
    Tri-Cyclen®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Trivora®




 


    Triphasil®



 


    Oral contraceptive




Zarahtm



 


    Yasmin®



 


    Oral contraceptive





    Zovia®




 


    Demulen®



 


    Oral contraceptive








 


    In the U.S., we predominantly market our generic products to
    various drug wholesalers, mail order, government and national
    retail drug and food store chains utilizing 21 sales and
    marketing professionals. We sell our generic prescription
    products primarily under the “Watson Laboratories” and
    “Watson Pharma” labels, with the exception of our
    over-the-counter
    generic products which we sell under our
    Rugby®

    label or under private label.


 


    During 2010, we expanded our generic product line with the
    launch of seven generic products. Key U.S. generic launches
    in 2010 included diltiazem ER 180 mg and 240 mg,
    metoprolol succinate ER 100 mg and 200 mg,
    valacyclovir, tacrolimus 5 mg,
    Zarahtm

    (a generic version of
    Yasmin®),

    rivastigmine and amlodipine besylate/benazepril.


 


    Watson currently has a leading U.S. market position in
    generic oral contraceptives with over 30 product formulations
    and a 36% market share. Our top five oral contraceptives,
    NextChoicetm,

    Microgestin®,

    TriNessa®,

    Necon®

    and
    Lutera®,

    account for almost 50% of the total Watson oral contraceptives
    portfolio. Key





    
    6



Table of Contents





    oral contraceptive products in the pipeline include generic
    versions of
    Yaz®,

    Seasonique®,

    LoSeasonique®

    and Tri-Cyclen
    Lo®.



 



    Operations
    in Key International Markets


 


    Outside the U.S., our operations are primarily in Western Europe
    and Canada. In many of these markets, there is limited generic
    substitution by pharmacists and as a result, products are often
    promoted to pharmacies. Therefore, physician and pharmacist
    loyalty to a specific company’s generic product can be a
    significant factor in obtaining market share.


 


    In 2010, certain governments in Europe and Canada implemented
    various healthcare reforms in an attempt to manage health care
    budget expenditures. As a result of difficult economic
    conditions in many of these regions, these healthcare reforms
    had a greater than expected impact on our industry when compared
    with previous years, as many governments mandated lower generic
    pricing as a method of cost savings for their annual health care
    expenditures. We expect pricing pressures to continue in many of
    our key markets. However, the impact of government healthcare
    reform in 2011 is expected to be less than in 2010.


 



    Canada


 


    Canada’s generics market, with an estimated value of
    approximately $5.6 billion, is one of the largest generic
    markets in the world. Generic pharmaceuticals are substituted at
    the pharmacy. The provincial governments have direct control
    over pricing and reimbursement in Canada.


 


    Watson’s Global Generics division operates in Canada as
    Cobalt Pharmaceuticals. We actively market 54 products in
    Canada and have 40 sales representatives promoting our products
    to pharmacies.


 



    U.K.


 


    The U.K. generics market has an estimated value of approximately
    $3.6 billion and is one of the world’s largest in
    terms of both size and generic penetration. The U.K. government
    has direct control over pricing and reimbursement.


 


    We now do business in the U.K. as Arrow Generics and currently
    market 100 different products. We also have alliances to assist
    in the distribution of these products.


 



    France


 


    France has an estimated generics market value of approximately
    $3.5 billion. The French government regulates and promotes
    generics and incentivizes pharmacists to dispense them. There
    are approximately 23,000 pharmacies in France. It is a strong
    branded generic market where substitution at the pharmacy level
    is limited.


 


    We now do business in France as Arrow Generiques and market 138
    different molecules. We have over 65 sales representatives
    calling on the individual pharmacies. The generic market is
    expected to grow with doctors incentivized to prescribe
    generics. There are also a number of brand products losing
    exclusivity in 2011, which should create future opportunities
    for growth in this market.


 



    Global
    Generics Research and Development


 


    We devote significant resources to the research and development
    (“R&D”) of generic products and proprietary drug
    delivery technologies. Watson incurred Global Generics segment
    R&D expenses of approximately $195.0 million in 2010,
    $140.0 million in 2009 and $119.0 million in 2008. We
    are presently developing a number of generic products through a
    combination of internal and collaborative programs.




    
    7



Table of Contents





    Our Global Generics R&D strategy focuses on the following
    product development areas:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    off-patent drugs that are difficult to develop or manufacture,
    or that complement or broaden our existing product lines;




 



     
        • 

    
    the development of sustained-release and other drug delivery
    technologies and the application of these technologies to
    proprietary drug forms; and




 



     
        • 

    
    using in-house technologies to develop new products.





 


    As of December 31, 2010, we conducted R&D in Corona,
    California; Copiague, New York; Davie and Weston, Florida; Salt
    Lake City, Utah; Ambernath and Mumbai, India; Mississauga,
    Canada; and Melbourne, Australia. In 2010, we announced plans to
    close R&D facilities in Melbourne, Australia and
    Mississauga, Canada. The transfer of development activities from
    our Melbourne, Australia facility to other existing research and
    development sites will be completed in the first quarter of
    2011. In January 2011, we announced plans to close R&D
    facilities in Corona, California by the end of 2011.


 


    In 2010, our product development efforts resulted in the
    submission of over 30 Abbreviated New Drug Applications
    (“ANDAs”) in the U.S. and more than 145
    applications globally. At December 31, 2010, we had more
    than 120 ANDAs on file in the U.S. and a significant number
    of applications on file internationally. See the
    “Government Regulation and Regulatory Matters” section
    below for a description of our process for obtaining
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”)
    approval for our products. See also “ITEM 1A. RISK
    FACTORS — Risks Related to our Business —
    Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to
    have, a significant impact on our business, especially our
    product development, manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities.” in this Annual Report.


 



    Global
    Brands Segment


 


    Newly developed pharmaceutical products normally are patented
    and, as a result, are generally offered by a single provider
    when first introduced to the market. We currently market a
    number of branded products to physicians, hospitals, and other
    markets that we serve. We classify these patented and off-patent
    trademarked products as our brand pharmaceutical products.
    During 2010, we launched
    Crinone®,

    ella®,

    and
    Trelstar®

    22.5 mg.
    Crinone®

    was acquired from Columbia Laboratories, Inc.
    (“Columbia”) and is currently used for progesterone
    supplementation or replacement as part of an Assisted
    Reproductive Technology treatment for infertile women with a
    progesterone deficiency.
    Ella®

    is an emergency contraceptive proven effective in helping
    prevent pregnancies for up to five days after unprotected
    intercourse or contraceptive failure.
    Trelstar®

    22.5 mg is a
    6-month
    intramuscular GnRH agonist for the palliative treatment of
    advanced prostate cancer. Net revenues in our Global Brands
    segment accounted for approximately $398.0 million or
    approximately 11% of our total net revenues in 2010. Typically,
    our brand products realize higher profit margins than our
    generic products.


 


    Our portfolio of over 30 brand pharmaceutical product families
    includes the following products, which represented approximately
    70% of total Global Brands segment product revenues in 2010:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Watson Brand Product


 


    Active Ingredient


 


    Therapeutic Classification



 






    Androderm®




 


    Testosterone (transdermal patch)


 


    Male testosterone replacement





    Gelnique®




 


    Oxybutnin chloride (gel 10)%


 


    Overactive bladder





    INFeD®




 


    Iron dextran


 


    Hematinic





    Oxytrol®




 


    Oxybutnin (transdermal patch)


 


    Overactive bladder





    Rapaflo®




 


    Silodosin


 


    Benign prostatic hyperplasia





    Trelstar®




 


    Triptorelin pamoate injection


 


    Prostate cancer








 


    We market our brand products through approximately 350 sales
    professionals. Our sales and marketing efforts focus on
    physicians, specifically urologists, obstetricians and
    gynecologists, who specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of
    particular medical conditions and each group offers products to
    satisfy the unique needs of these physicians. Approximately 60
    of these sales professionals are strategic account specialists
    who





    
    8



Table of Contents





    focus on institutions and clinics. We believe this focused sales
    and marketing approach enables us to foster close professional
    relationships with specialty physicians, as well as cover the
    primary care physicians who also prescribe in selected
    therapeutic areas. We generally sell our brand products under
    the “Watson Pharma” label. We believe that the current
    structure of sales professionals is very adaptable to the
    additional products we plan to add to our brand portfolio,
    particularly in the therapeutic category of women’s health.


 


    We actively promote
    Rapaflo®,

    Gelnique®,

    Trelstar®,

    Crinone®,

    ella®

    and
    INFeD®.

    Our Global Brands segment also receives other revenues
    consisting of co-promotion revenue and royalties. We promote
    AndroGel®

    on behalf of Abbott Laboratories (“Abbott”) and
    Femring®

    on behalf of Warner Chilcott Ltd. We expect to continue this
    strategy of supplementing our existing brand revenues with
    co-promoted products within our targeted therapeutic areas.
    Other revenue totaled $81.5 million for 2010 or
    approximately 20% of our total Global Brands segment net revenue.


 



    Global
    Brands Research and Development


 


    We devote significant resources to the R&D of brand
    products and proprietary drug delivery technologies. A number of
    our brand products are protected by patents and have enjoyed
    market exclusivity. We incurred Global Brands segment R&D
    expenses of approximately $102.0 million in 2010,
    $57.0 million in 2009 and $51.0 million in 2008.


 


    Our Global Brands R&D strategy focuses on the following
    product development areas:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the application of proprietary drug-delivery technology for new
    product development in specialty areas; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the acquisition of
    mid-to-late
    development-stage brand drugs.





 


    We are presently developing a number of brand products, some of
    which utilize novel drug-delivery systems, through a combination
    of internal and collaborative programs. We also acquired Eden, a
    company involved in biologics research and development.


 


    Products in the brand pipeline include
    Prochieve®

    8% for the prevention of pre-term birth in women with a short
    cervix, as well as two novel long-acting contraceptives in late
    stage development, a progestin-only patch and a vaginal ring. We
    received approval in December 2010 for a novel chewable oral
    contraceptive licensed from Warner Chilcott Ltd., which we
    expect to launch in the second quarter of 2011. We also have a
    number of products in development as part of our life-cycle
    management strategy on our existing product portfolio.


 



    Biopharmaceuticals
    or Biologics


 


    Biopharmaceuticals will represent a significant opportunity in
    the future, and we have taken strategic steps to enhance our
    ability to offer products in this area. We believe biologics
    will require selling and marketing resources for promotion.
    Therefore, our biologics development efforts are managed by our
    Global Brands division.


 


    In January 2010, we acquired the remaining 64% of Eden for
    approximately $15.0 million, making Eden a wholly-owned
    subsidiary. Eden is a biopharmaceutical development and contract
    manufacturing company located in Liverpool, UK. Eden will
    maintain its established contract services model, while
    providing the Company with proven biopharmaceutical development
    and manufacturing capabilities.


 


    In July 2010, we announced an exclusive, worldwide licensing
    agreement with Itero Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
    (“Itero”), a venture-backed specialty
    biopharmaceutical company, to develop and commercialize
    Itero’s recombinant follicle stimulating hormone
    (“rFSH”) product. The product is currently in
    preclinical development as a biosimilar molecule for the
    treatment of female infertility. Under the terms of the
    agreement, Watson paid Itero an undisclosed licensing fee and
    will make additional payments based on the achievement of
    certain development and regulatory performance milestones. Upon
    successful commercialization, Watson will also pay





    
    9



Table of Contents





    Itero a percentage of net sales or net profits in various
    regions of the world. Watson will assume responsibility for all
    future development, manufacturing, and commercial expenses
    related to Itero’s rFSH product.


 


    The licensing of rFSH is an example of how we plan to enter
    biologics, with products that are past the pre-clinical
    development phase and complement our existing business.


 



    Global
    Brands Business Development


 


    In 2010 we entered into a number of agreements as part of our
    efforts to expand our brand product portfolio, specifically in
    Women’s Health.


 


    In February 2010, we announced an exclusive licensing agreement
    for Watson to become the U.S. commercial partner for
    ella®

    (ulipristal acetate), a selective progesterone receptor
    modulator.
    ella®

    is a novel next-generation emergency contraceptive developed by
    HRA Pharma specifically for emergency contraceptive use. Under
    the terms of the agreement, Watson will be responsible for all
    U.S. commercialization and marketing expenses and pay HRA
    Pharma a royalty on U.S. sales of the product.
    ella®

    was approved by the FDA in August 2010 and launched in the
    U.S. in December 2010. In September 2010, we expanded our
    agreement with HRA Pharma to become the commercial partner for
    ella®

    in Canada.


 


    In March 2010 we announced the acquisition of the exclusive
    U.S. rights to Columbia’s bioadhesive progesterone gel
    business. Products included in the acquisition were
    Crinone®

    for the treatment of infertility and
    Prochieve®

    under development for the prevention of pre-term birth in women
    with a short cervix. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid
    Columbia $62.0 million in cash and agreed to make certain
    contingent payments in return for exclusive progesterone gel
    product rights in the U.S. and 11.2 million newly
    issued shares of Columbia common stock. We also obtained the
    right to designate a member of Columbia’s board of
    directors. Contingent payments will be made upon the successful
    completion of clinical development milestones, receipt of
    regulatory approvals and product launches and could total up to
    $45.5 million. In addition, we will pay a royalty on our
    sales of the progesterone gel product line and any subsequent
    products. Pursuant to a supply agreement, Columbia will be
    responsible for manufacturing the progesterone gel products.
    Following the initial announcement in March 2010, we entered
    into an agreement with Columbia to support Columbia’s
    ongoing investment in the clinical development of the pre-term
    birth indication for
    Prochieve®,

    as well as other Columbia capital requirements.


 


    Following the close of the acquisition, Watson and Columbia
    jointly announced top-line results from the PREGNANT Study, a
    large, global Phase III clinical trial evaluating
    Prochieve®

    8% vaginal progesterone gel to reduce the risk of preterm birth
    in women with a short cervical length as measured by
    transvaginal ultrasound at mid-pregnancy. Columbia expects to
    file a new drug application (“NDA”) in the first half
    of 2011. We plan to collaborate with Columbia in the global
    development of a second-generation vaginal progesterone product.


 


    In March 2010, we announced an exclusive licensing agreement to
    commercialize the Population Council’s investigational
    contraceptive vaginal ring in the United States, Canada, and
    Mexico. The ring, which contains two hormonal
    products — ethinyl estradiol and
    Nestorone®,

    a novel, synthetic progestin, has concluded its Phase 3 clinical
    development and is currently undergoing safety studies customary
    with the introduction of a novel hormonal product.


 


    In December 2010, we announced an exclusive licensing agreement
    with PregLem, S.A., (“PregLem”) now a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of Gedeon Richter Plc, to develop and market
    Esmyatm

    (ulipristal acetate), a product for the treatment of uterine
    fibroids, in the U.S. and Canada. The product MMA has
    recently been submitted for approval in Europe and Watson
    expects to initiate U.S. Phase III clinical studies in
    2011. Under terms of the agreement, Watson paid PregLem a
    $17.0 million license fee and will pay royalties based on
    sales in the U.S. and Canada. Watson will make additional
    payments based on the achievement of certain regulatory
    milestones. The companies will also collaborate on additional
    Esmyatm

    formulations, jointly sharing the development costs.




    
    10



Table of Contents





    Additionally, we intend to market various products within our
    Global Brands segment globally. As part of this strategy, we
    have filed for regulatory approval of a number of our brand
    products with various regulatory agencies internationally
    including
    Rapaflo®,

    Gelnique®

    and
    ella®

    in Canada and
    Gelnique®

    in Europe.


 



    Distribution
    Segment


 


    Our Distribution business, which consists of our Anda, Anda
    Pharmaceuticals and Valmed (also known as “VIP”)
    subsidiaries (collectively “Anda”), primarily
    distributes generic and selected brand pharmaceutical products
    to independent pharmacies, alternate care providers (hospitals,
    nursing homes and mail order pharmacies), pharmacy chains and
    physicians’ offices. Additionally, we sell to members of
    buying groups, which are independent pharmacies that join
    together to enhance their buying power. We believe that we are
    able to effectively compete in the distribution market, and
    therefore optimize our market share, based on three critical
    elements: (i) competitive pricing, (ii) high levels of
    inventory for approximately 8,500 SKUs for responsive customer
    service that includes, among other things, next day delivery to
    the entire U.S., and (iii) well established telemarketing
    relationships with our customers, supplemented by our electronic
    ordering capabilities. While we purchase most of the approximate
    8,500 SKUs in our Distribution operations from third party
    manufacturers, we also utilize these operations for the sale and
    marketing of our own products and our collaborative
    partners’ products. We are the only
    U.S. pharmaceutical company that has meaningful
    distribution operations with direct access to independent
    pharmacies and we believe that our Distribution operation is a
    strategic asset in the national distribution of generic and
    brand pharmaceuticals.


 


    Revenue growth in our distribution operations will primarily be
    dependent on the launch of new products, offset by the overall
    level of net price and unit declines on existing distributed
    products and will be subject to changes in market share.


 


    We presently distribute products from our facilities in Weston,
    Florida and Groveport, Ohio. For the year ended
    December 31, 2010, approximately 67% of our Distribution
    sales were shipped from our Groveport, Ohio facility and 33%
    from our Weston, Florida facility, though this percentage can
    vary. While our Weston, Florida facility is operating at 70%
    capacity, our 355,000 square foot Ohio distribution center
    currently operates at approximately 35% capacity, and provides
    us with additional distribution capacity for the
    U.S. market.


 



    Strategic
    Alliances and Collaborations


 


    In 2004, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with
    Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (“Kissei”) to develop
    and market
    Rapaflo®

    for the North American market. The compound was originally
    developed and launched by Kissei in Japan as
    Urief®

    and is marketed in Japan in cooperation with Daiichi Sankyo
    Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. for the treatment of the signs and
    symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia.


 


    In 2006, we entered into an agreement with Solvay
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Solvay”) to utilize
    Watson’s Brands sales force to co-promote
    AndroGel®

    to urologists in the U.S. In February of 2010, Solvay was
    acquired by Abbott.


 


    We have an exclusive agreement with Pfizer, Inc. to market the
    Authorized Generic version of
    Lipitor®

    (atorvastatin calcium). Under the terms of the agreement,
    Pfizer, Inc. will supply Watson with the product for
    distribution beginning in November 2011 or earlier under certain
    circumstances.


 



    Financial
    Information About Segments


 


    Watson evaluates the performance of its Global Generics, Global
    Brands and Distribution business segments based on net revenues
    and net contribution. Summarized net revenues and contribution
    information for each of the last three fiscal years in the
    U.S. and internationally, where applicable, is presented in
    “NOTE 13 — Reportable Segments” in the
    accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements” in this Annual Report.




    
    11



Table of Contents






    Customers


 


    In our Global Generics and Global Brands operations, we sell our
    generic and brand pharmaceutical products primarily to drug
    wholesalers, retailers and distributors, including national
    retail drug and food store chains, hospitals, clinics, mail
    order, government agencies and managed healthcare providers such
    as health maintenance organizations and other institutions. In
    our Distribution business, we distribute generic and certain
    select brand pharmaceutical products to independent pharmacies,
    members of buying groups, alternate care providers (hospitals,
    nursing homes and mail order pharmacies), pharmacy chains and
    physicians’ offices.


 


    Sales to certain of our customers accounted for 10% or more of
    our annual net revenues during the past three years. The
    following table illustrates any customer, on a global basis,
    which accounted for 10% or more of our annual net revenues and
    the respective percentage of our net revenues for which they
    account for each of the last three years:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Customer


 


    2010


 


    2009


 


    2008



 






    Walgreen Co. 



 


 


    14


    %


 


 


    13


    %


 


 


    11


    %





    McKesson Corporation



 


 


    11


    %


 


 


    11


    %


 


 


    11


    %








 


    McKesson and certain of our other customers comprise a
    significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical
    products in the U.S. As a result, a small number of large,
    wholesale distributors and large chain drug stores control a
    significant share of the market. This concentration may
    adversely impact pricing and create other competitive pressures
    on drug manufacturers. Our Distribution business competes
    directly with our large wholesaler customers with respect to the
    distribution of generic products.


 


    The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows. See “ITEM 1A. RISK
    FACTORS — Risk Relating to Investing in the
    Pharmaceutical Industry” in this Annual Report.


 



    Competition


 


    The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. In our Global
    Generics and Global Brands businesses, we compete with different
    companies depending upon product categories, and within each
    product category, upon dosage strengths and drug delivery
    systems. Such competitors include the major brand name and
    generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical products. In addition to
    product development, other competitive factors in the
    pharmaceutical industry include product quality and price,
    reputation and service and access to proprietary and technical
    information. It is possible that developments by others will
    make our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.


 


    Competing in the brand product business requires us to identify
    and bring to market new products embodying technological
    innovations. Successful marketing of brand products depends
    primarily on the ability to communicate their effectiveness,
    safety and value to healthcare professionals in private
    practice, group practices and receive formulary status from
    managed care organizations. We anticipate that our brand product
    offerings will support our existing areas of therapeutic focus.
    Based upon business conditions and other factors, we regularly
    reevaluate our business strategies and may from time to time
    reallocate our resources from one therapeutic area to another,
    withdraw from a therapeutic area or add an additional
    therapeutic area in order to maximize our overall growth
    opportunities. Our competitors in brand products include major
    brand name manufacturers of pharmaceuticals. Based on total
    assets, annual revenues and market capitalization, our Global
    Brands segment is considerably smaller than many of these
    competitors and other global competitors in the brand product
    area. Many of our competitors have been in business for a longer
    period of time, have a greater number of products on the market
    and have greater financial and other resources than we do. If we
    directly compete with them for certain contracted business, such
    as the Pharmacy Benefit Manager business, and for the same
    markets
    and/or
    products, their financial strength could prevent us from
    capturing a meaningful share of those markets.


 


    We actively compete in the generic pharmaceutical industry.
    Revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic
    pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on
    certain regulatory and competitive factors. As patents and
    regulatory exclusivity for brand name products expire or are
    successfully challenged,





    
    12



Table of Contents





    the first off-patent manufacturer to receive regulatory approval
    for generic equivalents of such products is generally able to
    achieve significant market penetration. As competing off-patent
    manufacturers receive regulatory approvals on similar products,
    market share, revenues and gross profit typically decline, in
    some cases dramatically. Accordingly, the level of market share,
    revenues and gross profit attributable to a particular generic
    product normally is related to the number of competitors in that
    product’s market and the timing of that product’s
    regulatory approval and launch, in relation to competing
    approvals and launches. Consequently, we must continue to
    develop and introduce new products in a timely and
    cost-effective manner to maintain our revenues and gross profit.
    In addition to competition from other generic drug
    manufacturers, we face competition from brand name companies in
    the generic market. Many of these companies seek to participate
    in sales of generic products by, among other things,
    collaborating with other generic pharmaceutical companies or by
    marketing their own generic equivalent to their brand products
    as Authorized Generics. Our major competitors in generic
    products include Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd., Mylan
    Inc. and Sandoz (a division of Novartis AG). See
    “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — Risks Related to
    Our Business — The pharmaceutical industry is highly
    competitive and our future revenue growth and profitability are
    dependent on our timely development and launches of new products
    ahead of our competitors.” in this Annual Report.


 


    In our Distribution business, we compete with a number of large
    wholesalers and other distributors of pharmaceuticals, including
    McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal
    Health, Inc., which distribute both brand and generic
    pharmaceutical products to their customers. These same companies
    are significant customers of our Global Generics and Global
    Brands pharmaceutical businesses. As generic products generally
    have higher gross margins than brand products for a
    pharmaceutical distribution business, each of the large
    wholesalers, on an increasing basis, are offering pricing
    incentives on brand products if the customers purchase a
    majority of their generic pharmaceutical products from the
    primary wholesaler. As we do not offer a broad portfolio of
    brand products to our customers, we are at times competitively
    disadvantaged and must compete with these wholesalers based upon
    our very competitive pricing for generic products, greater
    service levels and our well-established telemarketing
    relationships with our customers, supplemented by our electronic
    ordering capabilities. Additionally, generic manufacturers are
    increasingly marketing their products directly to drug store
    chains with warehousing facilities and thus increasingly
    bypassing wholesalers and distributors. Increased competition in
    the generic industry as a whole may result in increased price
    erosion in the pursuit of market share.


 



    Manufacturing,
    Suppliers and Materials


 


    During 2010, we manufactured many of our own finished products
    at our plants in Corona, California; Davie, Florida; Goa, India;
    Birzebbugia, Malta; Mississauga, Canada; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil;
    Carmel, New York; Copiague, New York and Salt Lake City,
    Utah. As part of an ongoing effort to optimize our manufacturing
    operations, we have implemented several cost reduction
    initiatives, which included the transfer of several solid dosage
    products from our Carmel, New York facility to our Goa, India
    facility, and the ongoing implementation of our Global Supply
    Chain Initiative at certain of our manufacturing facilities.


 


    We have development and manufacturing capabilities for raw
    material and active pharmaceutical ingredients (“API”)
    and intermediate ingredients to support our internal product
    development efforts in our Coleraine, Northern Ireland and
    Ambernath, India facilities. Our Ambernath, India facility also
    develops and manufactures API for third parties.


 


    Our manufacturing operations are subject to extensive regulatory
    oversight and could be interrupted at any time. Our Corona,
    California facility is currently subject to a consent decree of
    permanent injunction. See “ITEM 1A. RISK
    FACTORS — Risks Related to Our Business —
    Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to
    have, a significant impact on our business, especially our
    product development, manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities.” Also refer to Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    We contract with third parties for the manufacture of certain of
    our products, some of which are currently available only from
    sole or limited suppliers. These third-party manufactured
    products include products that have historically accounted for a
    significant portion of our revenues, such as bupropion
    hydrochloride





    
    13



Table of Contents





    sustained-release tablets and a number of our oral contraceptive
    products. Third-party manufactured product sales by our Global
    Generics and Global Brands segments, accounted for approximately
    33%, 38% and 44% of our product net revenues in 2010, 2009 and
    2008, respectively.


 


    We are dependent on third parties for the supply of the raw
    materials necessary to develop and manufacture our products,
    including the API and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients used
    in our products. We are required to identify the supplier(s) of
    all the raw materials for our products in the drug applications
    that we file with the FDA. If raw materials for a particular
    product become unavailable from an approved supplier specified
    in a drug application, we would be required to qualify a
    substitute supplier with the FDA, which would likely interrupt
    manufacturing of the affected product. To the extent
    practicable, we attempt to identify more than one supplier in
    each drug application. However, some raw materials are available
    only from a single source and, in many of our drug applications,
    only one supplier of raw materials has been identified, even in
    instances where multiple sources exist.


 


    In addition, we obtain a significant portion of our raw
    materials from foreign suppliers. Arrangements with
    international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other
    things, FDA regulation, customs clearance, various import
    duties, foreign currency risk and other government clearances.
    Acts of governments outside the U.S. may affect the price
    or availability of raw materials needed for the development or
    manufacture of our products. In addition, any changes in patent
    laws in jurisdictions outside the U.S. may make it
    increasingly difficult to obtain raw materials for R&D
    prior to the expiration of the applicable U.S. or foreign
    patents. See “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — Risks
    Related to Our Business — If we are unable to obtain
    sufficient supplies from key suppliers that in some cases may be
    the only source of finished products or raw materials, our
    ability to deliver our products to the market may be
    impeded.” in this Annual Report.


 


    We continue to make substantial progress on our Global Supply
    Chain Initiative and the transfer of product manufacturing from
    our New York facility to our Florida, California, and Goa, India
    sites. At the end of 2010, approximately 20% of our internally
    sourced manufactured product was produced from our Goa, India
    facility. At the end of 2010, we closed our Carmel, New York
    solid dosage manufacturing facility. Additionally, during the
    year we announced plans to close our manufacturing facility and
    R&D facilities in Mississauga, Canada by late 2011 with
    product being transferred to facilities with additional capacity
    in the Watson global network, including Malta and India and the
    transfer of development activities to other existing R&D
    sites. In January 2011, the Company announced the closure of
    R&D activities in Corona, California and the transfer of
    development activities to existing R&D sites. We will
    continue to implement operational efficiency programs at our
    remaining sites.


 



    Patents
    and Proprietary Rights


 


    We believe patent protection of our proprietary products is
    important to our Global Brands business. Our success with our
    brand products will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain,
    and successfully defend if challenged, patent or other
    proprietary protection for such products. We currently have a
    number of U.S. and foreign patents issued or pending.
    However, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its
    validity or as to the enforceable scope of the claims of the
    patent. Accordingly, our patents may not prevent other companies
    from developing similar or functionally equivalent products or
    from successfully challenging the validity of our patents. If
    our patent applications are not approved or, even if approved,
    if such patents are circumvented or not upheld in a court of
    law, our ability to competitively market our patented products
    and technologies may be significantly reduced. Also, such
    patents may or may not provide competitive advantages for their
    respective products or they may be challenged or circumvented by
    competitors, in which case our ability to commercially market
    these products may be diminished. From time to time, we may need
    to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held
    by third parties to develop, manufacture and market our
    products. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on
    commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially
    market such products may be inhibited or prevented. Patents
    covering our
    Androderm®

    and
    INFed®

    products have expired and we have no further patent protection
    on these products. Therefore, it is possible that a competitor
    may launch a generic version of
    Androderm®

    and/or
    INFed®

    at any time, which would result in a significant decline in that
    product’s revenue and profit. Both of these products were
    significant contributors to our Global Brands business in 2010.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we
    seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements
    with our partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is
    possible that these agreements will be breached or will not be
    enforceable in every instance, and we will not have adequate
    remedies for any such breach. It is also possible that our trade
    secrets will otherwise become known or independently developed
    by competitors.


 


    We may find it necessary to initiate litigation to enforce our
    patent rights, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to
    determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of
    others. Litigation concerning patents, trademarks, copyrights
    and proprietary technologies can often be protracted and
    expensive and, as with litigation generally, the outcome is
    inherently uncertain.


 


    Pharmaceutical companies with brand products are suing companies
    that produce off-patent forms of their brand name products for
    alleged patent infringement or other violations of intellectual
    property rights which may delay or prevent the entry of such a
    generic product into the market. For instance, when we file an
    ANDA in the U.S. seeking approval of a generic equivalent
    to a brand drug, we may certify under the Drug Price Competition
    and Patent Restoration Act of 1984 (the “Hatch-Waxman
    Act”) to the FDA that we do not intend to market our
    generic drug until any patent listed by the FDA as covering the
    brand drug has expired, in which case, the ANDA will be approved
    by the FDA no earlier than the expiration or final finding of
    invalidity of such patent(s). On the other hand, we could
    certify that we believe the patent or patents listed as covering
    the brand drug are invalid
    and/or will
    not be infringed by the manufacture, sale or use of our generic
    form of the brand drug. In that case, we are required to notify
    the brand product holder or the patent holder that such patent
    is invalid or is not infringed. If the patent holder sues us for
    patent infringement within 45 days from receipt of the
    notice, the FDA is then prevented from approving our ANDA for
    30 months after receipt of the notice unless the lawsuit is
    resolved in our favor in less time or a shorter period is deemed
    appropriate by a court. In addition, increasingly aggressive
    tactics employed by brand companies to delay generic
    competition, including the use of Citizen Petitions and seeking
    changes to U.S. Pharmacopeia, have increased the risks and
    uncertainties regarding the timing of approval of generic
    products.


 


    Litigation alleging infringement of patents, copyrights or other
    intellectual property rights may be costly and time consuming.
    See “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — Risks Related
    to Our Business — Third parties may claim that we
    infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent us from
    manufacturing and selling some of our products.” in this
    Annual Report.


 


    Because a balanced and fair legislative and regulatory arena is
    critical to the pharmaceutical industry, we will continue to
    devote management time and financial resources on government
    activities. We currently maintain an office and staff a
    full-time government affairs function in Washington, D.C.
    that maintains responsibility for keeping abreast of state and
    federal legislative activities.


 



    Government
    Regulation and Regulatory Matters


 


    All pharmaceutical manufacturers, including Watson, are subject
    to extensive, complex and evolving regulation by the federal
    government, principally the FDA, and to a lesser extent, by the
    U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”),
    Occupational Safety and Health Administration and state
    government agencies, as well as by various regulatory agencies
    in foreign countries where our products or product candidates
    are being manufactured
    and/or
    marketed. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the
    Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and
    regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing,
    packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval,
    advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products.
    In our international markets, the approval, manufacture and sale
    of pharmaceutical products is similar to the United States with
    some variations dependent upon local market dynamics.


 


    FDA approval is required before any dosage form of any new drug,
    including an off-patent equivalent of a previously approved
    drug, can be marketed. The process for obtaining governmental
    approval to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products is
    rigorous, time-consuming and costly, and the extent to which it
    may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments
    cannot be predicted. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other
    governmental approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and
    shipping new products. Consequently, there is always the risk
    the FDA or another applicable agency will not approve our new
    products, or the rate,





    
    15



Table of Contents





    timing and cost of obtaining such approvals will adversely
    affect our product introduction plans or results of operations.
    See “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — Risks Related
    to Our Business — If we are unable to successfully
    develop or commercialize new products, our operating results
    will suffer.” and “— Extensive industry
    regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant
    impact on our business, especially our product development,
    manufacturing and distribution capabilities.” in this
    Annual Report.


 


    All applications for FDA approval must contain information
    relating to product formulation, raw material suppliers,
    stability, manufacturing processes, packaging, labeling and
    quality control. There are generally two types of applications
    for FDA approval that would be applicable to our new products:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    NDA.  We file a NDA when we seek approval for
    drugs with active ingredients
    and/or with
    dosage strengths, dosage forms, delivery systems or
    pharmacokinetic profiles that have not been previously approved
    by the FDA. Generally, NDAs are filed for newly developed brand
    products or for a new dosage form of previously approved drugs.




 



     
        • 

    
    ANDA.  We file an ANDA when we seek approval
    for off-patent, or generic equivalents of a previously approved
    drug.





 


    The process required by the FDA before a previously unapproved
    pharmaceutical product may be marketed in the
    U.S. generally involves the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    preclinical laboratory and animal tests;




 



     
        • 

    
    submission of an investigational new drug application
    (“IND”), which must become effective before clinical
    trials may begin;




 



     
        • 

    
    adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish
    the safety and efficacy of the proposed product for its intended
    use;




 



     
        • 

    
    submission of a NDA containing the results of the preclinical
    and clinical trials establishing the safety and efficacy of the
    proposed product for its intended use; and




 



     
        • 

    
    FDA approval of a NDA.





 


    Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of the product,
    its chemistry, formulation and stability, as well as animal
    studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the
    product. For products that require NDA approvals, these
    preclinical studies and plans for initial human testing are
    submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become
    effective before we may begin human clinical trials. The IND
    automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by
    the FDA unless the FDA, during that
    30-day
    period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the
    trials as outlined in the IND. In such cases, the IND sponsor
    and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before
    clinical trials can begin. In addition, an independent
    Institutional Review Board must provide oversight to review and
    approve any clinical study at the medical center proposing to
    conduct the clinical trials.


 


    Human clinical trials are typically conducted in the following
    sequential phases:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Phase I.  During this phase, the drug is
    initially introduced into a relatively small number of healthy
    human subjects or patients and is tested for safety, dosage
    tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion.




 



     
        • 

    
    Phase II.  This phase involves studies in a
    limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects
    and safety risks, to determine the efficacy of the product for
    specific targeted diseases or conditions, and to determine
    dosage tolerance and optimal dosage.




 



     
        • 

    
    Phase III.  When Phase II evaluations
    demonstrate that a dosage range of the product is effective and
    has an acceptable safety profile, Phase III trials are
    undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and to
    further test for safety in an expanded patient population at
    geographically dispersed clinical study sites.







    
    16



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Phase IV.  After a drug has been approved by
    the FDA, Phase IV studies may be conducted to explore
    additional patient populations, compare the drug to a
    competitor, or to further study the risks, benefits and optimal
    use of a drug. These studies may be a requirement as a condition
    of the initial approval.





 


    The results of product development, preclinical studies and
    clinical studies are submitted to the FDA as part of a NDA, for
    approval of the marketing and commercial shipment of the new
    product. The NDA drug development and approval process currently
    averages approximately five to ten years.


 


    FDA approval of an ANDA is required before we may begin
    marketing an off-patent or generic equivalent of a drug that has
    been approved under an NDA, or a previously unapproved dosage
    form of a drug that has been approved under an NDA. The ANDA
    approval process generally differs from the NDA approval process
    in that it does not typically require new preclinical and
    clinical studies; instead, it relies on the clinical studies
    establishing safety and efficacy conducted for the previously
    approved NDA drug. The ANDA process, however, typically requires
    data to show that the ANDA drug is bioequivalent (i.e.,
    therapeutically equivalent) to the previously approved drug.
    “Bioequivalence” compares the bioavailability of one
    drug product with another and, when established, indicates
    whether the rate and extent of absorption of a generic drug in
    the body are substantially equivalent to the previously approved
    drug. “Bioavailability” establishes the rate and
    extent of absorption, as determined by the time dependent
    concentrations of a drug product in the bloodstream needed to
    produce a therapeutic effect. The ANDA drug development and
    approval process generally takes three to four years which is
    less time than the NDA drug development and approval process
    since the ANDA process does not require new clinical trials
    establishing the safety and efficacy of the drug product.


 


    Supplemental NDAs or ANDAs are required for, among other things,
    approval to transfer certain products from one manufacturing
    site to another and may be under review for a year or more. In
    addition, certain products may only be approved for transfer
    once new bioequivalency studies are conducted or other
    requirements are satisfied.


 


    To obtain FDA approval of both NDAs and ANDAs, our manufacturing
    procedures and operations must conform to FDA quality system and
    control requirements generally referred to as current Good
    Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”), as defined in
    Title 21 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations.
    These regulations encompass all aspects of the production
    process from receipt and qualification of components to
    distribution procedures for finished products. They are evolving
    standards; thus, we must continue to expend substantial time,
    money and effort in all production and quality control areas to
    maintain compliance. The evolving and complex nature of
    regulatory requirements, the broad authority and discretion of
    the FDA, and the generally high level of regulatory oversight
    results in the continuing possibility that we may be adversely
    affected by regulatory actions despite our efforts to maintain
    compliance with regulatory requirements.


 


    We are subject to the periodic inspection of our facilities,
    procedures and operations
    and/or the
    testing of our products by the FDA, the DEA and other
    authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to assess
    compliance with applicable regulations. In addition, in
    connection with its review of our applications for new products,
    the FDA conducts pre-approval and post-approval reviews and
    plant inspections to determine whether our systems and processes
    comply with cGMP and other FDA regulations. Among other things,
    the FDA may withhold approval of NDAs, ANDAs or other product
    applications of a facility if deficiencies are found at that
    facility. Vendors that supply finished products or components to
    us that we use to manufacture, package and label products are
    subject to similar regulation and periodic inspections.


 


    Following such inspections, the FDA may issue notices on
    Form 483 and Warning Letters that could cause us to modify
    certain activities identified during the inspection. A
    Form 483 notice is generally issued at the conclusion of an
    FDA inspection and lists conditions the FDA investigators
    believe may violate cGMP or other FDA regulations. FDA
    guidelines specify that a Warning Letter be issued only for
    violations of “regulatory significance” for which the
    failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be
    expected to result in an enforcement action.


 


    Our Corona, California facility is currently subject to a
    consent decree of permanent injunction. See also
    “Manufacturing, Suppliers and Materials” discussion
    above, “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — Risks
    Related to Our Business — Extensive industry
    regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant
    impact on our





    
    17



Table of Contents





    business, especially our product development, manufacturing and
    distribution capabilities.” and Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations
    can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures,
    recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of
    production
    and/or
    distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of NDAs, ANDAs
    or other product application enforcement actions, injunctions
    and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA
    also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug
    approvals. Although we have internal compliance programs, if
    these programs do not meet regulatory agency standards or if our
    compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could
    have a material adverse effect on us. See “ITEM 1A.
    RISK FACTORS — Risks Related to Our
    Business — Extensive industry regulation has had, and
    will continue to have, a significant impact on our business,
    especially our product development, manufacturing and
    distribution capabilities.” in this Annual Report.


 


    The Generic Drug Enforcement Act of 1992 established penalties
    for wrongdoing in connection with the development or submission
    of an ANDA. Under this Act, the FDA has the authority to
    permanently or temporarily bar companies or individuals from
    submitting or assisting in the submission of an ANDA, and to
    temporarily deny approval and suspend applications to market
    generic drugs. The FDA may also suspend the distribution of all
    drugs approved or developed in connection with certain wrongful
    conduct
    and/or
    withdraw approval of an ANDA and seek civil penalties. The FDA
    can also significantly delay the approval of any pending NDA,
    ANDA or other regulatory submissions under the Fraud, Untrue
    Statements of Material Facts, Bribery and Illegal Gratuities
    Policy Act.


 


    U.S. Government reimbursement programs include Medicare,
    Medicaid, TriCare, and State Pharmacy Assistance Programs
    established according to statute, government regulations and
    policy. Federal law requires that all pharmaceutical
    manufacturers, as a condition of having their products receive
    federal reimbursement under Medicaid, must pay rebates to state
    Medicaid programs on units of their pharmaceuticals that are
    dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries. With enactment of The
    Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, (“PPACA”),
    the required
    per-unit
    rebate for products marketed under ANDAs increased from 11% of
    the average manufacturer price to approximately 13%.
    Additionally, for products marketed under NDAs, the
    manufacturers rebate will increase from 15.1% to 23.1% of the
    average manufacturer price, or the difference between the
    average manufacturer price and the lowest net sales price to a
    non-government customer during a specified period. In some
    states, supplemental rebates are additionally required as a
    condition of including the manufacturer’s drug on the
    state’s Preferred Drug List.


 


    PPACA also made substantial changes to reimbursement when
    seniors reach the Medicare Part D coverage gap “donut
    hole”. By 2020, Medicare beneficiaries will pay just 25% of
    drug costs when they reach the coverage threshold —
    the same percentage they were responsible for before they
    reached that threshold.


 


    The cost of closing the donut hole is being borne by generic and
    brand drug companies. Brand drug manufacturers must provide a
    50% discount on their drugs, beginning in 2011. Additionally,
    beginning in 2013, the government will begin providing subsidies
    for brand-name drugs bought by seniors who enter the coverage
    gap. The government’s share will start at 2.5%, but will
    increase to 25% by 2020. At that point, the combined industry
    discounts and government subsidies will add up to 75% of
    brand-name drug costs. Generic drugs, which cost less than their
    brand-name counterparts, are treated different from brand drugs.
    Beginning in 2011, government subsidies will cover 7% of generic
    drug costs. The government will then subsidize additional
    portions each year until 2020, when federal subsidies will cover
    75% of generic drug costs. By 2020, the donut hole will be
    completely closed through these manufacturers’ subsidies.


 


    The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization
    Act of 2003 (the “MMA”) requires that manufacturers
    report data to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
    (“CMS”) on pricing of drugs and biologicals reimbursed
    under Medicare Part B. These are generally drugs, such as
    injectable products, that are administered “incident
    to” a physician service, and in general are not
    self-administered. Effective January 1, 2005, average
    selling price (“ASP”) became the basis for
    reimbursement to physicians and suppliers for drugs and
    biologicals covered under Medicare Part B, replacing the
    average wholesale price (“AWP”) provided and





    
    18



Table of Contents





    published by pricing services. In general, we must comply with
    all reporting requirements for any drug or biological that is
    separately reimbursable under Medicare. Watson’s
    INFeD®

    and
    Trelstar®

    products are reimbursed under Medicare Part B and, as a
    result, we provide ASP data on these products to CMS on a
    quarterly basis.


 


    Under Part D of the MMA, some Medicare beneficiaries are
    eligible to obtain subsidized prescription drug coverage from
    private sector providers. Usage of pharmaceuticals has increased
    as a result of the expanded access to medicines afforded by the
    Medicare prescription drug benefit. However, such sales
    increases have been offset by increased pricing pressures due to
    the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector providers
    who negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries. It is
    anticipated that further pricing pressures will continue into
    2011 and beyond.


 


    The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) mandated a
    number of changes in the Medicaid program, including the use of
    Average Manufacturers Price (“AMP”) as the basis for
    reimbursement to pharmaceutical companies that dispense generic
    drugs under the Medicaid program. Three health care reform bills
    passed in 2010 significantly changed the definition of AMP,
    effective October 1, 2010. These legislative changes were
    part of PPACA, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act,
    and the FAA Air Transportation Modernization & Safety
    Improvement Act (“Transportation Bill”). In PPACA,
    Congress substantially revised the definition of AMP to, among
    other things, narrow the scope of prices included in the
    calculation of AMP to those paid to a manufacturer by
    wholesalers for drugs distributed to retail community pharmacies
    or by retail community pharmacies that purchase directly from
    manufacturers. In August 2010, Congress further amended the
    definition of AMP to specify that the exclusion of certain
    classes of trade from AMP does not apply to inhalation,
    infusion, instilled, implanted, or injected drugs that typically
    are not dispensed to retail community pharmacies. PPACA also
    requires disclosure of weighted average AMP instead of
    manufacturer AMP, which was previously required. The impact of
    this new legislation is that there will likely be increases in
    Medicaid reimbursement to pharmacies for generics. These changes
    became effective on October 1, 2010.


 


    These new laws replaced the reimbursement guidelines that had
    been established under the DRA. On November 9, 2010, CMS
    issued a final rule withdrawing and amending regulations that
    have governed the calculation of AMP and the establishment of
    federal upper limits since October 2007. The regulations were
    withdrawn to mandate AMP calculation under the recently revised
    drug rebate statute, but no replacement regulations have yet
    been proposed. The withdrawal required manufacturers to base
    October 2010, and subsequent month’s AMPs on the statutory
    language until official guidance is issued. CMS anticipates that
    it will offer guidance by the second quarter of 2011.


 


    In the absence of regulatory guidance governing the AMP
    calculation, CMS has instructed pharmaceutical manufacturers to
    base their AMP calculations on the definitions set forth in the
    statute, as amended by the PPACA, the Health Care and Education
    Reconciliation Act, and the Transportation Bill. Without the
    benefit of interpretive guidance from CMS, Watson has adopted
    mechanisms to ensure that we are calculating and reporting AMP
    in a manner that is consistent with the statute’s text and
    intent.


 


    As a result of these changes, in December of 2010, the National
    Association of Chain Drugstores (“NACDS”) and the
    National Community Pharmacists Association dropped their 2007
    lawsuit that was previously blocking the implementation of the
    AMP rule.


 


    Twenty-six states are currently challenging the
    constitutionality of PPACA. Ultimate resolution of this matter
    remains uncertain.


 


    There has been enhanced political attention, governmental
    scrutiny and litigation at the federal and state levels of the
    prices paid or reimbursed for pharmaceutical products under
    Medicaid, Medicare and other government programs. See
    “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — Risks Related to
    Our Business — Investigations of the calculation of
    average wholesale prices may adversely affect our
    business.” and Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    In order to assist us in commercializing products, we have
    obtained from government authorities and private health insurers
    and other organizations, such as Health Maintenance
    Organizations (“HMOs”) and





    
    19



Table of Contents





    Managed Care Organizations (“MCOs”), authorization to
    receive reimbursement at varying levels for the cost of certain
    products and related treatments. Third party payers increasingly
    challenge pricing of pharmaceutical products. The trend toward
    managed healthcare in the U.S., the growth of organizations such
    as HMOs and MCOs and legislation to reform healthcare and
    government insurance programs could significantly influence the
    purchase of pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices
    and a reduction in product demand. Such cost containment
    measures and healthcare legislation could affect our ability to
    sell our products and may have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows. Due to the uncertainty surrounding reimbursement of newly
    approved pharmaceutical products, reimbursement may not be
    available for some of our products. Additionally, any
    reimbursement granted may not be maintained or limits on
    reimbursement available from third-party payers may reduce the
    demand for, or negatively affect the price of, those products.


 


    Federal, state, local and foreign laws of general applicability,
    such as laws regulating working conditions, also govern us. In
    addition, we are subject, as are all manufacturers generally, to
    numerous and increasingly stringent federal, state and local
    environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other
    things, the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
    treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous substances and the
    discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Environmental
    permits and controls are required for some of our operations,
    and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and
    revocation by the issuing authorities. Our environmental capital
    expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase
    in the future as a result of changes in environmental laws and
    regulations or increased manufacturing activities at any of our
    facilities. We could be adversely affected by any failure to
    comply with environmental laws, including the costs of
    undertaking a
    clean-up at
    a site to which our wastes were transported.


 


    As part of the MMA, companies are required to file with the
    U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and the
    Department of Justice certain types of agreements entered into
    between brand and generic pharmaceutical companies related to
    the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic versions of brand
    drugs. This requirement could affect the manner in which generic
    drug manufacturers resolve intellectual property litigation and
    other disputes with brand pharmaceutical companies, and could
    result generally in an increase in private-party litigation
    against pharmaceutical companies. The impact of this
    requirement, and the potential private-party lawsuits associated
    with arrangements between brand name and generic drug
    manufacturers, is uncertain and could adversely affect our
    business. For example, in January 2009, the FTC and the State of
    California filed a lawsuit against us alleging that our
    settlement with Solvay related to our ANDA for a generic version
    of
    Androgel®

    is unlawful. Beginning in February 2009, several private parties
    purporting to represent various classes of plaintiffs filed
    similar lawsuits. Additionally, we have received requests for
    information, in the form of civil investigative demands or
    subpoenas, from the FTC, and are subject to ongoing FTC
    investigations, concerning our settlement with Cephalon related
    to our ANDA for a generic version of
    Provigil®.

    Any adverse outcome of these or other FTC investigations or
    actions could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See
    “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — Risks Related to
    Our Business— Federal regulation of arrangements
    between manufacturers of brand and generic products could
    adversely affect our business.” Also refer to Legal
    Matters in “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    Continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and
    efficacy of pharmaceuticals and other health care products are
    being conducted by industry, government agencies and others.
    Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods
    and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety
    and efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases
    have resulted, and may in the future result, in the
    discontinuance of their marketing.


 


    Our Distribution operations and our customers are subject to
    various regulatory requirements, including requirements from the
    DEA, FDA, and state boards of pharmacy and city and county
    health regulators, among others. These include licensing,
    registration, recordkeeping, security and reporting
    requirements. In particular, several states and the federal
    government have begun to enforce anti-counterfeit drug pedigree
    laws which require the tracking of all transactions involving
    prescription drugs beginning with the manufacturer, through the
    supply chain, and down to the pharmacy or other health care
    provider dispensing or administering





    
    20



Table of Contents





    prescription drug products. For example, effective July 1,
    2006, the Florida Department of Health began enforcement of the
    drug pedigree requirements for distribution of prescription
    drugs in the State of Florida. Pursuant to Florida law and
    regulations, wholesalers and distributors, including our
    subsidiary, Anda, are required to maintain records documenting
    the chain of custody of prescription drug products they
    distribute beginning with the purchase of such products from the
    manufacturer. These entities are required to provide
    documentation of the prior transaction(s) to their customers in
    Florida, including pharmacies and other health care entities.
    Several other states have proposed or enacted legislation to
    implement similar or more stringent drug pedigree requirements.
    In addition, federal law requires that a “non-authorized
    distributor of record” must provide a drug pedigree
    documenting the prior purchase of a prescription drug from the
    manufacturer or from an “authorized distributor of
    record.” In cases where the wholesaler or distributor
    selling the drug product is not deemed an “authorized
    distributor of record,” it would need to maintain such
    records. The FDA had announced its intent to impose additional
    drug pedigree requirements (e.g., tracking of lot numbers and
    documentation of all transactions) through implementation of
    drug pedigree regulations which were to have taken effect on
    December 1, 2006. However, a federal appeals court has
    issued a preliminary injunction to several wholesale
    distributors granting an indefinite stay of these regulations
    pending a challenge to the regulations by these wholesale
    distributors.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign
    environmental laws and regulations. We believe that our
    operations comply in all material respects with applicable
    environmental laws and regulations in each jurisdiction where we
    have a business presence. Although we continue to make capital
    expenditures for environmental protection, we do not anticipate
    any significant expenditure in order to comply with such laws
    and regulations that would have a material impact on our
    earnings or competitive position. We are not aware of any
    pending litigation or significant financial obligations arising
    from current or past environmental practices that are likely to
    have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We
    cannot assure you, however, that environmental problems relating
    to facilities owned or operated by us will not develop in the
    future, and we cannot predict whether any such problems, if they
    were to develop, could require significant expenditures on our
    part. In addition, we are unable to predict what legislation or
    regulations may be adopted or enacted in the future with respect
    to environmental protection and waste disposal.


 



    Seasonality


 


    There are no significant seasonal aspects to our business except
    in Western Europe. During the months of July and August our
    operations in Western Europe experience significantly lower
    sales due to pharmacy closures and representatives on summer
    vacations.


 



    Backlog


 


    Due to the relatively short lead-time required to fill orders
    for our products, backlog of orders is not material to our
    business.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    6,030 employees. Of our employees, approximately 830 are
    engaged in R&D, 1,850 in manufacturing, 1,070 in quality
    assurance and quality control, 1,380 in sales, marketing and
    distribution, and 900 in administration.




    
    21



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 



    CAUTIONARY
    NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS


 


    Any statements made in this report that are not statements of
    historical fact or that refer to estimated or anticipated future
    events are forward-looking statements. We have based our
    forward-looking statements on management’s beliefs and
    assumptions based on information available to our management at
    the time these statements are made. Such forward-looking
    statements reflect our current perspective of our business,
    future performance, existing trends and information as of the
    date of this filing. These include, but are not limited to, our
    beliefs about future revenue and expense levels and growth
    rates, prospects related to our strategic initiatives and
    business strategies, including the integration of, and synergies
    associated with, strategic acquisitions, express or implied
    assumptions about government regulatory action or inaction,
    anticipated product approvals and launches, business initiatives
    and product development activities, assessments related to
    clinical trial results, product performance and competitive
    environment, and anticipated financial performance. Without
    limiting the generality of the foregoing, words such as
    “may,” “will,” “expect,”
    “believe,” “anticipate,” “intend,”
    “could,” “would,” “estimate,”
    “continue,” or “pursue,” or the negative
    or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, are
    intended to identify forward-looking statements. The statements
    are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain
    risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to
    predict. We caution the reader that these statements are based
    on certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which
    are beyond our control. In addition, certain important factors
    may affect our actual operating results and could cause such
    results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by
    forward-looking statements. We believe the risks and
    uncertainties discussed under the section entitled “Risks
    Related to Our Business,” and other risks and uncertainties
    detailed herein and from time to time in our SEC filings, may
    cause our actual results to vary materially than those
    anticipated in any forward-looking statement.


 


    We disclaim any obligation to publicly update any
    forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
    information, future events or otherwise, except as required by
    law. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 


    We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a
    number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The
    following discussion highlights some of these risks and others
    are discussed elsewhere in this annual report. These and other
    risks could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Risks
    Associated With Investing In the Business of Watson


 



    Our
    operating results and financial condition may
    fluctuate.


 


    Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from
    quarter to quarter and year to year for a number of reasons. The
    following events or occurrences, among others, could cause
    fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    development of new competitive products or generics by others;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing and receipt of approvals by the FDA and other
    regulatory authorities, including foreign regulatory authorities;




 



     
        • 

    
    the failure to obtain, delay in obtaining or restrictions or
    limitations on approvals from the FDA or other foreign
    regulatory authorities;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties or delays in resolving FDA-observed deficiencies at
    our manufacturing facilities, which could delay our ability to
    obtain approvals of pending FDA product applications;







    
    22



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    delays or failures in clinical trials that affect our ability to
    achieve FDA approvals or approvals from other foreign regulatory
    authorities;




 



     
        • 

    
    serious or unexpected health or safety concerns with our
    products or product candidates;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in the amount we spend to develop, acquire or license
    new products, technologies or businesses;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in the amount we spend to promote our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    delays between our expenditures to acquire new products,
    technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from
    those acquired products, technologies or businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in treatment practices of physicians that currently
    prescribe our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in coverage and reimbursement policies of health plans
    and other health insurers, including changes that affect newly
    developed or newly acquired products;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in laws and regulations concerning coverage and
    reimbursement of pharmaceutical products, including changes to
    Medicare, Medicaid, and similar state programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    manufacturing and supply interruptions, including failure to
    comply with manufacturing specifications;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the effect of economic changes in hurricane, monsoon, earthquake
    and other natural disaster-affected areas;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the impact of third party patents and other intellectual
    property rights which we may be found to infringe, or may be
    required to license, and the potential damages or other costs we
    may be required to pay as a result of a finding that we infringe
    such intellectual property rights or a decision that we are
    required to obtain a license to such intellectual property
    rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    the mix of products that we sell during any time period;




 



     
        • 

    
    lower than expected demand for our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    our responses to price competition;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to successfully integrate and commercialize the
    products, technologies and businesses we acquire or license, as
    applicable;




 



     
        • 

    
    expenditures as a result of legal actions;




 



     
        • 

    
    market acceptance of our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impairment and write-down of goodwill or other intangible
    assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    disposition of our primary products, technologies and other
    rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    termination or expiration of, or the outcome of disputes
    relating to, trademarks, patents, license agreements and other
    rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in insurance rates for existing products and the cost of
    insurance for new products;




 



     
        • 

    
    general economic and industry conditions, including changes in
    interest rates affecting returns on cash balances and
    investments that affect customer demand;




 



     
        • 

    
    our level of R&D activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairment or write-down of investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    costs and outcomes of any tax audits;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    costs and outcomes of any litigation involving intellectual
    property, drug pricing or reimbursement, product liability,
    customers or other issues;







    
    23



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    timing of revenue recognition related to licensing agreements
    and/or
    strategic collaborations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    risks related to the growth of our business across numerous
    countries world-wide and the inherent international business
    risks.





 


    As a result, we believe that
    period-to-period
    comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily
    meaningful, and these comparisons should not be relied upon as
    an indication of future performance. The above factors may cause
    our operating results to fluctuate and adversely affect our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    If we
    are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new
    products, our operating results will suffer.


 


    Our future results of operations will depend to a significant
    extent upon our ability to successfully develop and
    commercialize new brand and generic products in a timely manner.
    There are numerous difficulties in developing and
    commercializing new products, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    developing, testing and manufacturing products in compliance
    with regulatory standards in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    receiving requisite regulatory approvals for such products in a
    timely manner or at all;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability, on commercially reasonable terms, of raw
    materials, including API and other key ingredients;




 



     
        • 

    
    developing and commercializing a new product is time consuming,
    costly and subject to numerous factors, including legal actions
    brought by our competitors, that may delay or prevent the
    development and commercialization of new products;




 



     
        • 

    
    experiencing delays or unanticipated costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    experiencing delays as a result of limited resources at FDA or
    other regulatory agencies;




 



     
        • 

    
    changing review and approval policies and standards at FDA and
    other regulatory agencies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    commercializing generic products may be substantially delayed by
    the listing with the FDA of patents that have the effect of
    potentially delaying approval of the generic product by up to
    30 months.





 


    As a result of these and other difficulties, products currently
    in development by us may or may not receive timely regulatory
    approvals, or approvals at all, necessary for marketing by us or
    other third-party partners. This risk particularly exists with
    respect to the development of proprietary products because of
    the uncertainties, higher costs and lengthy time frames
    associated with research and development of such products and
    the inherent unproven market acceptance of such products.
    Additionally, we face heightened risks in connection with our
    development of extended release or controlled release generic
    products because of the technical difficulties and regulatory
    requirements related to such products. Additionally, with
    respect to generic products for which we are the first applicant
    to request approval on the basis that an innovator patent is
    invalid or not infringed (a paragraph IV filing), our
    ability to obtain 180 days of generic market exclusivity
    may be contingent on our ability to obtain FDA approval or
    tentative approval within 30 months of FDA’s
    acceptance of our application for filing. We therefore risk
    forfeiting such market exclusivity if we are unable to obtain
    such approval or tentative approval on a timely basis. If any of
    our products are not timely approved or, when acquired or
    developed and approved, cannot be successfully manufactured or
    timely commercialized, our operating results could be adversely
    affected. We cannot guarantee that any investment we make in
    developing products will be recouped, even if we are successful
    in commercializing those products.


 



    Our
    brand pharmaceutical expenditures may not result in commercially
    successful products.


 


    Developing and commercializing brand pharmaceutical products is
    generally more costly than generic products. In the future, we
    anticipate continuing our product development expenditures for
    our Global Brands business segment. For example in 2010, we
    acquired rights to
    Prochieve®

    8% vaginal progesterone gel to reduce the risk of preterm birth
    in women with a short cervix. We plan to submit an NDA for FDA
    approval





    
    24



Table of Contents





    of this product in 2011. We cannot be sure this or other
    business expenditures will result in the successful discovery,
    development or launch of brand products that will prove to be
    commercially successful or will improve the long-term
    profitability of our business. If such business expenditures do
    not result in successful discovery, development or launch of
    commercially successful brand products our results of operations
    and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Any
    acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses, may be
    difficult to integrate, could adversely affect our relationships
    with key customers, and/or could result in significant charges
    to earnings.


 


    We regularly review potential acquisitions of technologies,
    products and businesses complementary to our business.
    Acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in
    difficulties in integrating operations, personnel, technologies
    and products. If we are not able to successfully integrate our
    acquisitions, we may not obtain the advantages and synergies
    that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows, our ability to develop and
    introduce new products and the market price of our stock. In
    addition, in connection with acquisitions, we could experience
    disruption in our business, technology and information systems,
    customer or employee base, including diversion of
    management’s attention from our continuing operations.
    There is also a risk that key employees of companies that we
    acquire or key employees necessary to successfully commercialize
    technologies and products that we acquire may seek employment
    elsewhere, including with our competitors. Furthermore, there
    may be overlap between our products or customers and the
    companies that we acquire that may create conflicts in
    relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated
    businesses. If we are unable to successfully integrate products,
    technologies, businesses or personnel that we acquire, we could
    incur significant impairment charges or other adverse financial
    consequences.


 


    In addition, as a result of acquiring businesses or products, or
    entering into other significant transactions, we have
    experienced, and will likely continue to experience, significant
    charges to earnings for merger and related expenses. These costs
    may include substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys,
    accountants and financial printing costs and severance and other
    closure costs associated with the elimination of duplicate or
    discontinued products, operations and facilities. Charges that
    we may incur in connection with acquisitions could adversely
    affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or
    annual periods.


 



    If we
    are unsuccessful in our joint ventures and other collaborations,
    our operating results could suffer.


 


    We have made substantial investments in joint ventures and other
    collaborations and may use these and other methods to develop or
    commercialize products in the future. These arrangements
    typically involve other pharmaceutical companies as partners
    that may be competitors of ours in certain markets. In many
    instances, we will not control these joint ventures or
    collaborations or the commercial exploitation of the licensed
    products, and cannot assure you that these ventures will be
    profitable. Although restrictions contained in certain of these
    programs have not had a material adverse impact on the marketing
    of our own products to date, any such marketing restrictions
    could affect future revenues and have a material adverse effect
    on our operations. Our results of operations may suffer if
    existing joint venture or collaboration partners withdraw, or if
    these products are not timely developed, approved or
    successfully commercialized.


 



    If we
    are unable to adequately protect our technology or enforce our
    patents, our business could suffer.


 


    Our success with the brand products that we develop will depend,
    in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for these
    products. We currently have a number of U.S. and foreign
    patents issued and pending. However, issuance of a patent is not
    conclusive evidence of its validity or enforceability. We cannot
    be sure that we will receive patents for any of our pending
    patent applications or any patent applications we may file in
    the future, or that our issued patents will be upheld if
    challenged. If our current and future patent applications are
    not approved or, if approved, our patents are not upheld in a
    court of law if challenged, it may reduce our ability to
    competitively exploit our patented products. Also, such patents
    may or may not provide competitive advantages for their
    respective products or they may be challenged or circumvented by
    our competitors, in which case our ability to commercially
    market these products may be diminished. Patents covering our
    Androderm®

    and
    INFed®

    products have expired and we have no further patent protection
    on





    
    25



Table of Contents





    these products. Therefore, it is possible that a competitor may
    launch a generic version of
    Androderm®

    and/or
    INFed®

    at any time, which would result in a significant decline in that
    product’s revenue and profit. Both of these products were
    significant contributors to our Global Brands business in 2010.


 


    We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we
    seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements
    with our partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is
    possible that these agreements will be breached or that they
    will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not
    have adequate remedies for any such breach. It is also possible
    that our trade secrets will become known or independently
    developed by our competitors.


 


    If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade
    secrets or propriety know-how, or enforce our intellectual
    property rights, our results of operations, financial condition
    and cash flows could suffer.


 



    If
    pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of
    generics through their legislative, regulatory and other
    efforts, our sales of generic products may suffer.


 


    Many pharmaceutical companies increasingly have used state and
    federal legislative and regulatory means to delay generic
    competition. These efforts have included:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    pursuing new patents for existing products which may be granted
    just before the expiration of earlier patents, which could
    extend patent protection for additional years or otherwise delay
    the launch of generics;




 



     
        • 

    
    selling the brand product as an Authorized Generic, either by
    the brand company directly, through an affiliate or by a
    marketing partner;




 



     
        • 

    
    using the Citizen Petition process to request amendments to FDA
    standards or otherwise delay generic drug approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    seeking changes to U.S. Pharmacopeia, an organization which
    publishes industry recognized compendia of drug standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    attaching patent extension amendments to non-related federal
    legislation;




 



     
        • 

    
    engaging in
    state-by-state
    initiatives to enact legislation that restricts the substitution
    of some generic drugs, which could have an impact on products
    that we are developing; and




 



     
        • 

    
    seeking patents on methods of manufacturing certain API.





 


    If pharmaceutical companies or other third parties are
    successful in limiting the use of generic products through these
    or other means, our sales of generic products may decline. If we
    experience a material decline in generic product sales, our
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will
    suffer.


 



    If
    competitors are successful in limiting competition for certain
    generic products through their legislative, regulatory and
    litigation efforts, our sales of certain generic products may
    suffer.


 


    Certain of our competitors have recently challenged our ability
    to distribute Authorized Generics during the competitors’
    180-day
    period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act. Under the
    challenged arrangements, we have obtained rights to market and
    distribute under a brand manufacturer’s NDA a generic
    alternative of the brand product. Some of our competitors have
    challenged the propriety of these arrangements by filing Citizen
    Petitions with the FDA, initiating lawsuits alleging violation
    of the antitrust and consumer protection laws, and seeking
    legislative intervention. For example, in February 2011,
    legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate that would
    prohibit the marketing of Authorized Generics during the
    180-day
    period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act. If
    distribution of Authorized Generic versions of brand products is
    otherwise restricted or found unlawful, our results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows could be
    materially adversely affected.




    
    26



Table of Contents






    From
    time to time we may need to rely on licenses to proprietary
    technologies, which may be difficult or expensive to
    obtain.


 


    We may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary
    rights held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market
    products. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on
    commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially
    market our products may be inhibited or prevented, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Third
    parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and
    may prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our
    products.


 


    The manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the
    subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of
    substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These
    lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or
    proprietary rights of third parties. We may have to defend
    against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights
    of third parties. This is especially true in the case of generic
    products on which the patent covering the brand product is
    expiring, an area where infringement litigation is prevalent,
    and in the case of new brand products where a competitor has
    obtained patents for similar products. Litigation may be costly
    and time-consuming, and could divert the attention of our
    management and technical personnel. In addition, if we infringe
    the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop,
    manufacture or market products or could be required to pay
    monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from
    third parties. For example, we are engaged in litigation with
    Bayer Pharmaceuticals concerning whether our
    Zarahtm

    product infringes Bayer’s U.S. Patent Number
    5,569,652, and we continue to manufacture and market our
    Zarahtm

    product during the pendency of the litigation. Although the
    parties to patent and intellectual property disputes in the
    pharmaceutical industry have often settled their disputes
    through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated
    with these arrangements may be substantial and could include
    ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the
    necessary licenses would be available to us on commercially
    reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, an adverse
    determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or
    failure to obtain necessary licenses could result in substantial
    monetary damage awards and could prevent us from manufacturing
    and selling a number of our products, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Our
    distribution operations are highly dependent upon a primary
    courier service.


 


    Product deliveries within our Distribution business are highly
    dependent on overnight delivery services to deliver our products
    in a timely and reliable manner, typically by overnight service.
    Our Distribution business ships a substantial portion of
    products via one courier’s air and ground delivery service.
    If the courier terminates our contract or if we cannot renew the
    contract on favorable terms or enter into a contract with an
    equally reliable overnight courier to perform and offer the same
    service level at similar or more favorable rates, our business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could
    be materially adversely affected.


 



    Our
    distribution operations concentrate on generic products and
    therefore are subject to the risks of the generic
    industry.


 


    The ability of our Distribution business to provide consistent,
    sequential quarterly growth is affected, in large part, by our
    participation in the launch of new products by generic
    manufacturers and the subsequent advent and extent of
    competition encountered by these products. This competition can
    result in significant and rapid declines in pricing with a
    corresponding decrease in net sales of our Distribution
    business. Our margins can also be affected by the risks inherent
    to the generic industry, which is discussed below under
    “Risks Relating to Investing in the Pharmaceutical
    Industry.”




    
    27



Table of Contents






    Our
    distribution operations compete directly with significant
    customers of our generic and brand businesses.


 


    In our Distribution business, our main competitors are McKesson
    Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health,
    Inc. These companies are significant customers of our Global
    Generics and Global Brands operations and collectively accounted
    for approximately 23% of our annual net revenues in 2010. Our
    activities related to our Distribution business, as well as the
    acquisition of other businesses that compete with our customers,
    may result in the disruption of our business, which could harm
    relationships with our current customers, employees or
    suppliers, and could adversely affect our expenses, pricing,
    third-party relationships and revenues. Further, a loss of a
    significant customer of our Global Generics or Global Brands
    operations could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    If we
    are unable to obtain sufficient supplies from key manufacturing
    sites or suppliers that in some cases may be the only source of
    finished products or raw materials, our ability to deliver our
    products to the market may be impeded.


 


    We are required to identify the supplier(s) of all the raw
    materials for our products in our applications with the FDA and
    other regulatory agencies. To the extent practicable, we attempt
    to identify more than one supplier in each drug application.
    However, some products and raw materials are available only from
    a single source and, in many of our drug applications, only one
    supplier of products and raw materials or site of manufacture
    has been identified, even in instances where multiple sources
    exist. Some of these products have historically accounted for a
    significant portion of our revenues, such as
    INFed®,

    metoprolol succinate extended release, bupropion sustained
    release tablets and a significant number of our oral
    contraceptive and controlled substance products. From time to
    time, certain of our manufacturing sites or outside suppliers
    have experienced regulatory or supply-related difficulties that
    have inhibited their ability to deliver products and raw
    materials to us, causing supply delays or interruptions. To the
    extent any difficulties experienced by our manufacturing sites
    or suppliers cannot be resolved or extensions of our key supply
    agreements cannot be negotiated within a reasonable time and on
    commercially reasonable terms, or if raw materials for a
    particular product become unavailable from an approved supplier
    and we are required to qualify a new supplier with the FDA, or
    if we are unable to do so, our profit margins and market share
    for the affected product could decrease or be eliminated, as
    well as delay our development and sales and marketing efforts.
    Such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.


 


    Our manufacturing sites in India, Canada and Malta, and our
    arrangements with foreign suppliers, are subject to certain
    additional risks, including the availability of government
    clearances, export duties, political instability, war, acts of
    terrorism, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the
    transfer of funds. For example, we obtain a significant portion
    of our raw materials from foreign suppliers. Arrangements with
    international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other
    things, FDA and foreign regulatory body regulation, customs
    clearances, various import duties and other government
    clearances, as well as potential shipping delays due to
    inclement weather, strikes or other matters outside of our
    control. Acts of governments outside the U.S. may affect
    the price or availability of raw materials needed for the
    development or manufacture of our products. In addition, recent
    changes in patent laws in jurisdictions outside the
    U.S. may make it increasingly difficult to obtain raw
    materials for R&D prior to the expiration of the applicable
    U.S. or foreign patents.


 



    Our
    policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and
    marketing programs adopted by wholesalers, may reduce our
    revenues in future fiscal periods.


 


    Consistent with industry practice we, like many generic product
    manufacturers, have liberal return policies and have been
    willing to give customers post-sale inventory allowances. Under
    these arrangements, from time to time, we may give our customers
    credits on our generic products that our customers hold in
    inventory after we have decreased the market prices of the same
    generic products. Therefore, if new competitors enter the
    marketplace and significantly lower the prices of any of their
    competing products, we may reduce the price of our product. As a
    result, we may be obligated to provide significant credits to
    our





    
    28



Table of Contents





    customers who are then holding inventories of such products,
    which could reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period
    the credit is provided. Like our competitors, we also give
    credits for chargebacks to wholesale customers that have
    contracts with us for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing
    organizations, pharmacies or other retail customers. A
    chargeback represents an amount payable in the future to a
    wholesaler for the difference between the invoice price paid to
    us by our wholesale customer for a particular product and the
    negotiated price that the wholesaler’s customer pays for
    that product. Although we establish reserves based on our prior
    experience and our best estimates of the impact that these
    policies may have in subsequent periods, we cannot ensure that
    our reserves are adequate or that actual product returns,
    allowances and chargebacks will not exceed our estimates, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations, financial condition, cash flows and the market price
    of our stock.


 



    Investigations
    of the calculation of average wholesale prices may adversely
    affect our business.


 


    Many government and third-party payers, including Medicare,
    Medicaid, HMOs and MCOs, have historically reimbursed doctors,
    pharmacies and others for the purchase of certain prescription
    drugs based on a drug’s AWP or wholesale average cost
    (“WAC”). In the past several years, state and federal
    government agencies have conducted ongoing investigations of
    manufacturers’ reporting practices with respect to AWP and
    WAC, in which they have suggested that reporting of inflated
    AWP’s or WAC’s have led to excessive payments for
    prescription drugs. For example, beginning in July 2002, we and
    certain of our subsidiaries, as well as numerous other
    pharmaceutical companies, were named as defendants in various
    state and federal court actions alleging improper or fraudulent
    practices related to the reporting of AWP
    and/or WAC
    of certain products, and other improper acts, in order to
    increase prices and market shares. Additional actions are
    anticipated. These actions, if successful, could adversely
    affect us and may have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows. See Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 



    The
    design, development, manufacture and sale of our products
    involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and
    other third parties, and insurance against such potential claims
    is expensive and may be difficult to obtain.


 


    The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products
    involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and the
    associated adverse publicity. Insurance coverage is expensive
    and may be difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the
    future on acceptable terms, or at all. We regularly monitor the
    use of our products for trends or increases in reports of
    adverse events or product complaints, and regularly report such
    matters to the FDA. In some, but not all, cases an increase in
    adverse event reports may be an indication that there has been a
    change in a product’s specifications or efficacy. Such
    changes could lead to a recall of the product in question or, in
    some cases, increases in product liability claims related to the
    product in question. If the coverage limits for product
    liability insurance policies are not adequate or if certain of
    our products are excluded from coverage, a claim brought against
    us, whether covered by insurance or not, could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows. See Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 



    The
    loss of our key personnel could cause our business to
    suffer.


 


    The success of our present and future operations will depend, to
    a significant extent, upon the experience, abilities and
    continued services of key personnel. For example, although we
    have other senior management personnel, a significant loss of
    the services of Paul Bisaro, our Chief Executive Officer, or
    other senior executive officers without having or hiring a
    suitable successor, could cause our business to suffer. We
    cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain key
    personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with many
    of our senior executive officers but such agreements do not
    guarantee that our senior executive officers will remain
    employed by us for a significant period of time, or at all. We
    do not carry key-employee life insurance on any of our officers.




    
    29



Table of Contents






    Significant
    balances of intangible assets, including product rights and
    goodwill acquired, are subject to impairment testing and may
    result in impairment charges, which will adversely affect our
    results of operations and financial condition.


 


    A significant amount of our total assets is related to acquired
    intangibles and goodwill. As of December 31, 2010, the
    carrying value of our product rights and other intangible assets
    was approximately $1.63 billion and the carrying value of
    our goodwill was approximately $1.53 billion.


 


    Our product rights are stated at cost, less accumulated
    amortization. We determine original fair value and amortization
    periods for product rights based on our assessment of various
    factors impacting estimated useful lives and cash flows of the
    acquired products. Such factors include the product’s
    position in its life cycle, the existence or absence of like
    products in the market, various other competitive and regulatory
    issues and contractual terms. Significant adverse changes to any
    of these factors would require us to perform an impairment test
    on the affected asset and, if evidence of impairment exists, we
    would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to
    the asset. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations and financial condition.


 


    Our other significant intangible assets include acquired core
    technology and customer relationships, which are intangible
    assets with definite lives, our Anda trade name and acquired
    in-process research and development (“IPR&D”)
    intangibles, acquired in recent business acquisitions, which are
    intangible assets with indefinite lives.


 


    Our acquired core technology and customer relationship
    intangible assets are stated at cost, less accumulated
    amortization. We determined the original fair value of our other
    intangible assets by performing a discounted cash flow analysis,
    which is based on our assessment of various factors. Such
    factors include existing operating margins, the number of
    existing and potential competitors, product pricing patterns,
    product market share analysis, product approval and launch
    dates, the effects of competition, customer attrition rates,
    consolidation within the industry and generic product lifecycle
    estimates. Our other intangible assets with definite lives are
    tested for impairment when there are significant changes to any
    of these factors. If evidence of impairment exists, we would be
    required to take an impairment charge with respect to the
    impaired asset. Such a charge could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations and financial condition.


 


    Goodwill, our Anda trade name intangible asset and our
    IPR&D intangible assets are tested for impairment annually
    and when events occur or circumstances change that could
    potentially reduce the fair value of the reporting unit or
    intangible asset. Impairment testing compares the fair value of
    the reporting unit or intangible asset to its carrying amount. A
    goodwill, trade name or IPR&D impairment, if any, would be
    recorded in operating income and could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
    During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company recorded a
    $28.6 million impairment charge related to certain
    IPR&D assets acquired in the Arrow Acquisition.


 



    We may
    need to raise additional funds in the future which may not be
    available on acceptable terms or at all.


 


    We may consider issuing additional debt or equity securities in
    the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to
    refinance existing debt, or for general corporate purposes. If
    we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise
    additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience
    dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights,
    preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing
    stockholders. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our
    leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity
    capitalization, requiring us to pay additional interest expenses
    and potentially lower our credit ratings. We may not be able to
    market such issuances on favorable terms, or at all, in which
    case, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products,
    execute our business plan, take advantage of future
    opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or
    unanticipated customer requirements.


 



    Our
    business could suffer as a result of manufacturing difficulties
    or delays.


 


    The manufacture of certain of our products and product
    candidates, particularly our controlled-release products,
    transdermal products, and our oral contraceptive products, is
    more difficult than the manufacture of immediate-release
    products. Successful manufacturing of these types of products
    requires precise





    
    30



Table of Contents





    manufacturing process controls, API that conforms to very tight
    tolerances for specific characteristics and equipment that
    operates consistently within narrow performance ranges.
    Manufacturing complexity, testing requirements, and safety and
    security processes combine to increase the overall difficulty of
    manufacturing these products and resolving manufacturing
    problems that we may encounter.


 


    Our manufacturing and other processes utilize sophisticated
    equipment, which sometimes require a significant amount of time
    to obtain and install. Our business could suffer if certain
    manufacturing or other equipment, or a portion or all of our
    facilities were to become inoperable for a period of time. This
    could occur for various reasons, including catastrophic events
    such as earthquake, monsoon, hurricane or explosion, unexpected
    equipment failures or delays in obtaining components or
    replacements thereof, as well as construction delays or defects
    and other events, both within and outside of our control. Our
    inability to timely manufacture any of our significant products
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Our
    substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair
    our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our debt
    obligations. Any refinancing of this substantial debt could be
    at significantly higher interest rates.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we had total debt of approximately
    $1.0 billion. Our substantial indebtedness and other
    financial obligations could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    impair our ability to obtain financing in the future for working
    capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate
    purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with
    financial and affirmative and restrictive covenants in our debt
    agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of a
    failure that is not cured or waived;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    for interest payments on our indebtedness and other financial
    obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow
    to fund working capital and capital expenditures;




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the industry in which we operate; and




 



     
        • 

    
    place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that have proportionally less debt.





 


    If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other
    financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or
    refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions,
    seek additional equity capital or sell our assets. We might then
    be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell our assets
    on satisfactory terms, if at all. Any refinancing of our
    indebtedness could be at significantly higher interest rates,
    and/or incur
    significant transaction fees.


 



    Our
    business will continue to expose us to risks of environmental
    liabilities.


 


    Our product and API development programs, manufacturing
    processes and distribution logistics involve the controlled use
    of hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds in our
    owned and leased facilities. As a result, we are subject to
    numerous and increasingly stringent federal, state and local
    environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other
    things, the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
    treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous materials and the
    discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Our programs and
    processes expose us to risks that an accidental contamination
    could result in (i) our noncompliance with such
    environmental laws and regulations and (ii) regulatory
    enforcement actions or claims for personal injury and property
    damage against us. If an accident or environmental discharge
    occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior
    operations, including by prior owners and operators of
    properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup
    obligations, damages and fines. The substantial unexpected costs
    we may incur could have a material and adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash
    flows. In addition, environmental permits and controls are
    required for some of our operations, and these permits are
    subject to modification, renewal and





    
    31



Table of Contents





    revocation by the issuing authorities. Any modification,
    revocation or non-renewal of our environmental permits could
    have a material adverse effect on our ongoing operations,
    business and financial condition. Our environmental capital
    expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase
    in the future as a result of changes in environmental laws and
    regulations or increased development or manufacturing activities
    at any of our facilities.


 



    Global
    economic conditions could harm us.


 


    Recent global market and economic conditions have been
    unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and
    recession in most major economies during 2009, 2010 and
    continuing in 2011. Continued concerns about the systemic impact
    of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs,
    geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and
    the global real estate markets have contributed to increased
    market volatility and diminished expectations for western and
    emerging economies. These conditions, combined with volatile oil
    prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased
    unemployment, have contributed to volatility of unprecedented
    levels.


 


    As a result of these market conditions, the cost and
    availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely
    affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads.
    Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the
    strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and
    institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to
    provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have
    resulted in a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers
    alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure
    spending. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and
    international markets and economies and prolonged declines in
    business consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity
    and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial
    condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance
    maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet
    liquidity needs.


 



    Our
    foreign operations may become less attractive if political and
    diplomatic relations between the United States and any
    country where we conduct business operations
    deteriorates.


 


    The relationship between the United States and the foreign
    countries where we conduct business operations may weaken over
    time. Changes in the state of the relations between any such
    country and the United States are difficult to predict and could
    adversely affect our future operations. This could lead to a
    decline in our profitability. Any meaningful deterioration of
    the political and diplomatic relations between the United States
    and the relevant country could have a material adverse effect on
    our operations.


 



    Our
    global operations expose us to risks and challenges associated
    with conducting business internationally.


 


    We operate on a global basis with offices or activities in
    Europe, Africa, Asia, South America, Australasia and North
    America. We face several risks inherent in conducting business
    internationally, including compliance with international and
    U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international
    operations. These laws and regulations include data privacy
    requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition
    regulations, import and trade restrictions, export requirements,
    U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and
    local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental
    officials or certain payments or remunerations to customers.
    Given the high level of complexity of these laws, however, there
    is a risk that some provisions may be inadvertently breached,
    for example through fraudulent or negligent behavior of
    individual employees, our failure to comply with certain formal
    documentation requirements or otherwise. Violations of these
    laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions
    against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on
    the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include
    prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more
    countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand,
    our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and
    retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our
    success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these
    risks and manage these difficulties.




    
    32



Table of Contents





    In addition to the foregoing, engaging in international business
    inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements
    and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    political and economic instability;




 



     
        • 

    
    potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, customs charges,
    bureaucratic requirements and other trade barriers;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign
    operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties protecting or procuring intellectual property
    rights; and




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.





 


    These factors or any combination of these factors may adversely
    affect our revenue or our overall financial performance.


 



    We
    have exposure to foreign tax liabilities.


 


    As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes
    as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and
    various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required
    in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and
    other tax liabilities. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may
    have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate.
    Recent proposals by the current U.S. administration for
    fundamental U.S. international tax reform, including
    without limitation provisions that would limit the ability of
    U.S. multinationals to defer U.S. taxes on foreign
    income, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on
    our effective tax rate following the Arrow Acquisition.


 



    Foreign
    currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and
    financial results.


 


    We do business and generate sales in numerous countries outside
    the United States. As such, foreign currency fluctuations may
    affect the costs that we incur in such international operations.
    Some of our operating expenses are incurred in
    non-U.S. dollar
    currencies. The appreciation of
    non-U.S. dollar
    currencies in those countries where we have operations against
    the U.S. dollar could increase our costs and could harm our
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Risks
    Relating To Investing In the Pharmaceutical Industry


 



    Extensive
    industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a
    significant impact on our business, especially our product
    development, manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities.


 


    All pharmaceutical companies, including Watson, are subject to
    extensive, complex, costly and evolving government regulation.
    For the U.S., this is principally administered by the FDA and to
    a lesser extent by the DEA and state government agencies, as
    well as by varying regulatory agencies in foreign countries
    where products or product candidates are being manufactured
    and/or
    marketed. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the
    Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and
    regulations, and similar foreign statutes and regulations,
    govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing,
    labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval,
    advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products.


 


    Under these regulations, we are subject to periodic inspection
    of our facilities, procedures and operations
    and/or the
    testing of our products by the FDA, the DEA and other
    authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that
    we are in compliance with all applicable regulations. In
    addition, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies conduct
    pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections to
    determine whether our systems and processes are in compliance
    with cGMP and other regulations. Following such inspections, the
    FDA or other agency may issue observations, notices, citations
    and/or
    Warning Letters that could cause us to modify certain activities
    identified during the inspection. FDA guidelines specify that a
    Warning Letter is issued only for violations of “regulatory
    significance” for which the failure to adequately





    
    33



Table of Contents





    and promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an
    enforcement action. We are also required to report adverse
    events associated with our products to FDA and other regulatory
    authorities. Unexpected or serious health or safety concerns
    would result in product liability claims, labeling changes,
    recalls, market withdrawals or other regulatory actions.


 


    Our manufacturing facility in Corona, California is currently
    subject to a consent decree of permanent injunction. We cannot
    assure that the FDA will determine we have adequately corrected
    deficiencies at our Corona manufacturing site, that subsequent
    FDA inspections at any of our manufacturing sites will not
    result in additional inspectional observations at such sites,
    that approval of any of the pending or subsequently submitted
    NDAs, ANDAs or supplements to such applications by Watson or our
    subsidiaries will be granted or that the FDA will not seek to
    impose additional sanctions against Watson or any of its
    subsidiaries. The range of possible sanctions includes, among
    others, FDA issuance of adverse publicity, product recalls or
    seizures, fines, total or partial suspension of production
    and/or
    distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of product
    applications, enforcement actions, injunctions, and civil or
    criminal prosecution. Any such sanctions, if imposed, could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, operating results,
    financial condition and cash flows. Under certain circumstances,
    the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug
    approvals. Similar sanctions as detailed above may be available
    to the FDA under a consent decree, depending upon the actual
    terms of such decree. Although we have instituted internal
    compliance programs, if these programs do not meet regulatory
    agency standards or if compliance is deemed deficient in any
    significant way, it could materially harm our business. Certain
    of our vendors are subject to similar regulation and periodic
    inspections.


 


    The process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture
    and market pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming
    and costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be
    affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We are
    dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental or third-party
    approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping our
    products. Consequently, there is always the chance that we will
    not obtain FDA or other necessary approvals, or that the rate,
    timing and cost of obtaining such approvals, will adversely
    affect our product introduction plans or results of operations.
    We carry inventories of certain product(s) in anticipation of
    launch, and if such product(s) are not subsequently launched, we
    may be required to write-off the related inventory.


 


    Our Distribution operations and our customers are subject to
    various regulatory requirements, including requirements from the
    DEA, FDA, state boards of pharmacy and city and county health
    regulators, among others. These include licensing, registration,
    recordkeeping, security and reporting requirements. Although
    physicians may prescribe FDA approved products for an “off
    label” indication, we are permitted to market our products
    only for the indications for which they have been approved. Some
    of our products are prescribed off label and FDA or other
    regulatory authorities could take enforcement actions if they
    conclude that we or our distributors have engaged in off label
    marketing. In addition, several states and the federal
    government have begun to enforce anti-counterfeit drug pedigree
    laws which require the tracking of all transactions involving
    prescription drugs beginning with the manufacturer, through the
    supply chain, and down to the pharmacy or other health care
    provider dispensing or administering prescription drug products.
    For example, effective July 1, 2006, the Florida Department
    of Health began enforcement of the drug pedigree requirements
    for distribution of prescription drugs in the State of Florida.
    Pursuant to Florida law and regulations, wholesalers and
    distributors, including our subsidiary, Anda Pharmaceuticals,
    are required to maintain records documenting the chain of
    custody of prescription drug products they distribute beginning
    with the purchase of products from the manufacturer. These
    entities are required to provide documentation of the prior
    transaction(s) to their customers in Florida, including
    pharmacies and other health care entities. Several other states
    have proposed or enacted legislation to implement similar or
    more stringent drug pedigree requirements. In addition, federal
    law requires that a “non-authorized distributor of
    record” must provide a drug pedigree documenting the prior
    purchase of a prescription drug from the manufacturer or from an
    “authorized distributor of record.” In cases where the
    wholesaler or distributor selling the drug product is not deemed
    an “authorized distributor of record” it would need to
    maintain such records. FDA had announced its intent to impose
    additional drug pedigree requirements (e.g., tracking of lot
    numbers and documentation of all transactions) through
    implementation of drug pedigree regulations which were to have
    taken effect on December 1, 2006. However, a federal
    appeals court has issued a preliminary injunction to several
    wholesale distributors granting an indefinite stay of these
    regulations pending a challenge to the regulations by these
    wholesale distributors.




    
    34



Table of Contents






    Federal
    regulation of arrangements between manufacturers of brand and
    generic products could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    As part of the MMA, companies are required to file with the FTC
    and the Department of Justice certain types of agreements
    entered into between brand and generic pharmaceutical companies
    related to the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic
    versions of brand drugs. This requirement, as well as new
    legislation pending in U.S. Congress related to settlement
    between brand and generic drug manufacturers, could affect the
    manner in which generic drug manufacturers resolve intellectual
    property litigation and other disputes with brand pharmaceutical
    companies and could result generally in an increase in
    private-party litigation against pharmaceutical companies or
    additional investigations or proceedings by the FTC or other
    governmental authorities. The impact of this requirement, the
    pending legislation and the potential private-party lawsuits
    associated with arrangements between brand name and generic drug
    manufacturers, is uncertain and could adversely affect our
    business. For example, in January 2009, the FTC and the State of
    California filed a lawsuit against us alleging that our
    settlement with Solvay related to our ANDA for a generic version
    of
    Androgel®

    is unlawful. From February 2009 through September 2010, numerous
    private parties purporting to represent various classes of
    plaintiffs filed similar lawsuits. Additionally, we have
    received requests for information, in the form of civil
    investigative demands or subpoenas, from the FTC, and are
    subject to ongoing FTC investigations, concerning our settlement
    with Cephalon related to our ANDA for a generic version of
    Provigil®.

    We have also received requests for information in connection
    with similar investigations into settlements and other
    arrangements between competing pharmaceutical companies by the
    European Competition Commission. Any adverse outcome of these
    actions or investigations, or actions or investigations related
    to other settlements we have entered into, could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows. See Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 16 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 



    We are
    subject to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws
    which may adversely affect our business.


 


    In the United States, most of our products are reimbursed under
    federal and state health care programs such as Medicaid,
    Medicare, TriCare, and or state pharmaceutical assistance
    programs. Many foreign countries have similar laws. Federal and
    state laws designed to prevent fraud and abuse under these
    programs prohibit pharmaceutical companies from offering
    valuable items or services to customers or potential customers
    to induce them to buy, prescribe, or recommend Watson’s
    product (the so-called “antikickback” laws).
    Exceptions are provided for discounts and certain other
    arrangements if specified requirements are met. Other federal
    and state laws, and similar foreign laws, not only prohibit us
    from submitting any false information to government
    reimbursement programs but also prohibit us and our employees
    from doing anything to cause, assist, or encourage our customers
    to submit false claims for payment to these programs. Violations
    of the fraud and abuse laws may result in severe penalties
    against the responsible employees and Watson, including jail
    sentences, large fines, and the exclusion of Watson products
    from reimbursement under federal and state programs. Watson is
    committed to conducting the sales and marketing of its products
    in compliance with the healthcare fraud and abuse laws, but
    certain applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence
    of specific intent to defraud. Furthermore, should there be
    ambiguity, a governmental authority may take a position contrary
    to a position we have taken, or should an employee violate these
    laws without our knowledge, a governmental authority may impose
    civil and/or
    criminal sanctions. For example, in December 2009, we learned
    that numerous pharmaceutical companies, including certain
    subsidiaries of the Company, have been named as defendants in a
    qui tam action pending in the United States District Court for
    the District of Massachusetts alleging that the defendants
    falsely reported to the United States that certain
    pharmaceutical products were eligible for Medicaid reimbursement
    and thereby allegedly caused false claims for payment to be made
    through the Medicaid program. Any adverse outcome of this
    action, or the imposition of penalties or sanctions for failing
    to comply with the fraud and abuse laws, could adversely affect
    us and may have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See
    Legal Matters in “NOTE 16 —
    Commitments and Contingencies” in the accompanying
    “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this
    Annual Report.




    
    35



Table of Contents






    Healthcare
    reform and a reduction in the coverage and reimbursement levels
    by governmental authorities, HMOs, MCOs or other third-party
    payers may adversely affect our business.


 


    Demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which
    coverage and reimbursement is available from third-party payers,
    such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private payors.
    In order to commercialize our products, we have obtained from
    government authorities and private health insurers and other
    organizations, such as HMOs and MCOs, recognition for coverage
    and reimbursement at varying levels for the cost of certain of
    our products and related treatments. Third-party payers
    increasingly challenge pricing of pharmaceutical products.
    Further, the trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S., the
    growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and legislative
    proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs
    create uncertainties regarding the future levels of coverage and
    reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. Such cost containment
    measures and healthcare reform could reduce reimbursement of our
    pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a
    reduction in the product demand. This could affect our ability
    to sell our products and could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, results of operations, financial condition and
    cash flows.


 


    There is uncertainty surrounding implementation of legislation
    involving payments for pharmaceuticals under government programs
    such as Medicare, Medicaid and Tricare. Depending on how
    existing provisions are implemented, the methodology for certain
    payment rates and other computations under the Medicaid Drug
    Rebate program reimbursements may be reduced or not be available
    for some of Watson’s products. Additionally, any
    reimbursement granted may not be maintained or limits on
    reimbursement available from third-party payers may reduce
    demand for, or negatively affect the price of those products.
    Ongoing uncertainty and legal challenges to the PPACA, including
    but not limited to, modification in calculation of rebates,
    mandated financial or other contributions to close the Medicare
    Part D coverage gap “donut hole”, calculation of
    AMP, and other provisions could have a material adverse effect
    on our business. In addition, various legislative and regulatory
    initiatives in states, including proposed modifications to
    reimbursements and rebates, product pedigree and tracking,
    pharmaceutical waste “take-back” initiatives, and
    therapeutic category generic substitution carve-out legislation
    may also have a negative impact on the Company. Watson maintains
    a full-time government affairs department in Washington, DC,
    which is responsible for coordinating state and federal
    legislative activities, and place a major emphasis in terms of
    management time and resources to ensure a fair and balance
    legislative and regulatory arena.


 


    PPACA also extended Medicaid rebates to Medicaid MCOs. MCO
    rebates may have a significant impact on our brand portfolio.
    Medicaid Managed care enrollment is over 70% of total Medicaid
    enrollment. This provision is likely to increase
    manufacturers’ Medicaid Rebate liability substantially,
    particularly in states with large Medicaid managed care
    enrollment (e.g., Michigan, Kentucky, Colorado, Arizona). The
    effective date of this was January 1, 2010.


 



    The
    pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and our future
    revenue growth and profitability are dependent on our timely
    development and launches of new products ahead of our
    competitors.


 


    We face strong competition in our Global Generics, Global Brands
    and Distribution businesses. The intensely competitive
    environment requires an ongoing, extensive search for
    technological innovations and the ability to market products
    effectively, including the ability to communicate the
    effectiveness, safety and value of brand products to healthcare
    professionals in private practice, group practices and MCOs. Our
    competitors vary depending upon product categories, and within
    each product category, upon dosage strengths and drug-delivery
    systems. Based on total assets, annual revenues, and market
    capitalization, we are smaller than certain of our national and
    international competitors in the brand and distribution product
    arenas. Most of our competitors have been in business for a
    longer period of time than us, have a greater number of products
    on the market and have greater financial and other resources
    than we do. Furthermore, recent trends in this industry are
    toward further market consolidation of large drug companies into
    a smaller number of very large entities, further concentrating
    financial, technical and market strength and increasing
    competitive pressure in the industry. If we directly compete
    with them for the same markets
    and/or
    products, their financial strength could prevent us from
    capturing a profitable share of those markets. It is possible
    that developments by our competitors will make our products or
    technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.




    
    36



Table of Contents





    Revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic
    pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on
    certain regulatory and competitive factors. As patents for brand
    name products and related exclusivity periods expire, the first
    generic manufacturer to receive regulatory approval for generic
    equivalents of such products is generally able to achieve
    significant market penetration. Therefore, our ability to
    increase or maintain revenues and profitability in our generics
    business is largely dependent on our success in challenging
    patents and developing non-infringing formulations of
    proprietary products. As competing manufacturers receive
    regulatory approvals on similar products or as brand
    manufacturers launch generic versions of such products (for
    which no separate regulatory approval is required), market
    share, revenues and gross profit typically decline, in some
    cases dramatically. Accordingly, the level of market share,
    revenue and gross profit attributable to a particular generic
    product normally is related to the number of competitors in that
    product’s market and the timing of that product’s
    regulatory approval and launch, in relation to competing
    approvals and launches. Consequently, we must continue to
    develop and introduce new products in a timely and
    cost-effective manner to maintain our revenues and gross
    margins. We may have fewer opportunities to launch significant
    generic products in the future, as the number and size of
    proprietary products that are subject to patent challenges is
    expected to decrease in the next several years compared to
    historical levels. Additionally, as new competitors enter the
    market, there may be increased pricing pressure on certain
    products, which would result in lower gross margins. This is
    particularly true in the case of certain Asian and other
    overseas generic competitors, who may be able to produce
    products at costs lower than the costs of domestic
    manufacturers. If we experience substantial competition from
    Asian or other overseas generic competitors with lower
    production costs, our profit margins will suffer.


 


    We also face strong competition in our Distribution business,
    where we compete with a number of large wholesalers and other
    distributors of pharmaceuticals, including McKesson Corporation,
    AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., which
    market both brand and generic pharmaceutical products to their
    customers. These companies are significant customers of our
    Global Brands and Global Generics businesses. As generic
    products generally have higher gross margins for distributors,
    each of the large wholesalers, on an increasing basis, are
    offering pricing incentives on brand products if the customers
    purchase a large portion of their generic pharmaceutical
    products from the primary wholesaler. As we do not offer a full
    line of brand products to our customers, we are at times
    competitively disadvantaged and must compete with these
    wholesalers based upon our very competitive pricing for generic
    products, greater service levels and our well-established
    telemarketing relationships with our customers, supplemented by
    our electronic ordering capabilities. The large wholesalers have
    historically not used telemarketers to sell to their customers,
    but recently have begun to do so. Additionally, generic
    manufacturers are increasingly marketing their products directly
    to smaller chains and thus increasingly bypassing wholesalers
    and distributors. Increased competition in the generic industry
    as a whole may result in increased price erosion in the pursuit
    of market share.


 



    Sales
    of our products may continue to be adversely affected by the
    continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the
    concentration of our customer base.


 


    Our principal customers in our brand and generic pharmaceutical
    operations are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug
    store chains. These customers comprise a significant part of the
    distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the
    U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo
    significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions
    among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug
    store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale
    distributors and large chain drug stores control a significant
    share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug
    wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other
    competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including Watson.


 


    For the year ended December 31, 2010, our three largest
    customers accounted for 14%, 11% and 6% respectively, of our net
    revenues. The loss of any of these customers could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows. In addition, none of our
    customers are party to any long-term supply agreements with us,
    and thus are able to change suppliers freely should they wish to
    do so.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B