Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to Our Business” in this
    Annual Report.


 



    Generic
    Segment


 


    Watson is a leader in the development, manufacture and sale of
    generic pharmaceutical products. When patents or other
    regulatory exclusivity no longer protect a brand product,
    opportunities exist to introduce off-patent or generic
    counterparts to the brand product. These generic products are
    bioequivalent to their brand name counterparts and are generally
    sold at significantly lower prices than the brand product. As
    such, generic pharmaceuticals provide an effective and
    cost-efficient alternative to brand products. Our portfolio of
    generic



    
    3



Table of Contents




    products includes products we have developed internally,
    products we have licensed from third parties and products we
    distribute for third parties. Net revenues in our Generic
    segment accounted for $1.5 billion or approximately 60% of
    our total net revenues in 2007.


 


    Our strategy is to develop generic pharmaceuticals that are
    difficult to formulate or manufacture or will complement or
    broaden our existing product lines. Since the prices and unit
    volumes of our brand products will likely decrease upon the
    introduction of generic alternatives, we also intend to market
    generic alternatives to our brand products where market
    conditions and the competitive environment justify such
    activities. Additionally, we intend to distribute generic
    versions of third parties’ brand products (sometimes known
    as “Authorized Generics”) to the extent such
    arrangements are complementary to our core business.


 


    Our portfolio of 150 generic pharmaceutical product families
    includes the following products, which represented 60% of total
    Generic segment net revenues in 2007:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Watson Generic Product



 



    Comparable Brand Name



 



    Therapeutic Classification




 





    Bupropion hydrochloride SR



 


    Zyban®


 


    Aid to smoking cessation





    Bupropion hydrochloride SR



 


    Wellbutrin
    SR®


 


    Anti-depressant





    Bupropion hydrochloride XL



 


    Wellbutrin
    XL®


 


    Anti-depressant





    Cartia
    XT®



 


    Cardizem®
    CD


 


    Anti-hypertensive





    Glipizide ER



 


    Glucotrol®
    XL


 


    Anti-diabetic





    Hydrocodone bitartrate/



 


    Lorcet®,
    Vicodin®,


 


 





    acetaminophen



 


    Lortab®,
    Norco®/Anexia


 


    Analgesic





    Levora®



 


    Nordette®


 


    Oral contraceptive





    Low-Ogestrel®



 


    Lo-Ovral®


 


    Oral contraceptive





    Lutera®



 


    Alesse®


 


    Oral contraceptive





    Microgestin®/Microgestin®
    Fe



 


    Loestrin®/Loestrin®
    Fe


 


    Oral contraceptive





    Necon®



 


    Ortho-Novum®,
    Modicon®


 


    Oral contraceptive





    Nicotine polacrilex gum



 


    Nicorette®


 


    Aid to smoking cessation





    Nicotine transdermal system



 


    Habitrol®


 


    Aid to smoking cessation





    Oxycodone/acetaminophen



 


    Percocet®


 


    Analgesic





    Oxycodone/HCL



 


    Oxycontin®


 


    Analgesic





    Pravastatin sodium



 


    Pravachol®


 


    Cholesterol-lowering agent




Quasensetm


 


    Seasonale®


 


    Oral contraceptive





    Taztia
    XT®



 


    Tiazac®


 


    Anti-hypertensive





    Testosterone cypionate injection



 


    Depo-Testosterone®


 


    Hormone replacement





    Testosterone enanthate injection



 


    Delatestryl®


 


    Hormone replacement




TriNessatm


 


    Ortho
    Tri-Cyclen®


 


    Oral contraceptive





    Trivora®



 


    Triphasil®


 


    Oral contraceptive





    Zovia®



 


    Demulen®


 


    Oral contraceptive








 


    Our Generic Division also receives other revenues consisting
    primarily of royalties and commission revenue. We receive
    royalties on GlaxoSmithKline’s (“GSK’s”)
    sales of Wellbutrin
    XL®
    150mg and receive royalties on sales by Sandoz Pharmaceutical
    Corporation, a subsidiary of Novartis AG (“Sandoz”) of
    metoprolol succinate 50 mg extended release tablets.
    Additionally, we promote fentanyl citrate troche on behalf of
    Cephalon, Inc. (“Cephalon”) and receive commission
    revenue based on Cephalon’s sales. Other revenue totaled
    $93 million for 2007 or 6.2% of our total Generic segment
    net revenue.


 


    We predominantly market our generic products to various drug
    wholesalers and national retail drugstore chains utilizing 25
    sales and marketing professionals. We sell our generic products
    primarily under the “Watson Laboratories” and
    “Watson Pharma” labels, with the exception of our
    over-the-counter products which we sell under our
    Rugby®
    label or under private label.



    
    4



Table of Contents





    Generic
    Business Development


 


    During 2007, we expanded our generic product line with the
    launch of 16 generic products. Key launches in 2007 included
    bupropion hydrochloride XL 300mg tablets, an anti-depressant
    launched in June 2007; transdermal fentanyl, an analgesic,
    launched in August 2007; albuterol sulfate inhalation solution,
    a bronchodilator, launched in September 2007 and
    Tiliatm
    Fe, an oral contraceptive, launched in October 2007.
    Additionally, beginning in July 2007, we earned royalties on
    Sandoz’s sales of metoprolol succinate 50mg extended
    release tablets.


 


    In 2007, our product development efforts resulted in the filing
    of 21 Abbreviated New Drug Applications (“ANDAs”). At
    December 31, 2007, we had more than 60 ANDAs on file. See
    the “Government Regulation and Regulatory Matters”
    section below for a description of our process for obtaining
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”)
    approval for our products. See also “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to our Business —
    Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to
    have, a significant impact on our business, especially our
    product development, manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities.” in this Annual Report.


 



    Generic
    Research and Development


 


    We devote significant resources to the research and development
    (“R&D”) of generic products and proprietary drug
    delivery technologies. We incurred generic segment R&D
    expenses of $102 million in 2007, $84 million in 2006
    and $81 million in 2005. We are presently developing a
    number of generic products through a combination of internal and
    collaborative programs.


 


    Our generic R&D strategy focuses on the following product
    development areas:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    off-patent drugs that are difficult to develop or manufacture,
    or that complement or broaden our existing product lines;




 



     
        • 

    
    the development of sustained-release and other drug delivery
    technologies and the application of these technologies to
    existing drug forms; and




 



     
        • 

    
    using in-house technologies to develop new products.





 


    As of December 31, 2007, we conducted R&D in Corona,
    California; Davie and Weston, Florida; Copiague, New York; Salt
    Lake City, Utah; Changzhou City, People’s Republic of
    China; and Ambernath, Dombivli and Mumbai, India.


 



    Brand
    Segment


 


    Newly developed pharmaceutical products normally are patented
    and, as a result, are generally offered by a single provider
    when first introduced to the market. We currently market a
    number of branded products to physicians, hospitals, and other
    markets that we serve. We classify these patented and off-patent
    trademarked products as our brand pharmaceutical products. Net
    revenues in our Brand segment accounted for $429 million or
    approximately 17% of our total net revenues in 2007.


 


    Our portfolio of 27 brand pharmaceutical product families
    includes the following products, which represented 65% of total
    Brand segment net revenues in 2007:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Watson Brand Product



 



    Active Ingredient



 



    Therapeutic Classification




 





    Androderm®



 


    Testosterone (transdermal patch)


 


    Male hormone replacement





    Ferrlecit®



 


    Sodium ferric gluconate in sucrose injection


 


    Hematinic





    INFeD®



 


    Iron dextran


 


    Hematinic





    Oxytrol®



 


    Oxybutynin (transdermal patch)


 


    Overactive bladder





    Trelstar®
    Depot



 


    Triptorelin pamoate injection


 


    Prostate cancer





    Trelstar®
    LA



 


    Triptorelin pamoate injection


 


    Prostate cancer









    
    5



Table of Contents




    We market our brand products through approximately 330 sales
    professionals within our specialized sales and marketing groups.
    Each of our sales and marketing groups focuses on physicians who
    specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of particular medical
    conditions and each group offers products to satisfy the unique
    needs of these physicians. We believe this focused sales and
    marketing approach enables us to foster close professional
    relationships with specialty physicians, as well as cover the
    primary care physicians who also prescribe in selected
    therapeutic areas. We generally sell our brand products under
    the “Watson Pharma” and the
    “Oclassen®
    Dermatologics” labels.


 


    Our sales and marketing groups have targeted selected
    therapeutic areas predominately because of their potential
    growth opportunities and the size of the physician audience. We
    believe that the nature of these markets and the identifiable
    base of physician prescribers provide us with opportunities to
    achieve significant market penetration through our specialized
    sales forces. Typically, our brand products realize higher
    profit margins than our generic products. We intend to continue
    to expand our brand product portfolio through internal product
    development, strategic alliances and acquisitions.


 


    Our Brand segment also receives other revenues consisting of
    co-promotion revenue and royalties. We promote
    AndroGel®
    on behalf of Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a wholly owned
    subsidiary of Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Solvay”)
    and other selected products on behalf of third parties. We also
    record revenue (including the amortization of deferred revenue)
    relating to our obligation to manufacture and supply
    Fortamet®
    and
    Altoprev®
    to Sciele Pharma, Inc. (“Sciele”). Other revenue
    totaled $54 million for 2007 or 12% of our total Brand
    segment net revenue.


 


    Our Brand segment currently develops, manufactures, markets,
    sells and distributes products primarily through two sales and
    marketing groups, Specialty Products and Nephrology.


 



    Specialty
    Products


 


    Our Specialty Products product line focuses on urology products
    that we market to urologists, primary care physicians,
    endocrinologists and gynecologists. We actively promote the
    following products through this group:
    Trelstar®
    DEPOT and
    Trelstar®
    LA (collectively
    “Trelstar®”)
    and
    Oxytrol®.
    We also promote
    AndroGel®
    on behalf of Solvay and other selected products on behalf of
    third parties.


 



    Nephrology


 


    Our Nephrology product line consists of products for the
    treatment of iron deficiency anemia. Our primary products in the
    Nephrology group are
    Ferrlecit®
    and
    INFeD®,
    which are indicated for patients undergoing hemodialysis in
    conjunction with erythropoietin therapy.
    Ferrlecit®,
    introduced in 1999, was granted a five-year exclusivity period
    by the FDA as a new chemical entity. Regulatory exclusivity on
    Ferrlecit®
    ended in August 2004. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to our Business —
    Loss of revenues from
    Ferrlecit®,
    a significant product, could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.” in this Annual Report.


 



    Brand
    Business Development


 


    During 2007, we entered into agreements with Depomed, Inc. and
    Galderma S.A. for our Specialty Products sales force to promote
    ProQuin®
    XR to urologists and gynecologists and
    Tri-Luma®
    to gynecologists, respectively, in the U.S.


 



    Brand
    Research and Development


 


    We devote significant resources to the R&D of brand
    products and proprietary drug delivery technologies. A number of
    our brand products are protected by patents and have enjoyed
    market exclusivity for 5 to 10 years and sometimes even
    longer. We incurred brand segment R&D expenses of
    $42 million in 2007, $47 million in 2006 and
    $44 million in 2005.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    Our brand R&D strategy focuses on the following product
    development areas:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the application of proprietary drug-delivery technology for new
    product development in specialty areas; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the acquisition of mid-to-late development-stage brand drugs.





 


    We are presently developing a number of brand products, some of
    which utilize novel drug-delivery systems, through a combination
    of internal and collaborative programs.


 



    Distribution
    Segment


 


    Our Distribution business, which consists of our Anda, Anda
    Pharmaceuticals and Valmed (also known as “VIP”)
    subsidiaries (collectively “Anda”), primarily
    distributes generic pharmaceutical products to independent
    pharmacies, alternate care providers (hospitals, nursing homes
    and mail order pharmacies) and pharmacy chains, and generic
    products and certain selective brand products to
    physicians’ offices. Additionally, we sell to members of
    buying groups, which are independent pharmacies that band
    together to enhance their buying power. We believe that we are
    able to effectively compete in the distribution market, and
    therefore optimize our market share, based on three critical
    elements: (i) competitive pricing, (ii) responsive
    customer service that includes, among other things, next day
    delivery to the entire U.S. and high levels of inventory
    for approximately 8,000 SKUs, and (iii) well established
    telemarketing relationships with our customers, supplemented by
    our electronic ordering capabilities. While we purchase most of
    the approximate 8,000 SKUs in our distribution operations from
    third party manufacturers, we also utilize these operations for
    the sale and marketing of our own products, and our
    collaborative partners’ products. We are the only
    U.S. pharmaceutical company that has meaningful
    distribution operations with direct access to independent
    pharmacies and we believe that our distribution operation is a
    strategic asset in the national distribution of generic
    pharmaceuticals.


 


    Our growth in revenues in our distribution operations will
    primarily be dependent on the launch of new generic products,
    offset by the overall level of net price and unit declines on
    existing distributed products and subject to changes in market
    share.


 


    In our distribution operations, we presently distribute products
    from our facilities in Weston, Florida and Groveport, Ohio. For
    the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 60% of our
    distribution sales were shipped from our Groveport, Ohio
    facility and 40% from our Weston, Florida facility, though this
    percentage can vary. While our Weston, Florida facility is
    operating at 80% capacity, our 355,000 square foot Ohio
    distribution center currently operates at approximately 30%
    capacity, and provides us with additional distribution capacity
    for the foreseeable future.


 



    Strategic
    Alliances and Collaborations


 


    Through collaborative agreements and strategic alliances, we
    develop and manufacture products that are marketed by other
    pharmaceutical companies, including products that utilize our
    patented technologies and formulation capabilities. Pursuant to
    a manufacturing and supply agreement and a license agreement, we
    supply
    Fortamet®
    and
    Altoprev®
    to Sciele.


 


    During 2007, we continued our generic product development
    alliance with Cipla Ltd. (“Cipla”), the second largest
    pharmaceutical company in India. Under the terms of the
    agreement announced in December 2002, we share development
    responsibilities. Watson is responsible for conducting
    bioequivalence studies, pursuing regulatory approvals for all
    developed products and has exclusive U.S. marketing rights
    for the products. Cipla is responsible for manufacturing of
    products.


 


    In 2004, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with
    Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (“Kissei”) to develop
    and market Kissei’s novel compound silodosin for the North
    American market. The compound was originally developed and
    launched by Kissei in Japan as
    Urief®
    and is marketed in Japan in cooperation with Daiichi Sankyo
    Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. for the treatment of the signs and
    symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (“BPH”).



    
    7



Table of Contents




    In October 2006, we entered into an agreement with Solvay to
    utilize Watson’s Specialty Products sales force to
    co-promote
    AndroGel®
    to urologists in the U.S.


 


    Through a R&D and supply agreement with Takeda Chemical
    Industries, Ltd. (“Takeda”), we provide contract
    R&D and manufacturing services to develop a combination
    product consisting of Takeda’s
    Actos®
    (pioglitazone) and our extended-release metformin, which is
    administered once a day for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes. We
    are responsible for the formulation and manufacture of this
    combination product and Takeda is responsible for obtaining
    regulatory approval of and marketing this combination product,
    both in the U.S. and in other countries. Takeda submitted a
    New Drug Application (“NDA”) in 2006. Final approval
    will be subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions,
    including resolution of the Official Action Indicated
    (“OAI”) status of our Davie, Florida facility.


 



    Financial
    Information About Segments


 


    Watson evaluates the performance of its Brand, Generic and
    Distribution business segments based on net revenues, gross
    profit and net contribution. Summarized net revenues, gross
    profit and contribution information for each of the last three
    fiscal years, where applicable, is presented in
    “NOTE 12 — Operating Segments” in the
    accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements” in this Annual Report.


 



    Customers


 


    In our Generic and Brand operations, we sell our brand and
    generic pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers,
    retailers and distributors, including large chain drug stores,
    hospitals, clinics, government agencies and managed healthcare
    providers such as health maintenance organizations and other
    institutions. In our Distribution business, we primarily
    distribute generic pharmaceutical products to independent
    pharmacies, members of buying groups, alternate care providers
    (hospitals, nursing homes and mail order pharmacies) and
    pharmacy chains, and sell generic products and certain selected
    brand products to physicians’ offices.


 


    Sales to certain of our customers accounted for 10% or more of
    our annual net revenues during the past three years. The
    following table illustrates those customers and the respective
    percentage of our net revenues for which they account:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Customer



 


    2007


 


 


    2006


 


 


    2005


 



 





    McKesson Corporation



 


 


    12


    %


 


 


    17


    %


 


 


    16


    %





    Walgreen Co. 



 


 


    11


    %


 


 


    8


    %


 


 


    10


    %





    AmeriSourceBergen Corp. 



 


 


    9


    %


 


 


    13


    %


 


 


    13


    %








 


    Certain of these customers comprise a significant part of the
    distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the
    U.S. In recent years, this distribution network has
    undergone significant consolidation, marked by mergers and
    acquisitions among wholesale distributors and large retail drug
    store chains. As a result, a small number of large, wholesale
    distributors and large chain drug stores control a significant
    share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug
    wholesalers and retailers may adversely impact pricing and
    create other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers. Our
    Distribution business competes directly with our large
    wholesaler customers with respect to the distribution of generic
    products.


 


    The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risk Relating to Investing in the
    Pharmaceutical Industry.” in this Annual Report.


 



    Competition


 


    The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. In our
    generic and brand product operations, we compete with different
    companies depending upon product categories, and within each
    product category, upon dosage strengths and drug delivery
    systems. Such competitors include the major brand name and
    generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical products. In addition to
    product development, other competitive factors in the
    pharmaceutical industry include product quality and price,
    reputation and service and access to proprietary and



    
    8



Table of Contents




    technical information. It is possible that developments by
    others will make our products or technologies noncompetitive or
    obsolete.


 


    Competing in the brand product business requires us to identify
    and bring to market new products embodying technological
    innovations. Successful marketing of brand products depends
    primarily on the ability to communicate their effectiveness,
    safety and value to healthcare professionals in private
    practice, group practices and managed care organizations. We
    anticipate that our brand product offerings will support our
    existing areas of therapeutic focus. Based upon business
    conditions and other factors, we regularly reevaluate our
    business strategies and may from time to time reallocate our
    resources from one therapeutic area to another, withdraw from a
    therapeutic area or add an additional therapeutic area in order
    to maximize our overall growth opportunities. Our competitors in
    brand products include major brand name manufacturers of
    pharmaceuticals. Based on total assets, annual revenues and
    market capitalization, we are considerably smaller than these
    competitors and other national competitors in the brand product
    area. These competitors, as well as others, have been in
    business for a longer period of time, have a greater number of
    products on the market and have greater financial and other
    resources than we do. If we directly compete with them for the
    same markets
    and/or
    products, their financial strength could prevent us from
    capturing a meaningful share of those markets.


 


    We actively compete in the generic pharmaceutical business.
    Revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic
    pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on
    certain regulatory and competitive factors. As patents and
    regulatory exclusivity for brand name products expire or are
    successfully challenged, the first off-patent manufacturer to
    receive regulatory approval for generic equivalents of such
    products is generally able to achieve significant market
    penetration. As competing off-patent manufacturers receive
    regulatory approvals on similar products, market share, revenues
    and gross profit typically decline, in some cases dramatically.
    Accordingly, the level of market share, revenues and gross
    profit attributable to a particular generic product normally is
    related to the number of competitors in that product’s
    market and the timing of that product’s regulatory approval
    and launch, in relation to competing approvals and launches.
    Consequently, we must continue to develop and introduce new
    products in a timely and cost-effective manner to maintain our
    revenues and gross profit. In addition to competition from other
    generic drug manufacturers, we face competition from brand name
    companies in the generic market. Many of these companies seek to
    participate in sales of generic products by, among other things,
    collaborating with other generic pharmaceutical companies or by
    marketing their own generic equivalent to their brand products
    as Authorized Generics. Our major competitors in generic
    products include Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd., Barr
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Barr”), Mylan Inc.,
    Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals Generics (a subsidiary of Covidien
    AG) and Sandoz. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors —
    Risks Related to Our Business — The pharmaceutical
    industry is highly competitive.” in this Annual Report.


 


    In our Distribution business, we compete with a number of large
    wholesalers and other distributors of pharmaceuticals, including
    McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal
    Health, Inc., which distribute both brand and generic
    pharmaceutical products to their customers. These same companies
    are significant customers of our pharmaceuticals business. As
    generic products generally have higher gross margins than brand
    products for a pharmaceutical distribution business, each of the
    large wholesalers, on an increasing basis, are offering pricing
    incentives on brand products if the customers purchase a large
    portion of their generic pharmaceutical products from the
    primary wholesaler. As we do not broadly offer brand products to
    our customers, we are at times competitively disadvantaged and
    must compete with these wholesalers based upon our very
    competitive pricing for generic products, greater service levels
    and our well-established telemarketing relationships with our
    customers, supplemented by our electronic ordering capabilities.
    Additionally, generic manufacturers are increasingly marketing
    their products directly to smaller chains and thus increasingly
    bypassing wholesalers and distributors. Increased competition in
    the generic industry as a whole may result in increased price
    erosion in the pursuit of market share.


 



    Manufacturing,
    Suppliers and Materials


 


    During 2007, we manufactured many of our own finished products
    at our plants in Corona, California; Davie, Florida; Carmel, New
    York; Copiague, New York and Salt Lake City, Utah. As part of an
    ongoing effort to optimize our manufacturing operations, we
    implemented several cost reduction initiatives in 2007,



    
    9



Table of Contents




    which included the divestiture of our Phoenix, Arizona
    injectable product manufacturing facility and the closure of our
    Puerto Rico manufacturing facility. In August 2007 we received
    our first FDA approval to manufacture product at our solid
    dosage manufacturing facility in Goa, India.


 


    We have development and manufacturing capabilities for raw
    material, active pharmaceutical ingredients (“API”)
    and intermediate ingredients to support our internal product
    development efforts in our Goa, Ambernath and Dombivli, India
    and Changzhou, China facilities. Our Ambernath and Dombivli,
    India facilities also develop and manufacture API for third
    parties. We also have an equity investment in Scinopharm Taiwan,
    Ltd., a company that specializes in the development and
    manufacture of API.


 


    Our manufacturing operations are subject to extensive regulatory
    oversight and could be interrupted at any time. Our Corona,
    California facility is currently subject to a consent decree of
    permanent injunction. In September 2005, the FDA placed our
    Davie, Florida manufacturing facility in OAI status relating to
    the FDA’s May 2005 current Good Manufacturing Practices
    (“cGMP”) inspection of the facility and the related
    issuance of a Form 483 List of Inspectional Observations.
    The effect of the OAI designation is that until the FDA is
    satisfied with (i) the Company’s responses to the
    inspectional observations and (ii) the results of their
    inspections of the Davie, Florida facility, FDA approval of
    product candidates to be manufactured at that facility will be
    withheld. During the OAI status, ANDAs continue to be submitted
    from the Davie, Florida facility and the FDA continues to review
    new product applications. The OAI status does not affect
    Watson’s other locations. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to Our Business —
    Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to
    have, a significant impact on our business, especially our
    product development, manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities.” Also refer to Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 13 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    For certain of our products, we contract with third parties for
    the manufacture of products, some of which are currently
    available only from sole or limited suppliers. These third-party
    manufactured products include products that have historically
    accounted for a significant portion of our revenues, such as
    Ferrlecit®,
    bupropion hydrochloride sustained-release tablets and a number
    of our oral contraceptive products. Third-party manufactured
    products accounted for approximately 57%, 58% and 51% of our
    product net revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and
    56%, 64% and 58% of our gross profit in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.


 


    We are dependent on third parties for the supply of the raw
    materials necessary to develop and manufacture our products,
    including the API and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients used
    in our products. We are required to identify the supplier(s) of
    all the raw materials for our products in the drug applications
    that we file with the FDA. If raw materials for a particular
    product become unavailable from an approved supplier specified
    in a drug application, we would be required to qualify a
    substitute supplier with the FDA, which would likely interrupt
    manufacturing of the affected product. To the extent
    practicable, we attempt to identify more than one supplier in
    each drug application. However, some raw materials are available
    only from a single source and, in some of our drug applications,
    only one supplier of raw materials has been identified, even in
    instances where multiple sources exist.


 


    In addition, we obtain a significant portion of our raw
    materials from foreign suppliers. Arrangements with
    international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other
    things, FDA regulation, customs clearance, various import
    duties, foreign currency risk and other government clearances.
    Acts of governments outside the U.S. may affect the price
    or availability of raw materials needed for the development or
    manufacture of our products. In addition, any changes in patent
    laws in jurisdictions outside the U.S. may make it
    increasingly difficult to obtain raw materials for R&D
    prior to the expiration of the applicable U.S. or foreign
    patents. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks
    Related to Our Business — If we are unable to obtain
    sufficient supplies from key suppliers that in some cases may be
    the only source of finished products or raw materials, our
    ability to deliver our products to the market may be
    impeded.” in this Annual Report.


 



    Patents
    and Proprietary Rights


 


    We believe patent protection of our proprietary products is
    important to our brand business. Our success with our brand
    products will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain, and
    successfully defend if challenged, patent or other proprietary
    protection for such products. We currently have a number of
    U.S. and foreign



    
    10



Table of Contents




    patents issued or pending. However, the issuance of a patent is
    not conclusive as to its validity or as to the enforceable scope
    of the claims of the patent. Accordingly, our patents may not
    prevent other companies from developing similar or functionally
    equivalent products or from successfully challenging the
    validity of our patents. If our patent applications are not
    approved or, even if approved, if such patents are circumvented
    or not upheld in a court of law, our ability to competitively
    market our patented products and technologies may be
    significantly reduced. Also, such patents may or may not provide
    competitive advantages for their respective products or they may
    be challenged or circumvented by competitors, in which case our
    ability to commercially market these products may be diminished.
    From time to time, we may need to obtain licenses to patents and
    other proprietary rights held by third parties to develop,
    manufacture and market our products. If we are unable to timely
    obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our
    ability to commercially market such products may be inhibited or
    prevented.


 


    We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we
    seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements
    with our partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is
    possible that these agreements will be breached or will not be
    enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have
    adequate remedies for any such breach. It is also possible that
    our trade secrets will otherwise become known or independently
    developed by competitors.


 


    We may find it necessary to initiate litigation to enforce our
    patent rights, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to
    determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of
    others. Litigation concerning patents, trademarks, copyrights
    and proprietary technologies can often be protracted and
    expensive and, as with litigation generally, the outcome is
    inherently uncertain.


 


    Pharmaceutical companies with brand products are increasingly
    suing companies that produce off-patent forms of their brand
    name products for alleged patent infringement or other
    violations of intellectual property rights which may delay or
    prevent the entry of such a generic product into the market. For
    instance, when we file an ANDA seeking approval of a generic
    equivalent to a brand drug, we may certify under the Drug Price
    Competition and Patent Restoration Act of 1984 (the
    “Hatch-Waxman Act”) to the FDA that we do not intend
    to market our generic drug until any patent listed by the FDA as
    covering the brand drug has expired, in which case, the ANDA
    will not be approved by the FDA until no earlier than the
    expiration of such patent(s). On the other hand, we could
    certify that we believe the patent or patents listed as covering
    the brand drug are invalid
    and/or will
    not be infringed by the manufacture, sale or use of our generic
    form of the brand drug. In that case, we are required to notify
    the brand product holder or the patent holder that such patent
    is invalid or is not infringed. If the patent holder sues us for
    patent infringement within 45 days from receipt of the
    notice, the FDA is then prevented from approving our ANDA for
    30 months after receipt of the notice unless the lawsuit is
    resolved in our favor in less time or a shorter period is deemed
    appropriate by a court. In addition, increasingly aggressive
    tactics employed by brand companies to delay generic
    competition, including the use of Citizens Petitions and seeking
    changes to U.S. Pharmacopeia, have increased the risks and
    uncertainties regarding the timing of approval of generic
    products.


 


    Because a balanced and fair legislative and regulatory arena is
    critical to the pharmaceutical industry, we will continue to
    devote management time and financial resources on government
    activities. We currently maintain an office and staff a
    full-time government affairs function in Washington, D.C.
    that maintains responsibility for keeping abreast of state and
    federal legislative activities.


 


    Litigation alleging infringement of patents, copyrights or other
    intellectual property rights may be costly and time consuming.
    See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related
    to Our Business — Third parties may claim that we
    infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent us from
    manufacturing and selling some of our products.” in this
    Annual Report.


 



    Government
    Regulation and Regulatory Matters


 


    All pharmaceutical manufacturers, including Watson, are subject
    to extensive, complex and evolving regulation by the federal
    government, principally the FDA, and to a lesser extent, by the
    U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”),
    Occupational Safety and Health Administration and state
    government agencies, as well as by varying regulatory agencies
    in foreign countries where products or product candidates



    
    11



Table of Contents




    are being manufactured
    and/or
    marketed. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the
    Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and
    regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing,
    packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval,
    advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products.


 


    FDA approval is required before any dosage form of any new drug,
    including an off-patent equivalent of a previously approved
    drug, can be marketed. The process for obtaining governmental
    approval to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products is
    rigorous, time-consuming and costly, and the extent to which it
    may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments
    cannot be predicted. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other
    governmental approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and
    shipping new products. Consequently, there is always the risk
    the FDA or another applicable agency will not approve our new
    products, or the rate, timing and cost of such approvals will
    adversely affect our product introduction plans or results of
    operations. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors —
    Risks Related to Our Business — If we are unable to
    successfully develop or commercialize new products, our
    operating results will suffer.” and
    “— Extensive industry regulation has had, and
    will continue to have, a significant impact on our business,
    especially our product development, manufacturing and
    distribution capabilities.” in this Annual Report.


 


    All applications for FDA approval must contain information
    relating to product formulation, raw material suppliers,
    stability, manufacturing processes, packaging, labeling and
    quality control. There are generally two types of applications
    for FDA approval that would be applicable to our new products:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    NDA.  We file a NDA when we seek approval for
    drugs with active ingredients
    and/or with
    dosage strengths, dosage forms, delivery systems or
    pharmacokinetic profiles that have not been previously approved
    by the FDA. Generally, NDAs are filed for newly developed brand
    products or for a new dosage form of previously approved drugs.




 



     
        • 

    
    ANDA.  We file an ANDA when we seek approval
    for off-patent, or generic equivalents of a previously approved
    drug.





 


    The process required by the FDA before a previously unapproved
    pharmaceutical product may be marketed in the
    U.S. generally involves the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    preclinical laboratory and animal tests;




 



     
        • 

    
    submission of an investigational new drug application
    (“IND”), which must become effective before clinical
    trials may begin;




 



     
        • 

    
    adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish
    the safety and efficacy of the proposed product for its intended
    use;




 



     
        • 

    
    submission of a NDA containing the results of the preclinical
    and clinical trials establishing the safety and efficacy of the
    proposed product for its intended use; and




 



     
        • 

    
    FDA approval of a NDA.





 


    Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of the product,
    its chemistry, formulation and stability, as well as animal
    studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the
    product. For products that require NDA approvals, these
    preclinical studies and plans for initial human testing are
    submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become
    effective before we may begin human clinical trials. The IND
    automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by
    the FDA unless the FDA, during that
    30-day
    period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the
    trials as outlined in the IND. In such cases, the IND sponsor
    and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before
    clinical trials can begin. In addition, an independent
    Institutional Review Board must provide oversight to review and
    approve any clinical study at the medical center proposing to
    conduct the clinical trials.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    Human clinical trials are typically conducted in sequential
    phases:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Phase I.  During this phase, the drug is
    initially introduced into a relatively small number of healthy
    human subjects or patients and is tested for safety, dosage
    tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion.




 



     
        • 

    
    Phase II.  This phase involves studies in a
    limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects
    and safety risks, to determine the efficacy of the product for
    specific targeted diseases or conditions, and to determine
    dosage tolerance and optimal dosage.




 



     
        • 

    
    Phase III.  When Phase II evaluations
    demonstrate that a dosage range of the product is effective and
    has an acceptable safety profile, Phase III trials are
    undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and to
    further test for safety in an expanded patient population at
    geographically dispersed clinical study sites.




 



     
        • 

    
    Phase IV.  After a drug has been approved by
    the FDA, Phase IV studies may be conducted to explore
    additional patient populations, compare the drug to a
    competitor, or to further study the risks, benefits and optimal
    use of a drug. These studies may be a requirement as a condition
    of the initial approval.





 


    The results of product development, preclinical studies and
    clinical studies are then submitted to the FDA as part of a NDA,
    for approval of the marketing and commercial shipment of the new
    product. The NDA drug development and approval process currently
    averages approximately five to ten years.


 


    FDA approval of an ANDA is required before we may begin
    marketing an off-patent or generic equivalent of a drug that has
    been approved under a NDA, or a previously unapproved dosage
    form of a drug that has been approved under a NDA. The ANDA
    approval process generally differs from the NDA approval process
    in that it does not typically require new preclinical and
    clinical studies; instead, it relies on the clinical studies
    establishing safety and efficacy conducted for the previously
    approved NDA drug. The ANDA process, however, typically requires
    data to show that the ANDA drug is bioequivalent (i.e.,
    therapeutically equivalent) to the previously approved drug.
    “Bioequivalence” compares the bioavailability of one
    drug product with another and, when established, indicates
    whether the rate and extent of absorption of a generic drug in
    the body are substantially equivalent to the previously approved
    drug. “Bioavailability” establishes the rate and
    extent of absorption, as determined by the time dependent
    concentrations of a drug product in the bloodstream needed to
    produce a therapeutic effect. The ANDA drug development and
    approval process generally takes less time than the NDA drug
    development and approval process since the ANDA process does not
    require new clinical trials establishing the safety and efficacy
    of the drug product.


 


    Supplemental NDAs or ANDAs are required for, among other things,
    approval to transfer certain products from one manufacturing
    site to another and may be under review for a year or more. In
    addition, certain products may only be approved for transfer
    once new bioequivalency studies are conducted or other
    requirements are satisfied.


 


    To obtain FDA approval of both NDAs and ANDAs, our manufacturing
    procedures and operations must conform to FDA quality system and
    control requirements generally referred to as cGMP, as defined
    in Title 21 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations.
    These regulations encompass all aspects of the production
    process from receipt and qualification of components to
    distribution procedures for finished products. They are evolving
    standards; thus, we must continue to expend substantial time,
    money and effort in all production and quality control areas to
    maintain compliance. The evolving and complex nature of
    regulatory requirements, the broad authority and discretion of
    the FDA, and the generally high level of regulatory oversight
    results in the continuing possibility that we may be adversely
    affected by regulatory actions despite our efforts to maintain
    compliance with regulatory requirements.


 


    We are subject to the periodic inspection of our facilities,
    procedures and operations
    and/or the
    testing of our products by the FDA, the DEA and other
    authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to assess
    compliance with applicable regulations. In addition, in
    connection with its review of our applications for new products,
    the FDA conducts pre-approval and post-approval reviews and
    plant inspections to determine whether our systems and processes
    comply with cGMP and other FDA regulations. Among other things,
    the FDA may



    
    13



Table of Contents




    withhold approval of NDAs, ANDAs or other product applications
    of a facility if deficiencies are found at that facility.
    Vendors that supply finished products or components to us that
    we use to manufacture, package and label products are subject to
    similar regulation and periodic inspections.


 


    Following such inspections, the FDA may issue notices on
    Form 483 and Warning Letters that could cause us to modify
    certain activities identified during the inspection. A
    Form 483 notice is generally issued at the conclusion of an
    FDA inspection and lists conditions the FDA investigators
    believe may violate cGMP or other FDA regulations. FDA
    guidelines specify that a Warning Letter be issued only for
    violations of “regulatory significance” for which the
    failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be
    expected to result in an enforcement action.


 


    Our Corona, California facility is currently subject to a
    consent decree of permanent injunction and our Davie, Florida
    facility is currently under OAI status. See also
    “Manufacturing, Suppliers and Materials” discussion
    above, “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks
    Related to Our Business — Extensive industry
    regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant
    impact on our business, especially our product development,
    manufacturing and distribution capabilities.” and Legal
    Matters in “NOTE 13 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations
    can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures,
    recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of
    production
    and/or
    distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of NDAs, ANDAs
    or other product application enforcement actions, injunctions
    and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA
    also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug
    approvals. Although we have internal compliance programs, if
    these programs do not meet regulatory agency standards or if our
    compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could
    have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our
    Business — Extensive industry regulation has had, and
    will continue to have, a significant impact on our business,
    especially our product development, manufacturing and
    distribution capabilities.” in this Annual Report.


 


    The Generic Drug Enforcement Act of 1992 established penalties
    for wrongdoing in connection with the development or submission
    of an ANDA. Under this Act, the FDA has the authority to
    permanently or temporarily bar companies or individuals from
    submitting or assisting in the submission of an ANDA, and to
    temporarily deny approval and suspend applications to market
    generic drugs. The FDA may also suspend the distribution of all
    drugs approved or developed in connection with certain wrongful
    conduct
    and/or
    withdraw approval of an ANDA and seek civil penalties. The FDA
    can also significantly delay the approval of any pending NDA,
    ANDA or other regulatory submissions under the Fraud, Untrue
    Statements of Material Facts, Bribery and Illegal Gratuities
    Policy Act.


 


    Government reimbursement programs include Medicare, Medicaid,
    TriCare, and State Pharmacy Assistance Programs established
    according to statute, government regulations and policy. Federal
    law requires that all pharmaceutical manufacturers, as a
    condition of having their products receive federal reimbursement
    under Medicaid, must pay rebates to state Medicaid programs on
    units of their pharmaceuticals that are dispensed to Medicaid
    beneficiaries. The required
    per-unit
    rebate is currently 11% of the average manufacturer price for
    products marketed under ANDAs. For products marketed under NDAs,
    manufacturers are required to rebate the greater of 15.1% of the
    average manufacturer price, or the difference between the
    average manufacturer price and the lowest net sales price to a
    non-government customer during a specified period. In some
    states, supplemental rebates are additionally required as a
    condition of including the manufacturer’s drug on the
    state’s Preferred Drug List.


 


    The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization
    Act of 2003 (the “MMA”) requires that manufacturers
    report data to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
    (“CMS”) on pricing of drugs and biologicals reimbursed
    under Medicare Part B. These are generally drugs, such as
    injectable products, that are administered “incident
    to” a physician service, and in general are not
    self-administered. Effective January 1, 2005, average
    selling price (“ASP”) became the basis for
    reimbursement to physicians and suppliers for drugs and
    biologicals covered under Medicare Part B, replacing the
    average wholesale price (“AWP”) provided and published
    by pricing services. In general, we must comply with all
    reporting requirements for any drug or biological that is
    separately reimbursable under Medicare. Watson’s
    Ferrlecit®,
    INFeD®
    and
    Trelstar®
    products



    
    14



Table of Contents




    are reimbursed under Medicare Part B and, as a result, we
    provide ASP data on these products to CMS on a quarterly basis.


 


    Under Part D of the MMA, some Medicare beneficiaries are
    eligible to obtain subsidized prescription drug coverage from
    private sector providers. With the January 2006 implementation
    of the Part D drug benefit, usage of pharmaceuticals has
    increased as a result of the expanded access to medicines
    afforded by the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. However,
    such sales increases have been offset by increased pricing
    pressures due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private
    sector providers who negotiate on behalf of Medicare
    beneficiaries. While it is still difficult to predict the future
    impact the Medicare prescription drug coverage benefit will have
    on pharmaceutical companies, it is anticipated that further
    pricing pressures will continue into 2008 and beyond.


 


    The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) mandated a
    number of changes in the Medicaid Program. On July 6, 2007,
    the CMS published the Medicaid Program: Prescription Drugs Final
    Rule (“Rule”) to implement certain sections of the
    DRA. The Rule provides new requirements for calculating Average
    Manufacturers Price (“AMP”) to be used for reimbursing
    pharmacies that dispense generic drugs under the Medicaid
    Program, and a schedule to publish monthly and quarterly AMP
    data on a public web site, beginning in December 2007. The new
    definition of AMP could significantly reduce pharmacy
    reimbursement for Medicaid covered drugs, which could adversely
    impact generic drug manufacturers for a variety of reasons,
    particularly if pharmacies demand lower prices. The publication
    of AMP data could disrupt the marketplace for generic drugs
    because AMP, as calculated under the Rule, does not necessarily
    represent the actual retail cost of generic drug products. On
    December 14, 2007, the United States District Court for the
    District of Columbia issued a preliminary injunction that bars
    CMS from implementing the Rule, including the AMP data
    publication provisions and the new requirements for calculating
    AMP. However, the duration of the injunction is uncertain, and
    the enforceability of the Rule is still under review by the
    District Court. If the District or Appellate Court rules in
    favor of CMS, or if the injunction is lifted and CMS enforces
    the Rule as currently written, it could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations, financial condition and
    cash flows.


 


    There has been enhanced political attention, governmental
    scrutiny and litigation at the federal and state levels of the
    prices paid or reimbursed for pharmaceutical products under
    Medicaid, Medicare and other government programs. See
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related to
    Our Business — Investigations of the calculation of
    average wholesale prices may adversely affect our
    business.” and Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 13 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    In order to assist us in commercializing products, we have
    obtained from government authorities and private health insurers
    and other organizations, such as Health Maintenance
    Organizations (“HMOs”) and Managed Care Organizations
    (“MCOs”), authorization to receive reimbursement at
    varying levels for the cost of certain products and related
    treatments. Third party payers increasingly challenge pricing of
    pharmaceutical products. The trend toward managed healthcare in
    the U.S., the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and
    legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government
    insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of
    pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a
    reduction in product demand. Such cost containment measures and
    healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell our products
    and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results
    of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Due to the
    uncertainty surrounding reimbursement of newly approved
    pharmaceutical products, reimbursement may not be available for
    some of our products. Additionally, any reimbursement granted
    may not be maintained or limits on reimbursement available from
    third-party payers may reduce the demand for, or negatively
    affect the price of, those products.


 


    Federal, state and local laws of general applicability, such as
    laws regulating working conditions, also govern us. In addition,
    we are subject, as are all manufacturers generally, to numerous
    and increasingly stringent federal, state and local
    environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other
    things, the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
    treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous substances and the
    discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Environmental
    permits and controls are required for some of our operations,
    and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and
    revocation by the issuing authorities.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    Our environmental capital expenditures and costs for
    environmental compliance may increase in the future as a result
    of changes in environmental laws and regulations or increased
    manufacturing activities at any of our facilities. We could be
    adversely affected by any failure to comply with environmental
    laws, including the costs of undertaking a
    clean-up at
    a site to which our wastes were transported.


 


    As part of the MMA, companies are required to file with the
    U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and the
    Department of Justice certain types of agreements entered into
    between brand and generic pharmaceutical companies related to
    the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic versions of brand
    drugs. This requirement could affect the manner in which generic
    drug manufacturers resolve intellectual property litigation and
    other disputes with brand pharmaceutical companies, and could
    result generally in an increase in private-party litigation
    against pharmaceutical companies. The impact of this
    requirement, and the potential private-party lawsuits associated
    with arrangements between brand name and generic drug
    manufacturers, is uncertain and could adversely affect our
    business. For example, we have received requests for
    information, in the form of civil investigative demands or
    subpoenas, from the FTC, and are subject to ongoing FTC
    investigations, concerning our settlement with Solvay and
    Laboratories Besins Isovesco related to our ANDA for a generic
    version of
    Androgel®,
    our settlement with Cephalon related to our ANDA for a generic
    version of
    Provigil®,
    and our agreement with Sandoz to relinquish our Hatch-Waxman Act
    marketing exclusivity on our ANDA for a 50 mg generic
    version of Toprol
    XL®.
    If the FTC or private parties were to initiate legal actions
    challenging these transactions, it could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to Our
    Business— Federal regulation of arrangements between
    manufacturers of brand and generic products could adversely
    affect our business.” and Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 13 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 


    Continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and
    efficacy of pharmaceuticals and other health care products are
    being conducted by industry, government agencies and others.
    Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods
    and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety
    and efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases
    have resulted, and may in the future result, in the
    discontinuance of their marketing.


 


    Our distribution operations and our customers are subject to
    various regulatory requirements, including requirements from the
    DEA, FDA, and State Boards of Pharmacy and City and County
    Health regulators, among others. These include licensing,
    registration, recordkeeping, security and reporting
    requirements. In particular, several states and the federal
    government have begun to enforce anti-counterfeit drug pedigree
    laws which require the tracking of all transactions involving
    prescription drugs beginning with the manufacturer, through the
    supply chain, and down to the pharmacy or other health care
    provider dispensing or administering prescription drug products.
    For example, effective July 1, 2006, the Florida Department
    of Health began enforcement of the drug pedigree requirements
    for distribution of prescription drugs in the State of Florida.
    Pursuant to Florida law and regulations, wholesalers and
    distributors, including our subsidiary, Anda Pharmaceuticals,
    are required to maintain records documenting the chain of
    custody of prescription drug products they distribute beginning
    with the purchase of such products from the manufacturer. These
    entities are required to provide documentation of the prior
    transaction(s) to their customers in Florida, including
    pharmacies and other health care entities. Several other states
    have proposed or enacted legislation to implement similar or
    more stringent drug pedigree requirements. In addition, federal
    law requires that a “non-authorized distributor of
    record” must provide a drug pedigree documenting the prior
    purchase of a prescription drug from the manufacturer or from an
    “authorized distributor of record.” In cases where the
    wholesaler or distributor selling the drug product is not deemed
    an “authorized distributor of record” it would need to
    maintain such records. FDA had announced its intent to impose
    additional drug pedigree requirements (e.g., tracking of lot
    numbers and documentation of all transactions) through
    implementation of drug pedigree regulations which were to have
    taken effect on December 1, 2006. However, a federal
    appeals court has issued a preliminary injunction to several
    wholesale distributors granting an indefinite stay of these
    regulations pending a challenge to the regulations by these
    wholesale distributors.


 


    In connection with the acquisition of Andrx, both Watson and
    Andrx agreed to divest certain overlapping products and abide by
    the terms of the Decision and Order (the “Order”)
    entered by the FTC in December



    
    16



Table of Contents




    2006, which includes certain reporting requirements and
    technical assistance. Failure to abide by the terms of the
    Order, which expires in December 2016, could result in, among
    other things, civil penalties.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign
    environmental laws and regulations. We believe that our
    operations comply in all material respects with applicable
    environmental laws and regulations in each country where we have
    a business presence. Although we continue to make capital
    expenditures for environmental protection, we do not anticipate
    any significant expenditures in order to comply with such laws
    and regulations that would have a material impact on our
    earnings or competitive position. We are not aware of any
    pending litigation or significant financial obligations arising
    from current or past environmental practices that are likely to
    have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We
    cannot assure you, however, that environmental problems relating
    to facilities owned or operated by us will not develop in the
    future, and we cannot predict whether any such problems, if they
    were to develop, could require significant expenditures on our
    part. In addition, we are unable to predict what legislation or
    regulations may be adopted or enacted in the future with respect
    to environmental protection and waste disposal.


 



    Seasonality


 


    There are no significant seasonal aspects to our business.


 



    Backlog


 


    Due to the relatively short lead-time required to fill orders
    for our products, backlog of orders is not material to our
    business.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately
    5,640 employees. Of our employees, approximately 640 are
    engaged in R&D, 2,180 in manufacturing, 1,100 in quality
    assurance and quality control, 1,100 in sales, marketing and
    distribution, and 620 in administration. We believe our
    relations with our employees are good.



    
    17



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 



    CAUTIONARY
    NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS


 


    Any statements made in this report that are not statements of
    historical fact or refer to estimated or anticipated future
    events are forward-looking statements. We have based our
    forward-looking statements on management’s beliefs and
    assumptions based on information available to our management at
    the time these statements are made. Such forward-looking
    statements reflect our current perspective of our business,
    future performance, existing trends and information as of the
    date of this filing. These include, but are not limited to, our
    beliefs about future revenue and expense levels and growth
    rates, prospects related to our strategic initiatives and
    business strategies, including the integration of, and synergies
    associated with, our acquisition of Andrx, express or implied
    assumptions about government regulatory action or inaction,
    anticipated product approvals and launches, (including the
    removal of Andrx’s OAI status at our Davie Florida facility
    and the associated witholding of FDA approval of product
    candidates manufactured at that facility), and if and when, the
    hold of Andrx’s approvals will be lifted, business
    initiatives and product development activities, assessments
    related to clinical trial results, product performance and
    competitive environment, and anticipated financial performance.
    Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, words such as
    “may,” “will,” “expect,”
    “believe,” “anticipate,” “intend,”
    “could,” “would,” “estimate,”
    “continue,” or “pursue,” or the negative
    or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, are
    intended to identify forward-looking statements. The statements
    are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain
    risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to
    predict. We caution the reader that these statements are based
    on certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which
    are beyond our control. In addition, certain important factors
    may affect our actual operating results and could cause such
    results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by
    forward-looking statements. We believe the risks and
    uncertainties discussed under the Section entitled “Risks
    Related to Our Business,” and other risks and uncertainties
    detailed herein and from time to time in our SEC filings, may
    cause our actual results to vary materially than those
    anticipated in any forward-looking statement.


 


    We disclaim any obligation to publicly update any
    forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
    information, future events or otherwise, except as required by
    law. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 


    We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a
    number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The
    following discussion highlights some of these risks and others
    are discussed elsewhere in this annual report. These and other
    risks could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Risks
    Associated With Investing In the Business of Watson


 



    Our
    operating results and financial condition may
    fluctuate.


 


    Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from
    quarter to quarter and year to year for a number of reasons. The
    following events or occurrences, among others, could cause
    fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    development of new competitive products or generics by others;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing and receipt of FDA approvals or lack of approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties or delays in resolving FDA-observed deficiencies at
    our manufacturing facilities, which could delay our ability to
    obtain approvals of pending FDA product applications;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the amount we spend to develop, acquire or license
    new products, technologies or businesses;






    
    18



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in the amount we spend to promote our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    delays between our expenditures to acquire new products,
    technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from
    those acquired products, technologies or businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in treatment practices of physicians that currently
    prescribe our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in reimbursement policies of health plans and other
    similar health insurers, including changes that affect newly
    developed or newly acquired products;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in laws and regulations concerning reimbursement of
    pharmaceutical products, including Medicare, Medicaid, and
    similar State programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    manufacturing and supply interruptions, including failure to
    comply with manufacturing specifications;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effect of economic changes in hurricane and other natural
    disaster-affected areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impact on our employees, customers, patients, manufacturers,
    suppliers, vendors, and other companies we do business with and
    the resulting impact on the results of operations associated
    with the possible mutation of the avian form of influenza from
    birds or other animal species to humans, current human
    morbidity, and mortality levels persist following such potential
    mutation;




 



     
        • 

    
    the mix of products that we sell during any time period;




 



     
        • 

    
    lower than expected demand for our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    our responses to price competition;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to successfully integrate and commercialize the
    products, technologies and businesses we acquire or license, as
    applicable;




 



     
        • 

    
    expenditures as a result of legal actions;




 



     
        • 

    
    market acceptance of our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impairment and write-down of goodwill or other intangible
    assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    implementation of new or revised accounting or tax rules or
    policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    disposition of primary products, technologies and other rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    termination or expiration of, or the outcome of disputes
    relating to, trademarks, patents, license agreements and other
    rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in insurance rates for existing products and the cost
    of insurance for new products;




 



     
        • 

    
    general economic and industry conditions, including changes in
    interest rates affecting returns on cash balances and
    investments that affect customer demand;




 



     
        • 

    
    our level of R&D activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    new accounting standards
    and/or
    changes to existing accounting standards that would have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    position and cash flows;




 



     
        • 

    
    costs and outcomes of any tax audits or any litigation involving
    intellectual property, customers or other issues; and




 



     
        • 

    
    timing of revenue recognition related to licensing agreements
    and/or
    strategic collaborations.





 


    As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our
    results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and these
    comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future
    performance. The



    
    19



Table of Contents




    above factors may cause our operating results to fluctuate and
    adversely affect our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    If we
    are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new
    products, our operating results will suffer.


 


    Our future results of operations will depend to a significant
    extent upon our ability to successfully commercialize new brand
    and generic products in a timely manner. There are numerous
    difficulties in developing and commercializing new products,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    developing, testing and manufacturing products in compliance
    with regulatory standards in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    receiving requisite regulatory approvals for such products in a
    timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability, on commercially reasonable terms, of raw
    materials, including API and other key ingredients;




 



     
        • 

    
    developing and commercializing a new product is time consuming,
    costly and subject to numerous factors, including legal actions
    brought by our competitors, that may delay or prevent the
    development and commercialization of new products;




 



     
        • 

    
    experiencing delays or unanticipated costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    commercializing generic products may be substantially delayed by
    the listing with the FDA of patents that have the effect of
    potentially delaying approval of the off-patent product by up to
    30 months.





 


    As a result of these and other difficulties, products currently
    in development by Watson may or may not receive timely
    regulatory approvals, or approvals at all, necessary for
    marketing by Watson or other third-party partners. This risk
    particularly exists with respect to the development of
    proprietary products because of the uncertainties, higher costs
    and lengthy time frames associated with research and development
    of such products and the inherent unproven market acceptance of
    such products. If any of our products, when acquired or
    developed and approved, cannot be successfully or timely
    commercialized, our operating results could be adversely
    affected. We cannot guarantee that any investment we make in
    developing products will be recouped, even if we are successful
    in commercializing those products. Furthermore, until the FDA
    removes the OAI designation, FDA approval of product candidates
    to be manufactured at our Davie, Florida facility will be
    withheld.


 



    Our
    brand pharmaceutical expenditures may not result in commercially
    successful products.


 


    Developing and commercializing brand pharmaceutical products is
    generally more costly than generic products. In the future, we
    anticipate continuing our product development expenditures for
    our brand business segment. For example in February 2008, the
    FDA accepted for filing an NDA for silodosin and its review is
    ongoing. We plan to submit an NDA in 2008 for our topical
    oxybutynin gel product. Pending successful development
    activities, our partner, Debiopharm, S.A., plans to submit an
    NDA for a six-month formulation of
    Trelstar®.
    We cannot be sure these or other business expenditures will
    result in the successful discovery, development or launch of
    brand products that will prove to be commercially successful or
    will improve the long-term profitability of our business. If
    such business expenditures do not result in successful
    discovery, development or launch of commercially successful
    brand products it would adversely affect our results of
    operations and financial condition.


 



    Loss
    of revenues from
    Ferrlecit®,
    a significant product, could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.


 


    In 2007,
    Ferrlecit®
    accounted for approximately 5% of our net revenues and 12% of
    our gross profit. During 2004 we lost regulatory exclusivity on
    our
    Ferrlecit®
    product and, as a result generic applicants became eligible to
    submit ANDAs for
    Ferrlecit®.
    In February 2004, we submitted a Citizen Petition to the FDA
    requesting that the FDA not approve any ANDA for a generic
    version of
    Ferrlecit®
    until certain manufacturing, physiochemical and safety and
    efficacy criteria are satisfied. During the third quarter of
    2004,



    
    20



Table of Contents




    we submitted a second Citizen Petition to the FDA requesting
    that the FDA refuse to accept for substantive review any ANDA
    referencing
    Ferrlecit®
    until the FDA establishes guidelines for determining whether the
    generic product is the same complex as
    Ferrlecit®.
    In October 2006, we submitted a supplement to our Citizen
    Petition, reiterating our request for the FDA to establish
    guidelines for determining what data are needed to prove that
    generic formulations of
    Ferrlecit®
    contain the same active complex as
    Ferrlecit®.
    We cannot predict whether the FDA will grant or deny our Citizen
    Petitions or when it may take such action.


 


    In addition to risks associated with generic competition, we are
    aware of competitors that are developing proprietary products
    that could compete with
    Ferrlecit®.
    These companies may succeed in developing technologies and
    products that are considered safer or more efficacious, or are
    less costly than
    Ferrlecit®.


 


    If a generic version of
    Ferrlecit®
    or other competitive product is approved by the FDA and enters
    the market, our net revenues and profits could significantly
    decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 


    A large percentage of our
    Ferrlecit®
    sales are made to dialysis centers. In recent years, there has
    been significant consolidation of the dialysis business, marked
    by mergers and acquisitions among dialysis centers. As a result,
    a small number of customers control a significant share of the
    injectable iron market in which
    Ferrlecit®
    competes. During 2007, our largest customer for
    Ferrlecit®
    accounted for approximately 38% of our
    Ferrlecit®
    sales. Continued consolidation may adversely impact pricing and
    create other competitive pressures on suppliers of injectable
    iron. Additionally, the loss of any significant
    Ferrlecit®
    customer could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 


    Our distribution, trademark, manufacturing and supply agreements
    for
    Ferrlecit®
    expire at the end of 2009. There can be no assurance that we
    will be able to negotiate extensions of these agreements on
    commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to
    negotiate extensions of these agreements on commercially
    reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.


 



    As a
    part of our business strategy, we plan to consider and, as
    appropriate, make acquisitions of technologies, products and
    businesses, which may result in difficulties in integrating the
    technologies, products and businesses that we acquire and/or
    significant charges to earnings that may adversely affect our
    stock price and financial condition.


 


    We regularly review potential acquisitions of technologies,
    products and businesses complementary to our business.
    Acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in
    difficulties in integrating operations, personnel, technologies
    and products. If we are not able to successfully integrate our
    acquisitions, we may not obtain the advantages and synergies
    that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows, our ability to develop and
    introduce new products and the market price of our stock. In
    addition, in connection with acquisitions, we could experience
    disruption in our business, technology and information systems,
    customer or employee base, including diversion of
    management’s attention from our continuing operations.
    There is also a risk that key employees of companies that we
    acquire or key employees necessary to successfully commercialize
    technologies and products that we acquire may seek employment
    elsewhere, including with our competitors. Furthermore, there
    may be overlap between the products or customers of Watson and
    the companies that we acquire that may create conflicts in
    relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated
    businesses. For example, in our Distribution business, our main
    competitors are McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen
    Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., which are significant
    customers of our generic and brand operations and who
    collectively accounted for approximately 28% of our annual net
    revenues in 2007. The impact of our acquisition of Andrx may
    result in the disruption of our business, which could harm
    relationships with our current customers, employees or
    suppliers, and could adversely affect our expenses, pricing,
    third-party relationships and revenues.


 


    In addition, as a result of acquiring businesses or products, or
    entering into other significant transactions, we have
    experienced, and will likely continue to experience, significant
    charges to earnings for merger and related expenses that may
    include transaction costs, closure costs or acquired in-process
    research and



    
    21



Table of Contents




    development charges. These costs may include substantial fees
    for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants and financial
    printing costs and severance and other closure costs associated
    with the elimination of duplicate or discontinued products,
    operations and facilities. Charges that we may incur in
    connection with acquisitions could adversely affect our results
    of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods.


 



    If we
    are unsuccessful in our joint ventures and other collaborations,
    our operating results could suffer.


 


    We have made substantial investments in joint ventures and other
    collaborations and may use these and other methods to develop or
    commercialize products in the future. These arrangements
    typically involve other pharmaceutical companies as partners
    that may be competitors of ours in certain markets. In many
    instances, we will not control these joint ventures or
    collaborations or the commercial exploitation of the licensed
    products, and cannot assure you that these ventures will be
    profitable. Although restrictions contained in certain of these
    programs have not had a material adverse impact on the marketing
    of our own products to date, any such marketing restrictions
    could affect future revenues and have a material adverse effect
    on our operations. Our results of operations may suffer if
    existing joint venture or collaboration partners withdraw, or if
    these products are not timely developed, approved or
    successfully commercialized.


 



    If we
    are unable to adequately protect our technology or enforce our
    patents, our business could suffer.


 


    Our success with the brand products that we develop will depend,
    in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for these
    products. We currently have a number of U.S. and foreign
    patents issued and pending. However, issuance of a patent is not
    conclusive evidence of its validity or enforceability. We cannot
    be sure that we will receive patents for any of our pending
    patent applications or any patent applications we may file in
    the future. If our current and future patent applications are
    not approved or, if approved, if such patents are not upheld in
    a court of law if challenged, it may reduce our ability to
    competitively exploit our patented products. Also, such patents
    may or may not provide competitive advantages for their
    respective products or they may be challenged or circumvented by
    our competitors, in which case our ability to commercially
    market these products may be diminished.


 


    We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we
    seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements
    with our partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is
    possible that these agreements will be breached or that they
    will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not
    have adequate remedies for any such breach. It is also possible
    that our trade secrets will become known or independently
    developed by our competitors.


 


    If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade
    secrets or propriety know-how, or enforce our patents, our
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could
    suffer.


 



    If
    pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of
    generics through their legislative, regulatory and other
    efforts, our sales of generic products may suffer.


 


    Many pharmaceutical companies increasingly have used state and
    federal legislative and regulatory means to delay generic
    competition. These efforts have included:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    pursuing new patents for existing products which may be granted
    just before the expiration of one patent, which could extend
    patent protection for additional years or otherwise delay the
    launch of generics;




 



     
        • 

    
    selling the brand product as an authorized generic, either by
    the brand company directly, through an affiliate or by a
    marketing partner;




 



     
        • 

    
    using the Citizen Petition process to request amendments to FDA
    standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    seeking changes to U.S. Pharmacopeia, an organization which
    publishes industry recognized compendia of drug standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    attaching patent extension amendments to non-related federal
    legislation;






    
    22



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    engaging in
    state-by-state
    initiatives to enact legislation that restricts the substitution
    of some generic drugs, which could have an impact on products
    that we are developing; and




 



     
        • 

    
    seeking patents on methods of manufacturing certain active
    pharmaceutical ingredients.





 


    If pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use
    of generic products through these or other means, our sales of
    generic products may decline. If we experience a material
    decline in generic product sales, our results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows will suffer.


 



    If
    competitors are successful in limiting competition for certain
    generic products through their legislative, regulatory and
    litigation efforts, our sales of certain generic products may
    suffer.


 


    Certain of our competitors have recently challenged our ability
    to distribute authorized generics during the competitors’
    180-day
    period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act. Under the
    challenged arrangements, we have obtained rights to market and
    distribute under a brand manufacturer’s NDA a generic
    alternative of the brand product. Some of our competitors have
    challenged the propriety of these arrangements by filing Citizen
    Petitions with the FDA, initiating lawsuits alleging violation
    of the antitrust and consumer protection laws, and seeking
    legislative intervention. The FDA and courts that have
    considered the subject to date have ruled that there is no
    prohibition in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act against
    distributing authorized generic versions of a brand drug.
    However, on January 30, 2007, legislation was introduced in
    the U.S. Senate, and on February 5, 2007, similar
    legislation was introduced in the U.S. House of
    Representatives, that would prohibit the marketing of authorized
    generics during the
    180-day
    period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act. Further,
    the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 added provisions to the
    Medicaid Rebate Program that, effective January 1, 2007,
    may have the effect of increasing an NDA holder’s Medicaid
    Rebate liability if it permits another manufacturer to market an
    authorized generic version of its brand product. This may affect
    the willingness of brand manufacturers to continue arrangements,
    or enter into future arrangements, permitting us to market
    authorized generic versions of their brand products. If so, or
    if distribution of authorized generic versions of brand products
    is otherwise restricted or found unlawful, it could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows.


 



    From
    time to time we may need to rely on licenses to proprietary
    technologies, which may be difficult or expensive to
    obtain.


 


    We may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary
    rights held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market
    products. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on
    commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially
    market our products may be inhibited or prevented, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Third
    parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and
    may prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our
    products.


 


    The manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the
    subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of
    substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These
    lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or
    proprietary rights of third parties. We may have to defend
    against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights
    of third parties. This is especially true in the case of generic
    products on which the patent covering the brand product is
    expiring, an area where infringement litigation is prevalent,
    and in the case of new brand products where a competitor has
    obtained patents for similar products. Litigation may be costly
    and time-consuming, and could divert the attention of our
    management and technical personnel. In addition, if we infringe
    on the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop or
    manufacture products or could be required to pay monetary
    damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third
    parties. Although the parties to patent and intellectual
    property disputes in the pharmaceutical industry have often
    settled their disputes through licensing or similar
    arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may
    be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore,
    we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be
    available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As
    a result, an adverse determination in a judicial or
    administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary
    licenses could prevent us



    
    23



Table of Contents




    from manufacturing and selling a number of our products, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Our
    distribution operations are highly dependent upon a primary
    courier service.


 


    Product deliveries within our Distribution business are highly
    dependent on overnight delivery services to deliver our products
    in a timely and reliable manner, typically by overnight service.
    Since 2004, Anda has shipped a substantial portion of products
    via one courier’s air and ground delivery service. Our
    contract with this courier expires in June 2009, but may be
    terminated by either party for any reason, or no reason, with
    60 days written notice. Additionally, our Groveport, Ohio
    facility is strategically located next to one of the
    courier’s air hubs. If the courier terminates the agreement
    or we cannot renew the courier’s contract on favorable
    terms or enter into a contract with an equally reliable
    overnight courier to perform and offer the same service level at
    similar or more favorable rates, our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows could be
    materially adversely affected.


 



    Our
    distribution operations concentrate on generic products and
    therefore are subject to the risks of the generic
    industry.


 


    The ability of our Distribution business to provide consistent,
    sequential quarterly growth is affected, in large part, by our
    participation in the launch of new products by generic
    manufacturers and the subsequent advent and extent of
    competition encountered by these products. This competition can
    result in significant and rapid declines in pricing with a
    corresponding decrease in net sales of our Distribution
    business. Our margins can also be affected by the risks inherent
    to the generic industry.


 



    If we
    are unable to obtain sufficient supplies from key suppliers that
    in some cases may be the only source of finished products or raw
    materials, our ability to deliver our products to the market may
    be impeded.


 


    We are required to identify the supplier(s) of all the raw
    materials for our products in our applications with the FDA. To
    the extent practicable, we attempt to identify more than one
    supplier in each drug application. However, some products and
    raw materials are available only from a single source and, in
    some of our drug applications, only one supplier of products and
    raw materials has been identified, even in instances where
    multiple sources exist. Among others, this includes products
    that have historically accounted for a significant portion of
    our revenues, such as
    Ferrlecit®,
    bupropion sustained release tablets and a significant number of
    our oral contraceptive products. From time to time, certain of
    our outside suppliers have experienced regulatory or
    supply-related difficulties that have inhibited their ability to
    deliver products and raw materials to us, causing supply delays
    or interruptions. To the extent any difficulties experienced by
    our suppliers cannot be resolved or extensions of our key supply
    agreements cannot be negotiated within a reasonable time and on
    commercially reasonable terms, or if raw materials for a
    particular product become unavailable from an approved supplier
    and we are required to qualify a new supplier with the FDA, or
    if we are unable to do so, our profit margins and market share
    for the affected product could decrease or be eliminated, as
    well as delay our development and sales and marketing efforts.
    Such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.


 


    Our arrangements with foreign suppliers are subject to certain
    additional risks, including the availability of government
    clearances, export duties, political instability, war, acts of
    terrorism, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the
    transfer of funds. For example, we obtain a significant portion
    of our raw materials from foreign suppliers. Arrangements with
    international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other
    things, FDA regulation, customs clearances, various import
    duties and other government clearances. Acts of governments
    outside the U.S. may affect the price or availability of
    raw materials needed for the development or manufacture of our
    products. In addition, recent changes in patent laws in
    jurisdictions outside the U.S. may make it increasingly
    difficult to obtain raw materials for R&D prior to the
    expiration of the applicable U.S. or foreign patents.



    
    24



Table of Contents





    Our
    policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and
    marketing programs adopted by wholesalers, may reduce our
    revenues in future fiscal periods.


 


    Based on industry practice we, like many generic product
    manufacturers, including Watson, have liberal return policies
    and have been willing to give customers post-sale inventory
    allowances. Under these arrangements, from time to time, we may
    give our customers credits on our generic products that our
    customers hold in inventory after we have decreased the market
    prices of the same generic products. Therefore, if new
    competitors enter the marketplace and significantly lower the
    prices of any of their competing products, we may reduce the
    price of our product. As a result, we may be obligated to
    provide significant credits to our customers who are then
    holding inventories of such products, which could reduce sales
    revenue and gross margin for the period the credit is provided.
    Like our competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to
    wholesale customers that have contracts with us for their sales
    to hospitals, group purchasing organizations, pharmacies or
    other retail customers. A chargeback represents an amount
    payable in the future to a wholesaler for the difference between
    the invoice price paid to us by our wholesale customer for a
    particular product and the negotiated contract price that the
    wholesaler’s customer pays for that product. Although we
    establish reserves based on our prior experience and our best
    estimates of the impact that these policies may have in
    subsequent periods, we cannot ensure that our reserves are
    adequate or that actual product returns, allowances and
    chargebacks will not exceed our estimates, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    condition, cash flows and the market price of our stock.


 



    Investigations
    of the calculation of average wholesale prices may adversely
    affect our business.


 


    Many government and third-party payors, including Medicare,
    Medicaid, HMOs and MCOs, reimburse doctors and others for the
    purchase of certain prescription drugs based on a drug’s
    AWP. In the past several years, state and federal government
    agencies have conducted ongoing investigations of
    manufacturers’ reporting practices with respect to AWP, in
    which they have suggested that reporting of inflated AWP’s
    have led to excessive payments for prescription drugs. For
    example, beginning in July 2002, we and certain of our
    subsidiaries, as well as numerous other pharmaceutical
    companies, were named as defendants in various state and federal
    court actions alleging improper or fraudulent practices related
    to the reporting of AWP of certain products, and other improper
    acts, in order to increase prices and market shares. Additional
    actions are anticipated. These actions, if successful, could
    adversely affect us and may have a material adverse effect on
    our business, results of operations, financial condition and
    cash flows. See Legal Matters in
    “NOTE 13 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report.


 



    The
    design, development, manufacture and sale of our products
    involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and
    other third parties, and insurance against such potential claims
    is expensive and may be difficult to obtain.


 


    The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products
    involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and the
    associated adverse publicity. Insurance coverage is expensive
    and may be difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the
    future on acceptable terms, or at all. Although we currently
    maintain product liability insurance for our products in amounts
    we believe to be commercially reasonable, if the coverage limits
    of these insurance policies are not adequate, a claim brought
    against Watson, whether covered by insurance or not, could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    The
    loss of our key personnel could cause our business to
    suffer.


 


    The success of our present and future operations will depend, to
    a significant extent, upon the experience, abilities and
    continued services of key personnel. For example, although we
    have other senior management personnel, a significant loss of
    the services of Paul Bisaro, our Chief Executive Officer, or
    other senior executive officers without hiring a suitable
    successor, could cause our business to suffer. We cannot assure
    you that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel. We
    have entered into employment agreements with the majority of our
    senior executive officers but such agreements do not guarantee
    that our senior executive



    
    25



Table of Contents




    officers will remain employed by us for a significant period of
    time, or at all. We do not carry key-man life insurance on any
    of our officers.


 



    Rising
    insurance costs could negatively impact
    profitability.


 


    The cost of insurance, including workers compensation, product
    liability and general liability insurance, can increase
    significantly in a given period and may increase in the future.
    In response, we may increase deductibles
    and/or
    decrease certain coverages to mitigate these costs. These
    increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles
    and reduced coverages, could have a negative impact on our
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Implementation
    of enterprise resource planning systems could cause business
    interruptions and negatively affect our profitability and cash
    flows.


 


    From time to time, we may implement new enterprise resource
    planning (“ERP”) systems and software, or upgrades to
    existing systems and software, to further enhance our
    operations. Implementation of ERP systems and software carry
    risks such as cost overruns, project delays and business
    interruptions and delays. We plan to implement a new phase of an
    ERP system into our U.S. manufacturing operation during
    2008. If we experience a significant business interruption as a
    result of such implementations, it could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows.


 



    Significant
    balances of intangible assets, including product rights and
    goodwill acquired, are subject to impairment testing and may
    result in impairment charges, which will adversely affect our
    results of operations and financial condition.


 


    A significant amount of our total assets is related to acquired
    intangibles and goodwill. As of December 31, 2007, the
    carrying value of our product rights and other intangible assets
    was approximately $604 million and the carrying value of
    our goodwill was approximately $876 million.


 


    Our product rights are stated at cost, less accumulated
    amortization. We determine original fair value and amortization
    periods for product rights based on our assessment of various
    factors impacting estimated useful lives and cash flows of the
    acquired products. Such factors include the product’s
    position in its life cycle, the existence or absence of like
    products in the market, various other competitive and regulatory
    issues and contractual terms. Significant adverse changes to any
    of these factors would require us to perform an impairment test
    on the affected asset and, if evidence of impairment exists, we
    would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to
    the asset. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations and financial condition.


 


    Our other significant intangible assets include acquired core
    technology and customer relationships, which are intangible
    assets with definite lives, and the Anda trade name, which is an
    intangible asset with an indefinite life, as we intend to use
    the Anda trade name indefinitely.


 


    Our acquired core technology and customer relationships
    intangible assets are stated at cost, less accumulated
    amortization. We determined the original fair value of our other
    intangible assets by performing a discounted cash flow analysis,
    which is based on our assessment of various factors. Such
    factors include existing operating margins, the number of
    existing and potential competitors, product pricing patterns,
    product market share analysis, product approval and launch
    dates, the effects of competition, customer attrition rates,
    consolidation within the industry and generic product lifecycle
    estimates. Our other intangible assets with definite lives are
    tested for impairment when there are significant changes to any
    of these factors. Our other intangible assets with indefinite
    lives are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if
    there are significant changes to any of the above factors. If
    evidence of impairment exists, we would be required to take an
    impairment charge with respect to the tested asset. Such a
    charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial condition.


 


    Goodwill and our Anda trade name intangible asset are tested for
    impairment annually and when events occur or circumstances
    change that could potentially reduce the fair value of the
    reporting unit or intangible



    
    26



Table of Contents




    asset. Impairment testing compares the fair value of the
    reporting unit or intangible asset to its carrying amount. A
    goodwill or trade name impairment, if any, would be recorded in
    operating income and could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Issuance
    of debt or equity securities could materially change our
    operating results and financial condition.


 


    We may consider issuing additional debt or equity securities in
    the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to
    refinance existing debt, or for general corporate purposes. If a
    material acquisition or investment is completed, our operating
    results and financial condition could change materially in
    future periods. However, no assurance can be given that
    additional funds will be available on satisfactory terms, or at
    all, to fund such activities.


 



    Our
    business could suffer as a result of manufacturing difficulties
    or delays.


 


    The manufacture of certain of our products and product
    candidates, particularly our controlled-release products and our
    oral contraceptive products, are more difficult than the
    manufacture of immediate-release products. Successful
    manufacturing of these types of products requires precise
    manufacturing process controls, API that conforms to very tight
    tolerances for specific characteristics and equipment that
    operates consistently within narrow performance ranges.
    Manufacturing complexity, testing requirements, and safety and
    security processes combine to increase the overall difficulty of
    manufacturing these products and resolving manufacturing
    problems that we may encounter.


 


    Our manufacturing and other processes utilize sophisticated
    equipment, which sometimes require a significant amount of time
    to obtain and install. Although we endeavor to properly maintain
    our equipment and spare parts on hand, our business could suffer
    if certain manufacturing or other equipment, or a portion or all
    of our facilities were to become inoperable for a period of
    time. This could occur for various reasons, including
    catastrophic events such as earthquake, hurricane or explosion,
    unexpected equipment failures or delays in obtaining components
    or replacements thereof, as well as construction delays or
    defects and other events, both within and outside of our
    control. Our inability to timely manufacture any of our
    significant products could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    Our
    business will continue to expose us to risks of environmental
    liabilities.


 


    Our product development programs, manufacturing processes and
    distribution logistics involve the controlled use of hazardous
    materials, chemicals and toxic compounds in our owned and leased
    facilities. As a result, we are subject to numerous and
    increasingly stringent federal, state and local environmental
    laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the
    generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and
    disposal of toxic and hazardous materials and the discharge of
    pollutants into the air and water. Our programs and processes
    expose us to risks that an accidental contamination could result
    in (i) our noncompliance with such environmental laws and
    regulations and (ii) regulatory enforcement actions or
    claims for personal injury and property damage against us. If an
    accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover
    contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior
    owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be
    liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. The
    substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a material
    and adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, environmental
    permits and controls are required for some of our operations,
    and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and
    revocation by the issuing authorities. Any modification,
    revocation or non-renewal of our environmental permits could
    have a material adverse effect on our ongoing operations,
    business and financial condition. Our environmental capital
    expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase
    in the future as a result of changes in environmental laws and
    regulations or increased development or manufacturing activities
    at any of our facilities.



    
    27



Table of Contents





    Unanticipated
    changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax
    liabilities could affect our profitability.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and other
    foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely
    affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with
    different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of
    deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in or
    interpretations of tax laws including pending tax law changes
    (such as the R&D credit), changes in our manufacturing
    activities and changes in our future levels of R&D
    spending. In addition, we are subject to the continuous
    examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue
    Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the
    likelihood of outcomes resulting from our tax positions to
    determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There
    can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous
    examinations will not have an adverse effect on our provision
    for income taxes and estimated income tax liabilities.


 



    Risks
    Relating To Investing In the Pharmaceutical Industry


 



    Extensive
    industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a
    significant impact on our business, especially our product
    development, manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities.


 


    All pharmaceutical companies, including Watson, are subject to
    extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the
    federal government, principally the FDA and to a lesser extent
    by the DEA and state government agencies, as well as by varying
    regulatory agencies in foreign countries where products or
    product candidates are being manufactured
    and/or
    marketed. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the
    Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and
    regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing,
    packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval,
    advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products.


 


    Under these regulations, we are subject to periodic inspection
    of our facilities, procedures and operations
    and/or the
    testing of our products by the FDA, the DEA and other
    authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that
    we are in compliance with all applicable regulations. In
    addition, the FDA conducts pre-approval and post-approval
    reviews and plant inspections to determine whether our systems
    and processes are in compliance with cGMP and other FDA
    regulations. Following such inspections, the FDA may issue
    notices on Form 483 and warning letters that could cause us
    to modify certain activities identified during the inspection. A
    Form 483 notice is generally issued at the conclusion of a
    FDA inspection and lists conditions the FDA inspectors believe
    may violate cGMP or other FDA regulations. FDA guidelines
    specify that a warning letter is issued only for violations of
    “regulatory significance” for which the failure to
    adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to
    result in an enforcement action.


 


    Our manufacturing facility in Corona, California (which
    manufactured products representing approximately 12% of our
    total product net revenues for 2007) is currently subject
    to a consent decree of permanent injunction. Similarly, our
    manufacturing facility in Davie, Florida (which manufactured
    products representing approximately 4% of our total product net
    revenues for 2007) is currently under OAI status by the
    FDA. While on OAI status, we are not eligible to obtain
    approvals for products manufactured at our Davie, Florida
    facility. We cannot assure that the FDA will determine we have
    adequately corrected deficiencies at our respective
    manufacturing sites (including the ones referenced above), that
    subsequent FDA inspections will not result in additional
    inspectional observations at such sites, that approval of any of
    the pending or subsequently submitted NDAs, ANDAs or supplements
    to such applications by Watson or our subsidiaries will be
    granted or that the FDA will not seek to impose additional
    sanctions against Watson or any of its subsidiaries. The range
    of possible sanctions includes, among others, FDA issuance of
    adverse publicity, product recalls or seizures, fines, total or
    partial suspension of production
    and/or
    distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of product
    applications, enforcement actions, injunctions, and civil or
    criminal prosecution. Any such sanctions, if imposed, could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, operating results,
    financial condition and cash flows. Under certain circumstances,
    the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug
    approvals. Similar sanctions as detailed above may be available
    to the FDA under a consent decree, depending upon the actual
    terms of such decree. Although we have instituted internal
    compliance programs, if these programs do not meet regulatory
    agency standards or if compliance is deemed deficient in any
    significant way,



    
    28



Table of Contents




    it could materially harm our business. Certain of our vendors
    are subject to similar regulation and periodic inspections.


 


    The process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture
    and market pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming
    and costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be
    affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We are
    dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental or third-party
    approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping our
    products. Consequently, there is always the chance that we will
    not obtain FDA or other necessary approvals, or that the rate,
    timing and cost of such approvals, will adversely affect our
    product introduction plans or results of operations. We carry
    inventories of certain product(s) in anticipation of launch, and
    if such product(s) are not subsequently launched, we may be
    required to write off the related inventory.


 


    Our distribution operations and our customers are subject to
    various regulatory requirements, including requirements from the
    DEA, FDA, State Boards of Pharmacy and City and County Health
    regulators, among others. These include licensing, registration,
    recordkeeping, security and reporting requirements. In
    particular, several states and the federal government have begun
    to enforce anti-counterfeit drug pedigree laws which require the
    tracking of all transactions involving prescription drugs
    beginning with the manufacturer, through the supply chain, and
    down to the pharmacy or other health care provider dispensing or
    administering prescription drug products. For example, effective
    July 1, 2006, the Florida Department of Health, began
    enforcement of the drug pedigree requirements for distribution
    of prescription drugs in the State of Florida. Pursuant to
    Florida law and regulations, wholesalers and distributors,
    including our subsidiary, Anda Pharmaceuticals, are required to
    maintain records documenting the chain of custody of
    prescription drug products they distribute beginning with the
    purchase of products from the manufacturer. These entities are
    required to provide documentation of the prior transaction(s) to
    their customers in Florida, including pharmacies and other
    health care entities. Several other states have proposed or
    enacted legislation to implement similar or more stringent drug
    pedigree requirements. In addition, federal law requires that a
    “non-authorized distributor of record” must provide a
    drug pedigree documenting the prior purchase of a prescription
    drug from the manufacturer or from an “authorized
    distributor of record.” In cases where the wholesaler or
    distributor selling the drug product is not deemed an
    “authorized distributor of record” it would need to
    maintain such records. FDA had announced its intent to impose
    additional drug pedigree requirements (e.g., tracking of lot
    numbers and documentation of all transactions) through
    implementation of drug pedigree regulations which were to have
    taken effect on December 1, 2006. However, a federal
    appeals court has issued a preliminary injunction to several
    wholesale distributors granting an indefinite stay of these
    regulations pending a challenge to the regulations by these
    wholesale distributors.


 



    Federal
    regulation of arrangements between manufacturers of brand and
    generic products could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    As part of the MMA, companies are required to file with the FTC
    and the Department of Justice certain types of agreements
    entered into between brand and generic pharmaceutical companies
    related to the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic
    versions of brand drugs. This requirement could affect the
    manner in which generic drug manufacturers resolve intellectual
    property litigation and other disputes with brand pharmaceutical
    companies and could result generally in an increase in
    private-party litigation against pharmaceutical companies or
    additional investigations or proceedings by the FTC or other
    governmental authorities. The impact of this requirement, and
    the potential private-party lawsuits associated with
    arrangements between brand name and generic drug manufacturers,
    is uncertain and could adversely affect our business. For
    example, we have received requests for information, in the form
    of civil investigative demands or subpoenas, from the FTC, and
    are subject to ongoing FTC investigations, concerning our
    settlement with Solvay and Laboratories Besins Isovesco related
    to our ANDA for a generic version of
    Androgel®,
    our settlement with Cephalon related to our ANDA for a generic
    version of
    Provigil®,
    and our agreement with Sandoz to relinquish our Hatch-Waxman
    marketing exclusivity on our ANDA for a 50 mg. generic
    version of Toprol
    XL®.
    If the FTC or private parties were to initiate legal actions
    challenging these transactions, it could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows.



    
    29



Table of Contents





    Healthcare
    reform and a reduction in the reimbursement levels by
    governmental authorities, HMOs, MCOs or other third-party payors
    may adversely affect our business.


 


    In order to assist us in commercializing products, we have
    obtained from government authorities and private health insurers
    and other organizations, such as HMOs and MCOs, authorization to
    receive reimbursement at varying levels for the cost of certain
    products and related treatments. Third party payors increasingly
    challenge pricing of pharmaceutical products. The trend toward
    managed healthcare in the U.S., the growth of organizations such
    as HMOs and MCOs and legislative proposals to reform healthcare
    and government insurance programs could significantly influence
    the purchase of pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower
    prices and a reduction in product demand. Such cost containment
    measures and healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell
    our products and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows. Additionally, there is uncertainty surrounding the
    implementation of the provisions of Part D of the MMA.
    Depending on how such provisions are implemented, reimbursement
    may not be available for some of Watson’s products.
    Additionally, any reimbursement granted may not be maintained or
    limits on reimbursement available from third-party payors may
    reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, those
    products and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows. We may also be subject to lawsuits relating to
    reimbursement programs that could be costly to defend, divert
    management’s attention and adversely affect our operating
    results.


 



    The
    pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.


 


    We face strong competition in both our generic and brand product
    businesses. The intensely competitive environment requires an
    ongoing, extensive search for technological innovations and the
    ability to market products effectively, including the ability to
    communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of brand
    products to healthcare professionals in private practice, group
    practices and MCOs. Our competitors vary depending upon product
    categories, and within each product category, upon dosage
    strengths and drug-delivery systems. Based on total assets,
    annual revenues, and market capitalization, we are smaller than
    certain of our national and international competitors in the
    brand product arena. Most of our competitors have been in
    business for a longer period of time than Watson, have a greater
    number of products on the market and have greater financial and
    other resources than we do. If we directly compete with them for
    the same markets
    and/or
    products, their financial strength could prevent us from
    capturing a profitable share of those markets. It is possible
    that developments by our competitors will make our products or
    technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.


 


    Revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic
    pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on
    certain regulatory and competitive factors. As patents for brand
    name products and related exclusivity periods expire, the first
    generic manufacturer to receive regulatory approval for generic
    equivalents of such products is generally able to achieve
    significant market penetration. As competing off-patent
    manufacturers receive regulatory approvals on similar products
    or as brand manufacturers launch generic versions of such
    products (for which no separate regulatory approval is
    required), market share, revenues and gross profit typically
    decline, in some cases dramatically. Accordingly, the level of
    market share, revenue and gross profit attributable to a
    particular generic product normally is related to the number of
    competitors in that product’s market and the timing of that
    product’s regulatory approval and launch, in relation to
    competing approvals and launches. Consequently, we must continue
    to develop and introduce new products in a timely and
    cost-effective manner to maintain our revenues and gross
    margins. Additionally, as new competitors enter the market,
    there may be increased pricing pressure on certain products,
    which would result in lower gross margins. This is particularly
    true in the case of certain Asian and other overseas
    competitors, who may be able to produce products at costs lower
    than the costs of domestic manufacturers. If we experience
    substantial competition from Asian or other overseas competitors
    with lower production costs, our profit margins will suffer.


 


    We also face strong competition in our Distribution business,
    where we compete with a number of large wholesalers and other
    distributors of pharmaceuticals, including McKesson Corporation,
    AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., which
    market both brand and generic pharmaceutical products to their
    customers. These companies are significant customers of our
    pharmaceutical business. As generic products



    
    30



Table of Contents




    generally have higher gross margins, each of the large
    wholesalers, on an increasing basis, are offering pricing
    incentives on brand products if the customers purchase a large
    portion of their generic pharmaceutical products from the
    primary wholesaler. As we do not offer both brand and generic
    products to our customers, we are at times competitively
    disadvantaged and must compete with these wholesalers based upon
    our very competitive pricing for generic products, greater
    service levels and our well-established telemarketing
    relationships with our customers, supplemented by our electronic
    ordering capabilities. The large wholesalers have historically
    not used telemarketers to sell to their customers, but recently
    have begun to do so. Additionally, generic manufacturers are
    increasingly marketing their products directly to smaller chains
    and thus increasingly bypassing wholesalers and distributors.
    Increased competition in the generic industry as a whole may
    result in increased price erosion in the pursuit of market share.


 


    Sales of our products may continue to be adversely affected by
    the continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the
    concentration of our customer base.


 


    Our principal customers in our brand and generic pharmaceutical
    operations are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug
    store chains. These customers comprise a significant part of the
    distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the
    U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo
    significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions
    among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug
    store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale
    distributors and large chain drug stores control a significant
    share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug
    wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other
    competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including Watson.


 


    For the year ended December 31, 2007, our three largest
    customers accounted for 12%, 11% and 9% respectively, of our net
    revenues. The loss of any of these customers could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flows. In addition, none of our
    customers are party to any long-term supply agreements with us,
    and thus are able to change suppliers freely should they wish to
    do so.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B