Item 1A. Risk Factors" -->


Item 1A. 
 Risk Factors



Casualty Insurance Underwriting and
Reserves




Casualty insurance liabilities are difficult to predict and
may exceed the related reserves for losses and loss
expenses. Although AIG annually reviews the adequacy of the
established reserve for losses and loss expenses, there can be
no assurance that AIG’s loss reserves will not develop
adversely and have a material effect on AIG’s results of
operations. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and
loss reserves is a complex process for long-tail casualty lines
of business, which include excess and umbrella liability,
D&O, professional liability, medical malpractice, workers
compensation, general liability, products liability and related
classes, as well as for asbestos and environmental exposures.
Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used
to project future loss development. However, there can be no
assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same
as in the past. Moreover, any deviation in loss cost trends or
in loss development factors might not be discernible for an
extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the
initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus,
there is the potential for reserves with respect to a number of
years to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost
trends or loss development factors that were relied upon in
setting the reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss
development factors could be attributable to changes in
inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other social or
economic phenomena affecting claims, such as the effects that
the recent disruption in the credit markets could have on
reported claims under D&O or professional liability
coverages. See also Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Operating Review — General Insurance
Operations — Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses.



Credit Market Environment




AIG’s businesses may continue to be adversely affected
by the current disruption in the global credit markets and
repricing of credit risk. During the second half of 2007,
disruption in the global credit markets, coupled with the
repricing of credit risk, and the U.S. housing market
deterioration created increasingly difficult conditions in the
financial markets. These conditions have resulted in greater
volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads and a
lack of price transparency in certain markets. These conditions
continue to adversely affect Mortgage Guaranty’s results of
operations and the fair value of the AIGFP super senior credit
default swap portfolio and contribute to higher levels of
finance receivables delinquencies at AGF and to the severe and
rapid decline in the fair value of certain investment
securities, particularly those backed by U.S. residential
mortgage loans. It is difficult to predict how long these
conditions will exist and how AIG’s markets, products and
businesses will continue to be adversely affected. Accordingly,
these conditions could adversely affect AIG’s consolidated
financial condition or results of operations in future periods.
In addition, litigation and regulatory or governmental
investigations and inquiries have been commenced against AIG
related to these events and AIG may become subject to further
litigation and regulatory or governmental scrutiny as a result
of these events.



Risk Management




AIG is exposed to a number of significant risks, and
AIG’s risk management processes and controls may not be
fully effective in mitigating AIG’s risk exposures in all
market conditions and to all types of risk. The major risks
to which AIG is exposed include: credit risk, market risk,
operational risk, liquidity risk and insurance risk. AIG has
devoted significant resources to the development and
implementation of risk management processes and controls across
AIG’s operations, including by establishing review and
oversight committees to monitor risks, setting limits and
identifying risk mitigating strategies and techniques.
Nonetheless, these procedures may not be fully effective in
mitigating risk exposure in all market conditions, some of which
change rapidly and severely. A failure of AIG’s risk
management processes or the ineffectiveness of AIG’s risk
mitigating strategies and techniques could adversely affect,
perhaps materially, AIG’s consolidated results of
operations, liquidity or financial condition, result in
regulatory action or litigation or damage AIG’s reputation.
See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management.



Liquidity




AIG’s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to
access the capital markets or by unforeseen significant outflows
of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances that
AIG may be unable to control, such as a general market
disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties
or AIG. In addition, this situation may arise due to
circumstances specific to AIG, such as a decline in its credit
ratings. AIG depends on dividends, distributions and other
payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to
fund payments on AIG’s obligations, including debt
obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit
AIG’s ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from
its subsidiaries. In particular, many of AIG’s
subsidiaries, including AIG’s insurance subsidiaries, are
subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies
to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding
company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain
circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder AIG’s
ability to access funds that AIG may need to make payments on
its obligations. See also Item 1. Business —
Regulation.



Some of AIG’s investments are relatively illiquid and
would be difficult to sell, or to sell at acceptable prices, if
AIG required cash in amounts greater than its customary
needs. AIG’s investments in certain securities,
including certain structured securities, direct private
equities, limited partnerships, hedge funds, mortgage loans,
flight equipment, finance receivables and real estate are
relatively illiquid. These asset classes represented
approximately 23 percent of the carrying value of AIG’s
total cash and invested assets as of December 31, 2007. In
addition, the current disruption in the credit markets has
affected the liquidity of other AIG portfolios





 16        AIG
2007 Form 10-K




Table of Contents


American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries











 







including the residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio.
If AIG requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in
excess of normal cash requirements or is required to post or
return collateral in connection with its investment portfolio,
derivative transactions or securities lending activities, then
AIG may have difficulty selling these investments or terminating
these transactions in a timely manner or may be forced to sell
or terminate them for less than what AIG might otherwise have
been able to, or both. Although AIGFP has no current intent to
do so, if AIGFP sells or closes out its derivative transactions
prior to maturity, the effect could be significant to AIG’s
overall liquidity.



AIG’s liquidity may be adversely affected by
requirements to post collateral. Certain of the credit
default swaps written by AIGFP contain collateral posting
requirements. The amount of collateral required to be posted for
most of these transactions is determined based on the value of
the security or loan referenced in the documentation for the
credit default swap. Continued declines in the values of these
referenced securities or loans will increase the amount of
collateral AIGFP must post which could impair AIG’s
liquidity.


   
See also Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Capital
Resources and Liquidity — Liquidity.



Investment Concentration




Concentration of AIG’s investment portfolios in any
particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects.
Any concentration of AIG’s investment portfolios in any
particular industry, group of related industries, asset classes,
such as residential mortgage-backed securities and other
asset-backed securities, or geographic sector could have an
adverse effect on the investment portfolios and consequently on
AIG’s consolidated results of operations or financial
condition. While AIG seeks to mitigate this risk by having a
broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have
a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group
of related industries or geographic region may have a greater
adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that
the portfolios are concentrated. Further, AIG’s ability to
sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets
may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell
at the same time.



Credit Ratings




Ratings actions regarding AIG could adversely affect
AIG’s business and its consolidated results of
operations. Following AIG’s filing with the SEC on
February 11, 2008 of a Current Report on
Form 8-K regarding
the valuation of AIGFP’s super senior credit default swap
portfolio and reporting the conclusion by AIG’s independent
auditors that AIG had a material weakness in internal control
over financial reporting and oversight relating to this
valuation, the following credit rating actions were taken:





    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    Standard & Poor’s, a division of The McGraw-Hill
    Companies, Inc. (S&P) affirmed its ‘AA’
    counterparty credit ratings on AIG and its ‘AA+’
    counterparty credit and financial strength ratings on AIG’s
    core subsidiaries, but revised the rating outlook to negative.
    In addition, S&P revised its rating outlook on ILFC’s
    corporate credit rating (AA-) to negative. A negative ratings
    outlook by S&P indicates that a rating may be lowered, but
    is not necessarily a precursor of a ratings change.



     
    • 
    
    Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) changed its rating
    outlook for AIG and its subsidiaries that have substantial
    exposure to the U.S. subprime mortgage market or whose ratings
    rely on significant explicit or implicit support from AIG to
    negative. Moody’s rates AIG ‘Aa2’ and nearly all
    of its insurance subsidiaries either ‘Aa1’ or
    ‘Aa2’. A negative ratings outlook by Moody’s
    indicates that a rating may be lowered, but is not necessarily a
    precursor of a ratings change.



     
    • 
    
    Fitch Ratings (Fitch) placed AIG’s and its
    subsidiaries’ long-term debt ratings (AA), including ILFC
    (A+) and AGF (A+), on Rating Watch Negative. Rating Watch
    Negative indicates that a rating has been placed on active
    rating watch status. Fitch indicated that it expects to resolve
    the Rating Watch after it reviews AIG’s 2007 audited
    financial statements.



     
    • 
    
    A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best) placed most of its financial
    strength and issuer credit ratings on AIG’s domestic Life
    Insurance and Retirement Services (A++) and Domestic General
    Insurance subsidiaries (including Transatlantic) (A+), as well
    as AIG’s issuer credit rating (AA), under review with
    negative implications. A.M. Best indicated that following a
    detailed review of AIG’s 2007 audited financial statements
    and further discussion with AIG management, it will re-evaluate
    the “under review” rating status.




   
Financial strength and credit ratings by the major ratings
agencies are an important factor in establishing the competitive
position of insurance companies and other financial institutions
and affect the availability and cost of borrowings. Financial
strength ratings measure an insurance company’s ability to
meet its obligations to contract holders and policyholders, help
to maintain public confidence in a company’s products,
facilitate marketing of products and enhance a company’s
competitive position. Credit ratings measure a company’s
ability to repay its obligations and directly affect the cost
and availability to that company of unsecured financing.
AIG’s ratings have historically provided it with a
competitive advantage. However, a ratings downgrade could
adversely affect AIG’s business and its consolidated
results of operations in a number of ways, including:





    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    increasing AIG’s interest expense;



     
    • 
    
    reducing AIGFP’s ability to compete in the structured
    products and derivatives businesses;



     
    • 
    
    reducing the competitive advantage of AIG’s insurance
    subsidiaries, which may result in reduced product sales;



     
    • 
    
    adversely affecting relationships with agents and sales
    representatives;



     
    • 
    
    in the case of a downgrade of AGF or ILFC, increasing their
    interest expense and reducing their ability to compete in their
    respective businesses; and



     
    • 
    
    triggering the application of a termination provision in certain
    of AIG’s contracts, principally agreements entered into by
    AIGFP and assumed reinsurance contracts entered into by
    Transatlantic.







AIG 2007
Form 10-K        
17



Table of Contents


American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries











 






   
In the event of a downgrade of AIG, AIG would be required to
post additional collateral. It is estimated that, as of the
close of business on February 14, 2008, based on AIG’s
outstanding municipal GIAs and financial derivatives
transactions as of such date, a further downgrade of AIG’s
long-term senior debt ratings to Aa3 by Moody’s or AA- by
S&P would permit counterparties to call for approximately
$1.39 billion of additional collateral. Further, additional
downgrades could result in requirements for substantial
additional collateral, which could have a material effect on how
AIG manages its liquidity. For a further discussion of
AIG’s credit ratings and the potential effect of posting
collateral on AIG’s liquidity, see Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Capital Resources and
Liquidity — Credit Ratings and — Liquidity.



Catastrophe Exposures




The occurrence of catastrophic events could adversely affect
AIG’s consolidated financial condition or results of
operations. The occurrence of events such as hurricanes,
earthquakes, pandemic disease, acts of terrorism and other
catastrophes could adversely affect AIG’s consolidated
financial condition or results of operations, including by
exposing AIG’s businesses to the following:





    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    widespread claim costs associated with property, workers
    compensation, mortality and morbidity claims;



     
    • 
    
    loss resulting from the value of invested assets declining to
    below the amount required to meet the policy and contract
    liabilities; and



     
    • 
    
    loss resulting from actual policy experience emerging adversely
    in comparison to the assumptions made in the product pricing
    related to mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses.





Reinsurance




Reinsurance may not be available or affordable. AIG
subsidiaries are major purchasers of reinsurance and utilize
reinsurance as part of AIG’s overall risk management
strategy. Reinsurance is an important risk management tool to
manage transaction and insurance line risk retention, and to
mitigate losses that may arise from catastrophes. Market
conditions beyond AIG’s control determine the availability
and cost of the reinsurance purchased by AIG subsidiaries. For
example, reinsurance may be more difficult to obtain after a
year with a large number of major catastrophes. Accordingly, AIG
may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or
may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable
terms, in which case AIG would have to accept an increase in
exposure risk, reduce the amount of business written by its
subsidiaries or seek alternatives.



Reinsurance subjects AIG to the credit risk of its reinsurers
and may not be adequate to protect AIG against losses.
Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to the AIG
subsidiary to the extent the risk is ceded subject to the terms
and conditions of the reinsurance contracts in place, it does
not relieve the AIG subsidiary of the primary liability to its
policyholders. Accordingly, AIG bears credit risk with respect
to its subsidiaries’ reinsurers to the extent not mitigated
by collateral or other credit enhancements. A reinsurer’s
insolvency or inability or refusal to make timely payments under
the terms of its agreements with the AIG subsidiaries could have
a material adverse effect on AIG’s results of operations
and liquidity. See also Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Risk Management — Reinsurance.



Adjustments to Life Insurance &
Retirement Services Deferred Policy 
 Acquisition Costs




Interest rate fluctuations and other events may require AIG
subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy
acquisition costs (DAC) which could adversely affect
AIG’s consolidated financial condition or results of
operations. DAC represents the costs that vary with and are
related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal
insurance and annuity contracts. When interest rates rise,
policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance
policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders
seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring
AIG subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of DAC. To the
extent such amortization exceeds surrender or other charges
earned upon surrender and withdrawals of certain life insurance
policies and annuity contracts, AIG’s results of operations
could be negatively affected.


   
DAC for both insurance-oriented and investment-oriented products
as well as retirement services products is reviewed for
recoverability, which involves estimating the future
profitability of current business. This review involves
significant management judgment. If the actual emergence of
future profitability were to be substantially lower than
estimated, AIG could be required to accelerate its DAC
amortization and such acceleration could adversely affect
AIG’s results of operations. See also Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates and
Notes 1 and 6 to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Use of Estimates




If actual experience differs from management’s estimates
used in the preparation of financial statements, AIG’s
consolidated results of operations or financial condition could
be adversely affected. The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States requires the application of
accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of
judgment. AIG considers that its accounting policies that are
most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions,
and therefore viewed as critical accounting estimates, are those
described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting estimates
require the use of assumptions, some of which are highly
uncertain at the time of estimation. For example, recent market
volatility and declines in liquidity have made it more difficult
to value certain of AIG’s invested assets and the
obligations and collateral relating to certain financial
instruments issued or held by AIG, such as





 18        AIG
2007 Form 10-K




Table of Contents


American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries











 







AIGFP’s super senior credit default swap portfolio. To the
extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used,
AIG’s consolidated results of operations or financial
condition would be directly affected, perhaps materially.



Legal Proceedings




Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect AIG’s
results of operations. AIG is party to numerous legal
proceedings and regulatory or governmental investigations. It is
possible that the effect of these unresolved matters could be
material to AIG’s consolidated results of operations for an
individual reporting period. For a discussion of these
unresolved matters, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings.



Foreign Operations




Foreign operations expose AIG to risks that may affect its
operations, liquidity and financial condition. AIG provides
insurance, investment and other financial products and services
to both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries
and jurisdictions. A substantial portion of AIG’s General
Insurance business and a majority of its Life Insurance &
Retirement Services business is conducted outside the United
States. Operations outside of the United States, particularly
those in developing nations, may be affected by regional
economic downturns, changes in foreign currency exchange rates,
political upheaval, nationalization and other restrictive
government actions, which could also affect other AIG operations.


   
The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign
jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as its
subsidiaries operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local
regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities
to AIG subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation.
Thus, AIG’s insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from
conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where
they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country
could adversely affect AIG’s results of operations,
liquidity and financial condition depending on the magnitude of
the event and AIG’s net financial exposure at that time in
that country.



Regulation




AIG is subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions
in which it conducts its businesses. AIG’s operations
around the world are subject to regulation by different types of
regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities,
investment advisory, banking and thrift regulators in the United
States and abroad. AIG’s operations have become more
diverse and consumer-oriented, increasing the scope of
regulatory supervision and the possibility of intervention. In
particular, AIG’s consumer lending business is subject to a
broad array of laws and regulations governing lending practices
and permissible loan terms, and AIG would expect increased
regulatory oversight relating to this business.


   
The regulatory environment could have a significant effect on
AIG and its businesses. Among other things, AIG could be fined,
prohibited from engaging in some of its business activities or
subject to limitations or conditions on its business activities.
Significant regulatory action against AIG could have material
adverse financial effects, cause significant reputational harm
or harm business prospects. New laws or regulations or changes
in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to
clients may also adversely affect AIG and its businesses.



A Material Weakness




A material weakness in internal control over financial
reporting and oversight relating to the AIGFP valuation of its
super senior credit default swap portfolio could adversely
affect the accuracy or timing of future regulatory filings.
AIG’s management has concluded that a material weakness
relating to the internal control over financial reporting and
oversight relating to the fair value valuation of the AIGFP
super senior credit default swap portfolio existed as of
December 31, 2007. Until remediated, this weakness could
adversely affect the accuracy or timing of future filings with
the SEC and other regulatory authorities. A discussion of this
material weakness and AIG’s remediation efforts can be
found in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures —
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting.



Employee Error and Misconduct




Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and
prevent and may result in significant losses. Losses may
result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to
document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal
authorization or failure to comply with regulatory requirements.


   
There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving
fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services
industry in recent years, and AIG runs the risk that employee
misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or
prevent employee misconduct and the controls that AIG has in
place to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective
in all cases.



Aircraft Suppliers




There are limited suppliers of aircraft and engines. The
supply of jet transport aircraft, which ILFC purchases and
leases, is dominated by two airframe manufacturers, Boeing and
Airbus, and a limited number of engine manufacturers. As a
result, ILFC is dependent on the manufacturers’ success in
remaining financially stable, producing aircraft and related
components which meet the airlines’ demands, both in type
and quantity, and fulfilling their contractual obligations to
ILFC. Competition between the manufacturers for market share is
intense and may lead to instances of deep discounting for
certain aircraft types and could negatively affect ILFC’s
competitive pricing.






Item 1B