ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORS




 

Investing in AIG involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in AIG, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Any of these risk factors could have a
significant or material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. They could also cause significant fluctuations and volatility in the trading price of
our securities. Readers should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect AIG. These factors should be considered carefully together
with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Further, many of these risks are interrelated and
could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. Such a combination could
materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 

 






MARKET CONDITIONS




 







 Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy may materially and adversely affect our businesses,
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our businesses are highly dependent on the economic environment, both in the U.S. and
around the world. Concerns over continued high domestic unemployment, weakness in the U.S. housing and commercial real estate markets, the ability of the U.S. government to rein in the U.S. deficit,
address the federal debt ceiling and reduce spending, and the European Union's ability to resolve its debt crisis, among other issues, have contributed to increased volatility and reduced expectations
for the economy and the markets in the near term. Extreme prolonged market events, such as the global financial crisis during 2008 and 2009, have at times led, and could in the future lead, to a lack
of liquidity, highly volatile markets, a steep depreciation in asset values across all classes, an erosion of investor and public confidence, and a widening of credit spreads. Difficult economic
conditions could also result in increased unemployment and a severe decline in business across a wide range of industries and regions. These market and economic factors could have a material adverse
effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 

Under
difficult economic conditions, we could experience reduced demand for our financial and insurance products and an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Contract
holders may choose to defer or cease paying insurance premiums. Other ways in which we could be negatively affected by economic conditions, include, but are not limited
to:


•declines in the valuation and performance of our investment portfolio, including declines attributable to rapid increases
in rates; 
•increased credit losses; 
•declines in the value of other assets; 
•impairments of goodwill and other long-lived assets; 
•additional statutory capital requirements; 
•limitations on our ability to recover deferred tax assets; 
•a decline in new business levels and renewals; 
•a decline in insured values caused by a decrease in activity at client organizations;  
•an increase in liability for future policy benefits due to loss recognition on certain long-duration insurance
contracts; 
•higher borrowing costs and more limited availability of credit; 
•an increase in policy surrenders and cancellations; and 
•a write-off of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC). 







Sustained low interest rates may materially and adversely affect our
profitability. Sustained low interest rates can negatively affect the performance of our investment securities and reduce the level of investment
income earned on our investment portfolios. If a low interest rate environment persists, we may experience slower investment 
 <p
align="left" style="font-family:arial;margin-top:12pt;margin-bottom:-10.0pt;border-top:#01415B dotted 1.0pt;padding-top:6.0pt;padding-left:30.0pt;padding-right:0pt;">
AIG 2012 Form 10-K

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg10701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

income
growth and we may not be able to fully mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. Continued low interest rates could impair our ability to earn the returns
assumed in the pricing and the reserving for our products at the time they were sold and issued. 

 






INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO, CONCENTRATION OF INVESTMENTS, INSURANCE AND OTHER EXPOSURES



 








 The performance and value of our investment portfolio are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes
in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including monetary
policies, domestic and international economic and political issues and other factors beyond our control. Changes in monetary policy or other factors may cause interest rates to rise, which would
adversely affect the value of the fixed income securities that we hold and could adversely affect our ability to sell these securities. In addition, the evaluation of
available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairments, which may occur if interest rates rise, is a quantitative and qualitative process
that is subject to significant management judgment. 







 Our investment portfolio is concentrated in certain segments of the
economy. Our results of operations and financial condition have been adversely affected by the degree of concentration in our investment portfolio in
the past, and this may occur again in the future. We have concentrations in residential mortgage-backed, commercial mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage loans. We
also have significant exposures to financial institutions and, in particular, to money center and global banks; U.S. state and local government issuers and authorities; and Eurozone financial
institutions and governments and corporations. Events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group of related industries or geographic region may
adversely affect our investments that are concentrated in such segments. Our ability to sell assets concentrated in such areas may be limited if other market participants are selling similar assets at
the same time. 







Concentration of our insurance and other risk exposures may have adverse
effects. We may be exposed to risks as a result of concentrations in our insurance policies, derivatives and other obligations that we undertake for
customers and counterparties. We manage these concentration risks by monitoring the accumulation of our exposures by factors such as exposure type, industry, geographic region, counterparty and other
factors. We also use reinsurance, hedging and other arrangements to limit or offset exposures that exceed the limits we wish to retain. In certain circumstances, however, these risk management
arrangements may not be available on acceptable terms or may prove to be ineffective for certain exposures. Also, our exposure may be so large that even a slightly adverse experience compared to our
expectations may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition, or result in additional statutory capital requirements for our subsidiaries. 


 






 RESERVES AND EXPOSURES



 







Our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition are subject to the effects of catastrophic
events. Events such as hurricanes, windstorms, flooding, earthquakes, pandemic disease, acts of terrorism and other catastrophes have adversely
affected our business in the past and could do so in the future. Such events could expose us to:


•widespread claim costs associated with property, workers' compensation, business interruption and mortality and morbidity
claims; 
•loss resulting from a decline in the value of our invested assets 
•limitations on our ability to recover deferred tax assets; 
•loss resulting from actual policy experience that is adverse compared to the assumptions made in the product pricing; and  
•significant interruptions to our systems and operations. 

For
a sensitivity analysis of our exposure to certain catastrophes, see Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Operations
Risks – AIG Property Casualty Key Insurance Risks – Catastrophe Exposures. 







 Insurance liabilities are difficult to predict and may exceed the related reserves for losses and loss
expenses. We regularly review the adequacy of the established Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment 
 <p
align="right" style="font-family:arial;margin-top:12pt;margin-bottom:-10.0pt;border-top:#01415B dotted 1.0pt;padding-top:6.0pt;padding-left:0pt;padding-right:30.0pt;">
AIG 2012 Form 10-K

33




 

<A
HREF="#bg10701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

expense
and conduct extensive analyses of our reserves during the year. Our loss reserves, however, may develop adversely. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a
complex process, particularly for long-tail casualty lines of business. These include, but are not limited to, general liability, commercial automobile liability, environmental, workers'
compensation, excess casualty and crisis management coverages, insurance and risk management programs for large corporate customers and other customized structured insurance products, as well as
excess and umbrella liability, D&O and products liability. 

While
we use a number of analytical reserve development techniques to project future loss development, reserves may be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors
that were relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors could be due to difficulties in predicting changes, such as changes in inflation, the
judicial environment, or other social or economic factors affecting claims. Any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be identified for an extended period of time
after we record the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year or number of years. For a further discussion of our loss reserves, see Item 7. MD&A – Results of
Operations – Segment Results – AIG Property Casualty Operations – Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense and Critical
Accounting Estimates – Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense (AIG Property Casualty and Mortgage Guaranty). 







Reinsurance may not be available or affordable and may not be adequate to protect us against
losses. Our subsidiaries are major purchasers of reinsurance and we use reinsurance as part of our overall risk management strategy. While
reinsurance does not discharge our subsidiaries from their obligation to pay claims for losses insured under our policies, it does make the reinsurer liable to them for the reinsured portion of the
risk. For this reason, reinsurance is an important risk management tool to manage transaction and insurance line risk retention and to mitigate losses from catastrophes. Market conditions beyond our
control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. For example, reinsurance may be more difficult or costly to obtain after a year with a large number of major catastrophes. As a result, we
may, at certain times, be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms. In that case, we would have to accept an increase
in exposure risk, reduce the amount of business written by our subsidiaries or seek alternatives. Additionally, we are exposed to credit risk with respect to our subsidiaries' reinsurers to the extent
the reinsurance receivable is not secured by collateral or does not benefit from other credit enhancements. We also bear the risk that a reinsurer may be unwilling to pay amounts we have recorded as
reinsurance recoverables for any reason, including that (i) the terms of the reinsurance contract do not reflect the intent of the parties of the contract, (ii) the terms of the
contract cannot be legally enforced, (iii) the terms of the contract are interpreted by a court differently than intended, (iv) the reinsurance transaction performs differently than we
anticipated due to a flawed design of the reinsurance structure, terms or conditions, or (v) a change in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation of the laws and regulations, materially
impacts a reinsurance transaction. The insolvency of one or more of our reinsurers, or inability or unwillingness to make timely payments under the terms of our agreements, could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. For additional information on our reinsurance, see Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management –
Insurance Operations Risks – AIG Property Casualty Key Insurance Risks – Reinsurance Recoverables. 

 






LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL AND CREDIT




 







 Our internal sources of liquidity may be insufficient to meet our needs.
We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt, maturing debt obligations and to meet any statutory capital requirements of our subsidiaries. If our liquidity is insufficient to
meet our needs, we may at the time need to have recourse to third-party financing, external capital markets or other sources of liquidity, which may not be available or could be prohibitively
expensive. The availability and cost of any additional financing at any given time depends on a variety of factors, including general market conditions, the volume of trading activities, the overall
availability of credit, regulatory actions and our credit ratings and credit capacity. It is also possible that, as a result of such recourse to external financing, customers, lenders or investors
could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Disruptions, volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets, and downgrades in our
credit ratings, may limit our ability to access external capital markets at times and on terms favorable to us to meet our capital and liquidity needs or prevent our accessing the external capital
markets or other financing sources. For a further discussion of our liquidity, see Item 7. MD&A – Liquidity and Capital Resources. 
 <p
align="left" style="font-family:arial;margin-top:12pt;margin-bottom:-10.0pt;border-top:#01415B dotted 1.0pt;padding-top:6.0pt;padding-left:30.0pt;padding-right:0pt;">
AIG 2012 Form 10-K

34




 

<A
HREF="#bg10701a_main_toc">Table of Contents







A downgrade in our
credit ratings could require us to post additional collateral and result in the termination of derivative transactions. Credit ratings estimate a
company's ability to meet its obligations and may directly affect the cost and availability of financing. A downgrade of our long-term debt ratings by the major rating agencies would
require us to post additional collateral payments related to derivative transactions to which we are a party, and could permit the termination of these derivative transactions. This could adversely
affect our business, our consolidated results of operations in a reporting period or our liquidity. In the event of further downgrades of two notches to our long-term senior debt ratings,
AIG would be required to post additional collateral of $226 million, and certain of our counterparties would be permitted to elect early termination of contracts. 







AIG Parent's ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited. As
a holding company, AIG Parent depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund payments due on its obligations, including its outstanding debt. The majority of our
investments are held by our regulated subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may be limited in their ability to make dividend payments or advance funds to AIG Parent in the future because of the need to
support their own capital levels or because of regulatory limits. 







AIG Parent's ability to support our subsidiaries is limited. AIG Parent
has in the past and expects to continue to provide capital to our subsidiaries as necessary to maintain regulatory capital ratios, comply with rating agency requirements and meet unexpected cash flow
obligations, in some cases under support or capital maintenance agreements. AIG Parent has entered into capital maintenance agreements with certain of our insurance subsidiaries that will require it
to contribute capital if specific capital levels are breached. If AIG Parent is unable to satisfy a capital need of a subsidiary, the subsidiary could become insolvent or, in certain cases, could be
seized by its regulator. 







Our subsidiaries may not be able to generate cash to meet their needs due to the illiquidity of some of their
investments. Our subsidiaries have investments in certain securities that may be illiquid, including certain fixed income securities and certain
structured securities, private company securities, private equity funds and hedge funds, mortgage loans, finance receivables and real estate. Collectively, investments in these securities had a fair
value of $49 billion at December 31, 2012. The decline in the U.S. real estate markets and tight credit markets have also materially adversely affected the liquidity of our other
securities portfolios, including our residential and commercial mortgage-related securities and investment portfolios. In the event additional liquidity is required by one or more of our subsidiaries
and AIG Parent is unable to provide it, it may be difficult for these subsidiaries to generate additional liquidity by selling, pledging or otherwise monetizing these less liquid investments. 








 A downgrade in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance companies could prevent them from writing new business
and retaining customers and business. Insurer Financial Strength (IFS) ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of
insurance companies. IFS ratings measure an insurance company's ability to meet its obligations to contract holders and policyholders. High ratings help maintain public confidence in a company's
products, facilitate marketing of products and enhance its competitive position. Downgrades of the IFS ratings of our insurance companies could prevent these companies from selling, or make it more
difficult for them to succeed in selling, products and services, or result in increased policy cancellations, termination of assumed reinsurance contracts, or return of premiums. Under credit rating
agency policies concerning the relationship between parent and subsidiary ratings, a downgrade in AIG Parent's credit ratings could result in a downgrade of the IFS ratings of our insurance
subsidiaries. 

 






BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS




 







 Interest rate fluctuations, increased surrenders, investment returns and other events may require our subsidiaries to
accelerate the amortization of DAC, and record additional liabilities for future policy benefits. DAC represents deferred costs that are incremental
and directly related to the successful acquisition of new business or renewal of existing business. The amortization of DAC associated with our Life and Retirement Services business is affected by
factors that include current and expected interest rate fluctuations, surrender rates and investment returns. Changes in these factors may require our subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of
DAC and record additional liabilities for future policy benefits. For example, when interest rates rise, customers may buy a competitor's insurance products with higher anticipated returns. This can
lead to an increase in policy loans, policy surrenders, withdrawals of life insurance policies, and withdrawals of annuity contracts, causing an acceleration of the amortization of DAC. If DAC
amortization exceeds the fees we earn upon surrender or withdrawals, our results of operations could be negatively affected. 
 <p
align="right" style="font-family:arial;margin-top:12pt;margin-bottom:-10.0pt;border-top:#01415B dotted 1.0pt;padding-top:6.0pt;padding-left:0pt;padding-right:30.0pt;">
AIG 2012 Form 10-K

35




 

<A
HREF="#bg10701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

We
regularly review DAC for insurance-oriented, investment-oriented, and retirement services products to assess recoverability. This review involves estimating the future profitability of
in-force business and requires significant management judgment. If future profitability is substantially lower than estimated, we could be required to accelerate DAC amortization. 


Periodically,
we evaluate the estimates used in establishing liabilities for future policy benefits for life and A&H insurance contracts, which include liabilities for certain payout annuities. We
evaluate these estimates against actual experience and make adjustments based on judgments about mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses, and investment returns, including the interest
rate environment and net realized capital gains (losses). If actual experience or estimates result in changes to projected future losses on long duration insurance contracts, we may be required to
record additional liabilities through a charge to policyholder benefit expense, which could
negatively affect our results of operations. For further discussion of DAC and future policy benefits, see Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates and Notes 2, 10
and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 







 Certain of our products offer guarantees that may decrease our earnings and increase the volatility of our
results. We offer variable annuity products that guarantee a certain level of benefits, such as guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB), guaranteed
minimum income benefits (GMIB), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum account value benefits (GMAV). At December 31, 2012, our net liabilities associated with
these guaranteed benefits were $1.4 billion. We use reinsurance combined with derivative instruments to mitigate our exposure to these liabilities. While we believe that our actions have
mitigated the risks related to guaranteed benefits, our exposure is not fully hedged; in addition, we remain liable if reinsurers or counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. Finally, downturns
in equity markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the liabilities associated with the guaranteed benefits, reducing our net income and
shareholders' equity. 







Indemnity claims could be made against us in connection with divested
businesses. We have provided financial guarantees and indemnities in connection with the businesses we have sold, including ALICO, as described in
greater detail in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. While we do not currently believe the claims under these indemnities will be material, it is possible that significant
indemnity claims could be made against us. If such a claim or claims were successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. See Note 16
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on these financial guarantees and indemnities. 







Our foreign operations expose us to risks that may affect our operations.
We provide insurance, investment and other financial products and services to both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries. A substantial portion of our AIG Property Casualty business is
conducted outside the United States, and we intend to continue to grow this business. Operations outside the United States, particularly in developing nations, may be affected by regional economic
downturns, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, political upheaval, nationalization and other restrictive government actions, which could also affect our other operations. 

The
degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG Parent, as well as its subsidiaries operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory
requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Consequently, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future
business in some of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our results of operations depending on the magnitude of the event and
our financial exposure at that time in that country. 







 Significant conditions precedent must be satisfied in order to complete the sale of the common stock of ILFC on the agreed
terms. Under the terms of the share purchase agreement (Share Purchase Agreement) we entered into for the sale of up to 90% of the common stock of
ILFC (the ILFC Transaction) to an entity (the Purchaser) formed on behalf of an investor group, consummation of the ILFC Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions
precedent, such as certain customary conditions and other closing conditions, including the receipt of approvals or non-disapprovals from certain regulatory bodies, including, among
others:


•the People's Republic of China National Development and Reform Commission,  
•the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), and 
•other antitrust and regulatory agencies, 
 <p
align="left" style="font-family:arial;margin-top:12pt;margin-bottom:-10.0pt;border-top:#01415B dotted 1.0pt;padding-top:6.0pt;padding-left:30.0pt;padding-right:0pt;">
AIG 2012 Form 10-K

36




 

<A
HREF="#bg10701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

in
some cases, without the imposition on either party by such agencies of conditions that would qualify as burdensome. 

Any
relevant regulatory body may refuse its approval or may seek to make its approval subject to compliance by ILFC or the Purchaser with unanticipated or onerous conditions. Even if approval is not
required, the regulator may impose requirements on ILFC subsequent to consummation of the ILFC Transaction. We or the Purchaser may not agree to such conditions or requirements and may have a
contractual right to terminate the Share Purchase Agreement. 

In
addition to other customary termination events, the Share Purchase Agreement allows termination (i) by any party if the closing has not occurred on or before May 15, 2013, subject to
an extension to June 17, 2013 if certain conditions are met or (ii) by us if Purchaser has not paid the required deposit into an escrow account upon the later of March 15, 2013
and ten days after approval of the transaction by CFIUS. 


Because
of the closing conditions and termination rights applicable to the ILFC Transaction, completion of the ILFC Transaction is not assured or may be delayed or, even if the transaction is
completed, the terms of the sale may need to be significantly restructured. 







Failure to complete the ILFC Transaction could negatively affect our businesses and financial
results. If the ILFC Transaction is not completed, the ongoing businesses of ILFC and AIG may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several
risks, including the following:


•alternative plans to dispose of ILFC, such as through a sale or initial public offering, may be difficult to structure and
may take extended periods of time to implement, depending on, among other things, the global economic and regulatory environments and general market conditions; 
•we may not be able to realize equivalent or greater value for ILFC under an alternative asset monetization plan which
could impact the carrying values of ILFC's assets and liabilities; 
•we will have incurred certain significant costs relating to the ILFC Transaction without receiving the benefits of the
ILFC Transaction, and may incur further significant costs if an alternative monetization plan is undertaken; 
•negative customer perception could adversely affect ILFC's ability to compete for, maintain or win new and existing
business in the marketplace; and 
•potential further diversion of our management's time and attention. 







Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations or financial
condition. We are party to numerous legal proceedings, including securities class actions and regulatory and governmental investigations. Due to the
nature of these proceedings, the lack of precise damage claims and the type of claims we are subject to, we cannot currently quantify our ultimate or maximum liability for these actions. Developments
in these unresolved matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. For a discussion of
these unresolved matters, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 







 If we are unable to maintain the availability of our electronic data systems and safeguard the security of our data, our
ability to conduct business may be compromised, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. We use
computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer, employee, and company data and information. Some of these systems in turn, rely upon third-party systems. Our business is highly
dependent on our ability to access these systems to perform necessary business functions, including providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing
and paying claims, administering variable annuity products and mutual funds, providing customer support and managing our investment portfolios. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability
to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a natural disaster,
a computer virus, a terrorist attack or other disruption inside or outside the U.S., our systems may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business
partners for an extended period of time, and our employees may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled or destroyed. Our systems could also
be subject to unauthorized access, such as physical or electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other global companies, we have, from time to time, experienced threats to our
data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, 
 <p
align="right" style="font-family:arial;margin-top:12pt;margin-bottom:-10.0pt;border-top:#01415B dotted 1.0pt;padding-top:6.0pt;padding-left:0pt;padding-right:30.0pt;">
AIG 2012 Form 10-K

37




 

<A
HREF="#bg10701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

unauthorized
access, systems failures and disruptions. AIG maintains cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may not cover all costs associated with the consequences of personal, confidential or
proprietary information being compromised. In some cases, such unauthorized access may not be immediately detected. This may impede or interrupt our business operations and could adversely affect our
consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 

In
addition, we routinely transmit, receive and store personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. Although we attempt to keep such information confidential,
we may be unable to do so in all events, especially with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have or use appropriate controls to protect
confidential information. Furthermore, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with laws and regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the European Union or other
jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy and security of the information of clients, employees or others. The compromise of personal,
confidential or proprietary information could result in remediation costs, legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. 

 






BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS OF ILFC PRIOR TO COMPLETION OF THE ILFC TRANSACTION



 







We will be subject to the following risks until we complete the ILFC Transaction:  







Our aircraft leasing business depends on lease revenues and exposes us to the risk of lessee
nonperformance. A decrease in ILFC's customers' ability to meet their obligations to ILFC under their leases may negatively affect our business,
results of operations and cash flows. 







ILFC's aircraft may become obsolete over time. Aircraft are
long-lived assets requiring long lead times to develop and manufacture. Particular models and types of aircraft may become obsolete and less in demand over time, when newer, more advanced
and efficient aircraft or aircraft engines are manufactured. This life cycle, however, can be shortened by world events, government regulation or customer preferences. As aircraft in ILFC's fleet
approach obsolescence, demand for particular models and types may decrease. This may result in declining lease rates, losses on sales, impairment charges or fair value adjustments and may adversely
affect ILFC's business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 







The residual value of ILFC's aircraft is subject to a number of risks and
uncertainties. Technological developments, macro-economic conditions, availability and cost of funding for aviation, and the overall health of the
airline industry impact the residual values of ILFC's aircraft. If challenging economic conditions persist for extended periods, the residual values of ILFC's aircraft could be negatively impacted,
which could result in future impairments. 

 






COMPETITION AND EMPLOYEES




 







 We face intense competition in each of our businesses. Our businesses
operate in highly competitive
environments, both domestically and overseas. Our principal competitors are other large multinational insurance organizations, as well as banks, investment banks and other non-bank
financial institutions. The insurance industry in particular is highly competitive. Within the U.S., AIG Property Casualty subsidiaries compete with approximately 3,300 other stock companies,
specialty insurance organizations, mutual insurance companies and other underwriting organizations. AIG Life and Retirement subsidiaries compete in the U.S. with approximately 1,800 life insurance
companies and other participants in related financial services fields. Overseas, our subsidiaries compete for business with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers and with global
insurance groups and local companies. 

The
past reduction of our credit ratings and the lingering effects of AIG's negative publicity have made, and may continue to make, it more difficult to compete to retain existing customers and to
maintain our historical levels of business with existing customers and counterparties. General insurance and life insurance companies compete through a combination of risk acceptance criteria, product
pricing, and terms and conditions. Retirement services companies compete through crediting rates and the issuance of guaranteed benefits. A decline in our position as to any one or more of these
factors could adversely affect our profitability. 
 <p
align="left" style="font-family:arial;margin-top:12pt;margin-bottom:-10.0pt;border-top:#01415B dotted 1.0pt;padding-top:6.0pt;padding-left:30.0pt;padding-right:0pt;">
AIG 2012 Form 10-K

38






<A
NAME="page_cm10701_1_39"> 




































 
Table of Contents 







Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people
we need to support our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Due to the intense competition
in our industry for key employees with demonstrated ability, we may be unable to hire or retain such employees. Losing any of our key people also could have a material adverse effect on our operations
given their skills, knowledge of our business, years of industry experience and the potential difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees. Our results of operations and financial
condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining key employees. 







Mr. Benmosche may be unable to continue to provide services to AIG due to his
health. Robert Benmosche, our President and Chief Executive Officer, was diagnosed with cancer and has been undergoing treatment for his disease. He
continues to fulfill all of his responsibilities and has stated his desire to continue in such roles beyond 2013. However, his condition may change and prevent him from continuing to perform these
roles. 







 Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in significant
losses. There have been a number of cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years and we
run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. Instances of fraud, illegal acts, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, or failure to comply
with regulatory requirements or our internal policies may result in losses. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the controls that we have in place to prevent and
detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. 

 






REGULATION



 







Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may affect our operations, increase our insurance subsidiary
capital requirements or reduce our profitability. Our operations generally, and our insurance subsidiaries, in particular, are subject to extensive
supervision and regulation by national authorities and by the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of our business and financial
condition. The primary purpose of insurance regulation is the protection of our insurance contract holders, and not our investors. The extent of domestic regulation varies, but generally is governed
by state statutes. These statutes delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to state insurance departments. 

We
strive to maintain all required licenses and approvals. However, our businesses may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations. The relevant authority's
interpretation of the laws and regulations also may change from time to time. Regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not
have the required licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, these authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our
activities or impose substantial fines. Further, insurance regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to issue orders of supervision, which permit them to supervise the business and
operations of an insurance company. 

In
the U.S., the risk based capital (RBC) formula is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business. Virtually every state has
adopted, in substantial part, the RBC Model Law promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), which specifies the regulatory actions the insurance regulator may take if an
insurer's RBC calculations fall below specific thresholds. Those actions range from requiring an insurer to submit a plan describing how it would regain a specified RBC ratio, to a mandatory
regulatory takeover of the company. 

The
degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG Parent, as well as its subsidiaries operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory
requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business
in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, depending on
the magnitude of the event and our financial exposure at that time in that country. 







Our status as a savings and loan holding company and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation, either or both of which may materially and adversely affect our businesses, results of
operations and cash flows. On July 21, 2010, Dodd-Frank, which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial
services in the United States, was signed into law. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly created government agencies and bodies 
 <p
align="right" style="font-family:arial;margin-top:12pt;margin-bottom:-10.0pt;border-top:#01415B dotted 1.0pt;padding-top:6.0pt;padding-left:0pt;padding-right:30.0pt;">
AIG 2012 Form 10-K

39




 

<A
HREF="#bg10701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

to
promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. We cannot predict with certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately
adopted or how or whether Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations or cash flows, or require us to raise additional capital. 

We
are regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) and subject to its examination, supervision and enforcement authority and reporting requirements as a savings and loan
holding company (SLHC). The FRB, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have proposed revised minimum leverage and risk-based capital
requirements that would apply to all bank holding companies and SLHCs, as well as to insured depository institutions, such as AIG Federal Savings Bank. As a result of our regulation by the FRB as an
SLHC:


•The FRB exercises general supervisory authority over us. 
•The FRB, as a prudential matter, may limit our ability to pay dividends and purchase shares of AIG Common Stock.  
•The FRB is required to impose minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements on us that are not less
than those applicable to insured depository institutions. 

In
addition, under Dodd-Frank we may separately become subject to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority of the FRB as a nonbank systemically important financial
institution (SIFI). In October 2012, we received a notice that we are under consideration by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (Council) for a proposed determination that we are a SIFI. The
notice stated that we will be reviewed in Stage 3 of the SIFI determination process described in the Council's interpretive guidance for nonbank financial company determinations. If we are
designated as a SIFI:


•We would become subject to stress tests to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, we have the capital necessary to
absorb losses due to adverse economic conditions. 
•We would be subject to stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to
risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements, management interlock prohibitions and a requirement to maintain a plan for
rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress. 
•We would become subject to a new early remediation regime process to be administered by the FRB.  
•If we are designated as a SIFI and determined to be a "grave threat" to U.S. financial
stability:
•We would be required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15:1.  
•The FRB may:  



•limit our ability to merge with, acquire, consolidate with, or become affiliated with another company;  
•restrict our ability to offer specified financial products;   
•require us to terminate specified activities;   
•impose conditions on how we conduct our activities; or   
•with approval of the Council, and a determination that the foregoing actions are inadequate to mitigate a threat to U.S.
financial stability, require us to sell or otherwise transfer assets or off-balance-sheet items to unaffiliated entities. 



In
addition, the regulations applicable to SIFIs and to SLHCs, when all have been adopted as final rules, may differ materially from each other. 

See
Item 1. Business – Regulation for further discussion of this potential regulation. 

Further,
if we continue to control AIG Federal Savings Bank or another insured depository institution, as of July 21, 2014, we will be required to conform to the "Volcker Rule", which prohibits
"proprietary trading" and the sponsoring or investing in "covered funds". The term "covered funds" includes hedge, private equity or similar funds and, in certain cases, issuers of asset backed
securities if such securities have equity-like characteristics. These prohibitions could have a substantial impact on our investment portfolios as they are currently managed. The Volcker
Rule, as 
 <p
align="left" style="font-family:arial;margin-top:12pt;margin-bottom:-10.0pt;border-top:#01415B dotted 1.0pt;padding-top:6.0pt;padding-left:30.0pt;padding-right:0pt;">
AIG 2012 Form 10-K

40




 

<A
HREF="#bg10701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

proposed,
contains an exemption for proprietary trading by insurance companies for their general account, but the final breadth and scope of this exemption cannot be predicted. Even if we no longer
controlled an insured depository institution, Dodd-Frank authorizes the FRB to subject SIFIs to additional capital and quantitative limitations if they engage in activities prohibited for
depository institutions by the Volcker Rule. 

In
addition, Dodd-Frank establishes a new framework for regulation of over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives under which we may have to provide or increase
collateral under the terms of bilateral agreements with derivatives counterparties. These additional obligations to post collateral or the costs of assignment, termination or obtaining alternative
credit could have a material adverse effect on us. This new framework may also increase the cost of conducting a hedging program or have other effects materially adverse to us. 

We
cannot predict the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted, the level and magnitude of supervision we may become subject to, or how Dodd-Frank and such regulations will
affect the financial markets generally or our businesses, results of operations or cash flows. It is possible that the regulations adopted under Dodd-Frank and our regulation by the FRB as
an SLHC could significantly alter our business practices, require us to raise additional capital, impose burdensome and costly requirements and additional costs. Some of the regulations may also
affect the perceptions of regulators, customers, counterparties, creditors or investors about our financial strength and could potentially affect our financing costs. 







The USA PATRIOT Act, the Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar laws that apply to us may expose us to significant
penalties. The operations of our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including, in some cases, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which
require companies to know certain information about their clients and to monitor their transactions for suspicious activities. Also, the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control
administers regulations requiring U.S. persons to refrain from doing business, or allowing their clients to do business through them, with certain organizations or individuals on a prohibited list
maintained by the U.S. government or with certain countries. The United Kingdom, the European Union and other jurisdictions maintain similar laws and regulations. Although we have instituted
compliance programs to address these requirements, there are inherent risks in global transactions. 







Attempts to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Actuarial Guideline AXXX may fail in whole or in part resulting
in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The NAIC Model Regulation "Valuation of Life Insurance Policies"
("Regulation XXX") requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and universal life policies with
secondary guarantees. In addition, NAIC Actuarial Guideline 38 (AXXX) (Guideline AXXX) clarifies the application of Regulation XXX as to certain universal life insurance policies with
secondary guarantees. The application of Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX involves numerous interpretations. At times, there may be differences of opinion between management and state
insurance departments about the application of these and other actuarial guidelines. Consequently, a state insurance regulator may require greater reserves to support insurance liabilities than
management has estimated. 

We
have implemented intercompany reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the capital impact of Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX. In so doing, we focus on identifying
cost-effective opportunities to manage our intercompany reinsurance transactions, particularly with respect to certain redundant statutory reserve requirements on Regulation XXX and
Guideline AXXX reserves. Our efforts have included the use of an intercompany reinsurance arrangement for Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX reserves and the use of letters of credit to support
the reinsurance provided by our affiliated reinsurance subsidiary. All of these letters of credit are due to mature on December 31, 2015. The reinsurance and capital management actions we have
taken may not be sufficient to offset regulatory, rating agency or other requirements. In that case, we could be required to increase statutory reserves or incur higher operating and/or tax costs. If
we are unable to implement actions to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX or Guideline AXXX on future sales of term and universal life insurance products, we may reduce the sales of these
products or incur higher operating costs or it may impact our sales of these products. 







New regulations promulgated from time to time may affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and
ability to compete effectively. Legislators and regulators may periodically consider various proposals that may affect the profitability of certain
of our businesses. New regulations may even affect our ability to conduct certain businesses at all, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial
institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions. These proposals could also impose additional taxes on a limited subset of financial institutions and insurance companies
(either based on size, activities, 
 <p
align="right" style="font-family:arial;margin-top:12pt;margin-bottom:-10.0pt;border-top:#01415B dotted 1.0pt;padding-top:6.0pt;padding-left:0pt;padding-right:30.0pt;">
AIG 2012 Form 10-K

41




 


<A
HREF="#bg10701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

geography,
government support or other criteria). It is uncertain whether and how these and other such proposals would apply to us or our competitors or how they could impact our consolidated results
of operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively. 







An "ownership change" could limit our ability to utilize tax losses and credits carryforwards to offset future taxable
income. As of December 31, 2012, we had a U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately $40.9 billion,
$17.3 billion in capital loss carryforwards and $5.5 billion in foreign tax credits (tax losses and credits carryforwards). Our ability to use such tax attributes to offset future
taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an "ownership change" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an
ownership change will occur when the percentage of AIG Parent's ownership (by value) of one or more "5-percent shareholders" (as defined in the Code) has increased by more than
50 percent over the lowest percentage owned by such shareholders at any time during the prior three years (calculated on a rolling basis). An entity that experiences an ownership change
generally will be subject to an annual limitation on its pre-ownership change tax losses and credits carryforwards equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the
ownership change, multiplied by the long-term, tax-exempt rate posted monthly by the IRS (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to
the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation on our ability to utilize tax losses and credits carryforwards arising from an ownership change under Section 382
would depend on the value of our equity at the time of any ownership change. If we were to experience an "ownership change", it is possible that a significant portion of our tax losses and credits
carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them to offset future taxable income. 

On
March 9, 2011, our Board of Directors adopted a Tax Asset Protection Plan (the Plan) to help protect these tax losses and credits carryforwards. At our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders,
shareholders ratified the Plan. At the same time, shareholders adopted a protective amendment to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which is designed to prevent certain transfers of AIG Common
Stock that could result in an "ownership change". The Plan is designed to reduce the likelihood of an "ownership change" by (i) discouraging any person or group from becoming a
4.99 percent shareholder and (ii) discouraging any existing 4.99 percent shareholder from acquiring additional shares of AIG Common Stock. The Protective Amendment generally
restricts any transfer of AIG Common Stock that would (i) increase the ownership by any person to 4.99 percent or more of AIG stock then outstanding or (ii) increase the
percentage of AIG stock owned by a Five Percent Stockholder (as defined in the Plan). Despite the intentions of the Plan and the Protective Amendment to deter and prevent an "ownership change", such
an event may still occur. In addition, the Plan and the Protective Amendment may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us, and may discourage open market purchases of AIG Common Stock
or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for AIG Common Stock. Accordingly, the Plan and the Protective Amendment may limit a shareholder's ability to realize a premium over the market
price of AIG Common Stock in connection with any stock transaction. 







Changes in tax laws could increase our corporate taxes, reduce our deferred tax assets or make some of our products less
attractive to consumers. Changes in tax laws or their interpretation could negatively impact our business or results. Some proposed changes could
have the effect of increasing our effective tax rate by reducing deductions or increasing income inclusions, such as by limiting rules that allow for deferral of tax on certain foreign insurance
income. Conversely, other changes, such as lowering the U.S. federal corporate tax rate discussed recently in the context of tax reform, could reduce the value of our deferred tax assets. In addition,
changes in the way foreign taxes can be credited against U.S. taxes, methods for allocating interest expense, the ways insurance companies calculate and deduct reserves for tax purposes, and
impositions of new or changed premium, value added and other indirect taxes could increase our tax expense, thereby reducing earnings. 

In
addition to proposing to change the taxation of corporations in general and insurance companies in particular, the Executive Branch of the Federal Government and Congress have recently considered
proposals that could increase taxes on owners of insurance products. For example, there are proposals that would limit the deferral of tax on income from life and annuity contracts relative to other
investment products. These changes could reduce demand in the U.S. for life insurance and annuity contracts, or cause consumers to shift from these contracts to other investments, which would reduce
our income due to lower sales of these products or potential increased surrenders of in-force business. 

Governments'
need for additional revenue makes it likely that there will be continued proposals to change tax rules in ways that would reduce our earnings. However, it remains difficult to predict
whether or when there will be any tax law changes having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 
 <p
align="left" style="font-family:arial;margin-top:12pt;margin-bottom:-10.0pt;border-top:#01415B dotted 1.0pt;padding-top:6.0pt;padding-left:30.0pt;padding-right:0pt;">
AIG 2012 Form 10-K

42




 

<A
HREF="#bg10701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 







 ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS



 







Actual experience may differ from management's estimates used in the preparation of financial
statements. Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which requires the application of
accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. The accounting policies that we consider most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore may be
viewed as critical accounting estimates, are described in Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions, some of
which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. These estimates are based on judgment, current facts and circumstances, and, when applicable, internally developed models. Therefore, actual
results could differ from these estimates, possibly in the near term, and could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 







Our ability to achieve our long-term goals, including return on equity (ROE) and earnings per share (EPS), is
based on significant assumptions, and our actual results may differ, possibly materially, from these goals. In setting our long-term
goals for ROE and EPS, described in Part I, Item 2. MD&A – Long-Term Aspirational Goals in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended March 31, 2011, we made significant assumptions that include, among other things:


•the general conditions of the markets in which we operate; 
•revenues and combined ratios of our subsidiaries; 
•investment yields; 
•our subsidiaries' capacity to distribute dividends to AIG Parent; 
•our ability to deploy capital towards share purchases, dividend payments, acquisitions or organic growth;  
•the impact of a change in our credit ratings on our ability to maintain financial leverage;  
•the exclusion of the reversal of the tax valuation allowance on shareholders' equity in calculating our
long-term ROE goal; 
•effectiveness of our cost rationalization measures; 
•regulatory approval of our planned actions (including share purchases, dividend payments or acquisitions);  
•the overall credit rating implications of our proposed strategic actions; and  
•general financial market and interest rate conditions. 

These
assumptions are not historical facts but instead represent our expectations about future events. Many of these events, by their nature, are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and
contingencies and are outside our control. It is very likely that actual events and results will differ from some or all of the assumptions we made. While we remain committed to our
long-term aspirational goals, our actual results are likely to differ from these aspirational goals and the difference may be material and adverse. 


The
aspirational goals and their underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements. Shareholders and other investors should not place undue reliance on any of these assumptions or aspirational
goals. We are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any obligation) to update or alter any assumptions, goals, projections or other related statements, whether written or oral, that may be
made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. See Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information for additional information about
forward-looking statements. 
 <p
align="right" style="font-family:arial;margin-top:12pt;margin-bottom:-10.0pt;border-top:#01415B dotted 1.0pt;padding-top:6.0pt;padding-left:0pt;padding-right:30.0pt;">
AIG 2012 Form 10-K

43






<A
NAME="page_cn10701_1_44"> 




































 
Table of Contents 

 






ITEM 1B