Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — Reinsurance; Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Risk Management — Insurance
    Risk Management — Reinsurance; and Note 1 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

 


    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K    13
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    



 



    Insurance
    Investment Operations


 


    A significant portion of AIG’s General Insurance and Life
    Insurance & Retirement Services revenues are derived
    from AIG’s insurance investment operations. The following
    table summarizes the investment results of the insurance
    operations:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    Annual Average Cash and Invested Assets


 


 


    Return on
    


 


 


    Return on
    


 




 


 


    Cash (including
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Average Cash
    


 


 


    Average
    


 




 


 


    short-term
    


 


 


    Invested
    


 


 


 


 


 


    and Invested
    


 


 


    Invested
    


 





    Years Ended December 31,



 


    investments)(a)


 


 


    Assets(a)


 


 


    Total


 


 


    Assets(b)


 


 


    Assets(c)


 




 


 


    (In millions)


 



 





    General Insurance:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    2008



 


    $


    9,766


 


 


    $


    111,435


 


 


    $


    121,201


 


 


 


    2.9


    %


 


 


    3.1


    %





    2007



 


 


    5,874


 


 


 


    117,050


 


 


 


    122,924


 


 


 


    5.0


 


 


 


    5.2


 





    2006



 


 


    3,201


 


 


 


    102,231


 


 


 


    105,432


 


 


 


    5.4


 


 


 


    5.6


 





    2005



 


 


    2,450


 


 


 


    86,211


 


 


 


    88,661


 


 


 


    4.5


 


 


 


    4.7


 





    2004



 


 


    2,012


 


 


 


    73,338


 


 


 


    75,350


 


 


 


    4.2


 


 


 


    4.4


 





    Life Insurance & Retirement Services:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    2008



 


    $


    29,278


 


 


    $


    385,980


 


 


    $


    415,258


 


 


 


    2.4


    %


 


 


    2.6


    %





    2007



 


 


    25,926


 


 


 


    423,743


 


 


 


    449,669


 


 


 


    5.0


 


 


 


    5.3


 





    2006



 


 


    13,698


 


 


 


    392,348


 


 


 


    406,046


 


 


 


    4.9


 


 


 


    5.1


 





    2005



 


 


    11,137


 


 


 


    356,839


 


 


 


    367,976


 


 


 


    5.1


 


 


 


    5.2


 





    2004



 


 


    7,737


 


 


 


    309,627


 


 


 


    317,364


 


 


 


    4.9


 


 


 


    5.1


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (a) 
    
    
    Including investment income due and accrued and real estate.
    Also, includes collateral assets invested under the securities
    lending program.




 




    
    
    



    
    (b) 
    
    
    Net investment income divided by the annual average sum of
    cash and invested assets.



 


    
    (c) 
    
    
    Net investment income divided by the annual average invested
    assets.




 


    AIG’s worldwide insurance investment policy places primary
    emphasis on investments in government and fixed income
    securities in all of its portfolios and, to a lesser extent,
    investments in high-yield bonds, common stocks, real estate,
    hedge funds and other alternative investments, in order to
    enhance returns on policyholders’ funds and generate net
    investment income. The ability to implement this policy is
    somewhat limited in certain territories as there may be a lack
    of attractive long-term investment opportunities or investment
    restrictions may be imposed by the local regulatory authorities.


 



    Financial
    Services Operations


 


    AIG’s Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified
    activities including aircraft leasing, capital markets, consumer
    finance and insurance premium finance. Together, the Aircraft
    Leasing, Capital Markets and Consumer Finance operations
    generate the majority of the revenues produced by the Financial
    Services operations. A.I. Credit also contributes to Financial
    Services results principally by providing insurance premium
    financing for both AIG’s policyholders and those of other
    insurers.


 



    Aircraft
    Leasing


 


    AIG’s Aircraft Leasing operations are the operations of
    ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new
    and used commercial jet aircraft to foreign and domestic
    airlines. Revenues also result from the remarketing of
    commercial jet aircraft for ILFC’s own account, and
    remarketing and fleet management services for airlines and
    financial institutions. See also Note 3 to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.


 



    Capital
    Markets


 


    Capital Markets is comprised of the operations of AIGFP, which
    engaged as principal in a wide variety of financial
    transactions, including standard and customized financial
    products involving commodities, credit,

 

 


    14    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    




    currencies, energy, equities and interest rates. AIGFP also
    invests in a diversified portfolio of securities and principal
    investments and engages in borrowing activities that involve
    issuing standard and structured notes and other securities and
    entering into guaranteed investment agreements (GIAs). Due to
    the extreme market conditions experienced in 2008, the
    downgrades of AIG’s credit ratings by the rating agencies,
    as well as AIG’s intent to refocus on its core businesses,
    AIGFP has begun to unwind its businesses and portfolios
    including those associated with credit protection written
    through credit default swaps on super senior risk tranches of
    diversified pools of loans and debt securities. See
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Outlook —
    Financial Services.


 



    Consumer
    Finance


 


    AIG’s Consumer Finance operations in North America are
    principally conducted through AGF. AGF derives most of its
    revenues from finance charges assessed on real estate loans,
    secured and unsecured non-real estate loans and retail sales
    finance receivables. In the second quarter of 2008, AGF ceased
    its wholesale originations (originations through mortgage
    brokers). In light of severe stress in the U.S. housing sector,
    AGF also closed 179 branch offices and reduced new loan
    originations in the fourth quarter of 2008.


 


    AIG’s foreign consumer finance operations are principally
    conducted through AIGCFG. AIGCFG operates primarily in emerging
    and developing markets. AIGCFG has operations in Argentina,
    China, Brazil, Hong Kong, Mexico, the Philippines, Poland,
    Taiwan, Thailand, India and Colombia. Through February 18,
    2009, AIGCFG had entered into contracts to sell certain of its
    operations in Taiwan, Thailand and the Philippines.


 



    Asset
    Management Operations


 


    AIG’s Asset Management operations comprise a wide variety
    of investment-related services and investment products. These
    services and products are offered to individuals, pension funds
    and institutions (including AIG subsidiaries) globally through
    AIG’s Spread-Based Investment business, Institutional Asset
    Management, and Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds business.
    Also included in Asset Management operations are the results of
    certain SunAmerica sponsored partnership investments.


 


    Revenues and operating income (loss) for Asset Management are
    affected by the general conditions in the equity and credit
    markets. In addition, net realized gains (losses) and
    performance fee (carried interest) revenues are contingent upon
    various fund closings, maturity levels, investment management
    performance and market conditions.


 



    Spread-Based
    Investment Business


 


    AIG’s Spread-Based Investment business includes the results
    of AIG’s proprietary spread-based investment operations,
    the Matched Investment Program (MIP) and the Guaranteed
    Investment Contracts (GIC), which the MIP replaced. Due to the
    extreme market conditions experienced in 2008 and the downgrades
    of AIG’s credit ratings, the MIP is currently in run-off.
    As previously disclosed, the GIC has been in run-off since the
    inception of the MIP in 2006. No additional debt issuances are
    expected for either the MIP or GIC for the foreseeable future.


 



    Institutional
    Asset Management


 


    AIG’s Institutional Asset Management business, conducted
    through AIG Investments, provides an array of investment
    products and services globally to institutional investors,
    pension funds, AIG subsidiaries, AIG affiliates and high net
    worth investors. These products include traditional equity and
    fixed maturity securities, and a wide range of real estate,
    private banking and alternative asset classes. Services include
    investment advisory and sub-advisory services, investment
    monitoring and transaction structuring. Within the equity and
    fixed maturity asset classes, AIG Investments offers various
    forms of structured investments. Within the alternative asset
    class, AIG Investments offers hedge and private equity funds and
    fund-of-funds, direct investments and distressed debt
    investments. AIG Global Real Estate provides a wide range of
    real estate investment, development and management services for
    AIG subsidiaries, as well as for third-party institutional
    investors, pension funds and high net worth investors. AIG
    Global Real Estate also maintains a proprietary real estate
    investment portfolio through various joint venture platforms.

 

 


    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K    15
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    



 


    AIG expects to divest its Institutional Asset Management
    businesses consisting of investment services that are offered to
    third-party clients. The businesses offered for sale exclude
    those investment services providing traditional fixed income and
    shorter duration asset and liability management for AIG’s
    insurance company subsidiaries. AIG expects to continue
    relationships with the divested businesses for other investment
    management services used by those subsidiaries.


 


    AIG Investments previously acquired alternative investments,
    primarily consisting of direct private equity and private equity
    fund investments, with the intention of “warehousing”
    such investments until the investment or economic benefit
    thereof could be transferred to a fund or other AIG-managed
    investment product. However, AIG Investments’ intended
    launch of such new products and funds has been indefinitely
    postponed. As a result of this decision, AIG will retain these
    investments with a net asset value of $1.1 billion at
    December 31, 2008 as proprietary investments until they can
    be divested. Unaffiliated investment commitments associated with
    these investments were approximately $720 million at
    December 31, 2008 and are expected to be funded over the
    next five years. AIG accounts for these investments based on the
    attributes of the investment using consolidation, equity or cost
    accounting methods, as appropriate.


 



    Other
    Operations


 


    AIG’s Other operations include interest expense,
    restructuring costs, expenses of corporate staff not
    attributable to specific business segments, expenses related to
    efforts to improve internal controls, corporate initiatives,
    certain compensation plan expenses and the settlement costs more
    fully described in Note 14(a) to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.


 


    Certain AIG subsidiaries provide insurance-related services such
    as adjusting claims and marketing specialized products. Several
    wholly owned foreign subsidiaries of AIG operating in countries
    or jurisdictions such as Ireland, Bermuda, Barbados and
    Gibraltar provide insurance and related administrative and back
    office services to affiliated and unaffiliated insurance and
    reinsurance companies, including captive insurance companies
    unaffiliated with AIG.


 


    For additional information regarding the business of AIG on a
    consolidated basis, the contributions made to AIG’s
    consolidated revenues and operating income and the assets held
    by its General Insurance, Life Insurance & Retirement
    Services, Financial Services and Asset Management operations and
    Other operations, see Selected Financial Data, Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations and Notes 1 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.


 



    Locations
    of Certain Assets


 


    As of December 31, 2008, approximately 39 percent of
    the consolidated assets of AIG were located in foreign countries
    (other than Canada), including $7.7 billion of cash and
    securities on deposit with foreign regulatory authorities.
    Foreign operations and assets held abroad may be adversely
    affected by political developments in foreign countries,
    including tax changes, nationalization and changes in regulatory
    policy, as well as by consequence of hostilities and unrest. The
    risks of such occurrences and their overall effect upon AIG vary
    from country to country and cannot easily be predicted. If
    expropriation or nationalization does occur, AIG’s policy
    is to take all appropriate measures to seek recovery of such
    assets. Certain of the countries in which AIG’s business is
    conducted have currency restrictions which generally cause a
    delay in a company’s ability to repatriate assets and
    profits. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors — Foreign
    Operations and Notes 1 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.


 



    Regulation


 


    AIG’s operations around the world are subject to regulation
    by many different types of regulatory authorities, including
    insurance, securities, investment advisory, banking and thrift
    regulators in the United States and abroad. AIG’s
    operations have become more diverse and consumer-oriented,
    increasing the scope of regulatory supervision and the
    possibility of intervention. In light of AIG’s liquidity
    problems in the third and fourth quarters of 2008, AIG and its
    regulated subsidiaries have been subject to intense review and
    supervision around the world. Regulators have taken significant
    steps to protect the businesses of the entities they regulate.
    These steps have included:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    restricting or prohibiting the payment of dividends to AIG;




 

 


    16    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    restricting or prohibiting other payments to AIG;




 



     
        • 

    
    requesting additional capital contributions by AIG;




 



     
        • 

    
    requesting that intercompany reinsurance reserves be covered by
    assets locally;




 



     
        • 

    
    restricting the business in which the subsidiaries may engage;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring pre-approval of all proposed transactions between the
    regulated subsidiaries and AIG or any with affiliates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring more frequent reporting, including with respect to
    capital and liquidity positions.





 


    These and other actions have made it challenging for AIG to
    continue to engage in business in the ordinary course. AIG does
    not expect these conditions to change until its financial
    situation stabilizes.


 


    In 1999, AIG became a unitary thrift holding company within the
    meaning of the Home Owners’ Loan Act (HOLA) when the Office
    of Thrift Supervision (OTS) granted AIG approval to organize AIG
    Federal Savings Bank. AIG is subject to OTS regulation,
    examination, supervision and reporting requirements. In
    addition, the OTS has enforcement authority over AIG and its
    subsidiaries. Among other things, this permits the OTS to
    restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a
    serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of
    AIG’s subsidiary savings association, AIG Federal Savings
    Bank.


 


    Under prior law, a unitary savings and loan holding company,
    such as AIG, was not restricted as to the types of business in
    which it could engage, provided that its savings association
    subsidiary continued to be a qualified thrift lender. The
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA) provides that no company
    may acquire control of an OTS regulated institution after
    May 4, 1999 unless it engages only in the financial
    activities permitted for financial holding companies under the
    law or for multiple savings and loan holding companies. The
    GLBA, however, grandfathered the unrestricted authority for
    activities with respect to a unitary savings and loan holding
    company existing prior to May 4, 1999, so long as its
    savings association subsidiary continues to be a qualified
    thrift lender under the HOLA. As a unitary savings and loan
    holding company whose application was pending as of May 4,
    1999, AIG is grandfathered under the GLBA and generally is not
    restricted under existing laws as to the types of business
    activities in which it may engage, provided that AIG Federal
    Savings Bank continues to be a qualified thrift lender under the
    HOLA.


 


    Certain states require registration and periodic reporting by
    insurance companies that are licensed in such states and are
    controlled by other corporations. Applicable legislation
    typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the
    corporation that controls the registered insurer and the other
    companies in the holding company system and prior approval of
    intercorporate services and transfers of assets (including in
    some instances payment of dividends by the insurance subsidiary)
    within the holding company system. AIG’s subsidiaries are
    registered under such legislation in those states that have such
    requirements.


 


    AIG’s insurance subsidiaries, in common with other
    insurers, are subject to regulation and supervision by the
    states and by other jurisdictions in which they do business.
    Within the United States, the method of such regulation varies
    but generally has its source in statutes that delegate
    regulatory and supervisory powers to an insurance official. The
    regulation and supervision relate primarily to approval of
    policy forms and rates, the standards of solvency that must be
    met and maintained, including risk-based capital, the licensing
    of insurers and their agents, the nature of and limitations on
    investments, restrictions on the size of risks that may be
    insured under a single policy, deposits of securities for the
    benefit of policyholders, requirements for acceptability of
    reinsurers, periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance
    companies, the form and content of reports of financial
    condition required to be filed, and reserves for unearned
    premiums, losses and other purposes. In general, such regulation
    is for the protection of policyholders rather than the equity
    owners of these companies.


 


    AIG has taken various steps to enhance the capital positions of
    the AIG Property Casualty Group companies. AIG entered into
    capital maintenance agreements with these companies that set
    forth procedures through which AIG will provide ongoing capital
    support. Also, in order to allow the AIG Property Casualty Group
    companies to record as an admitted asset at December 31,
    2008 certain reinsurance ceded to non-U.S. reinsurers
    (which has the effect of maintaining the level of the statutory
    surplus of such companies), AIG obtained and entered into
    reimbursement agreements for approximately $1.6 billion of
    letters of credit issued

 

 


    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K    17
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    




    by several commercial banks in favor of certain AIG Property
    Casualty Group companies and funded trusts totalling
    $2.9 billion. Finally, AIG has agreed to contribute capital
    to the AIG Property Casualty Group companies that hold shares of
    Transatlantic if, upon selling their Transatlantic shares they
    receive less than the shares’ statutory book value. The
    amount of the capital contribution would equal the difference
    between the aggregate statutory book value of the shares they
    sold and the aggregate cash proceeds they received in respect to
    those shares.


 


    In the U.S., the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) formula is designed to
    measure the adequacy of an insurer’s statutory surplus in
    relation to the risks inherent in its business. Thus,
    inadequately capitalized general and life insurance companies
    may be identified. The U.S. RBC formula develops a
    risk-adjusted target level of statutory surplus by applying
    certain factors to various asset, premium and reserve items.
    Higher factors are applied to more risky items and lower factors
    are applied to less risky items. Thus, the target level of
    statutory surplus varies not only as a result of the
    insurer’s size, but also based on the risk profile of the
    insurer’s operations.


 


    The RBC Model Law provides for four incremental levels of
    regulatory attention for insurers whose surplus is below the
    calculated RBC target. These levels of attention range in
    severity from requiring the insurer to submit a plan for
    corrective action to placing the insurer under regulatory
    control.


 


    The statutory surplus of each of AIG’s AIG Property
    Casualty Group and U.S.-based Life Insurance subsidiaries
    exceeded their RBC minimum required levels as of
    December 31, 2008.


 


    To the extent that any of AIG’s insurance entities would
    fall below prescribed levels of statutory surplus, it would be
    AIG’s intention to provide appropriate capital or other
    types of support to that entity.


 


    A substantial portion of AIG’s General Insurance business
    and a majority of its Life Insurance business is conducted in
    foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in
    foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as the
    underwriting companies operating in such jurisdictions, must
    satisfy local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by
    foreign authorities to AIG subsidiaries are subject to
    modification or revocation by such authorities, and these
    subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting business in
    certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. A
    change in control of AIG, such as that resulting from the
    issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock (described in
    Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), or
    changes in the ownership of a regulated subsidiary that may
    result from a disposition of the subsidiary or the repayment of
    outstanding amounts under the Fed Facility with subsidiary
    preferred equity, may also trigger change of control
    requirements in jurisdictions around the world and result in
    other regulatory actions.


 


    In addition to licensing requirements, AIG’s foreign
    operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with
    respect to currency, policy language and terms, advertising,
    amount and type of security deposits, amount and type of
    reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type
    of local investment and the share of profits to be returned to
    policyholders on participating policies. Some foreign countries
    regulate rates on various types of policies. Certain countries
    have established reinsurance institutions, wholly or partially
    owned by the local government, to which admitted insurers are
    obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms that may
    not always allow foreign insurers, including AIG subsidiaries,
    full compensation. In some countries, regulations governing
    constitution of technical reserves and remittance balances may
    hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets.


 


    See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Capital
    Resources and Liquidity — Regulation and Supervision
    and Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Competition


 


    AIG’s businesses operate in highly competitive
    environments, both domestically and overseas. Principal sources
    of competition are insurance companies, banks, investment banks
    and other non-bank financial institutions.


 


    The insurance industry in particular is highly competitive.
    Within the United States, AIG’s General Insurance
    subsidiaries compete with approximately 3,400 other stock
    companies, specialty insurance organizations, mutual companies
    and other underwriting organizations. AIG’s Life
    Insurance & Retirement Services subsidiaries compete
    in the United States with approximately 2,100 life insurance
    companies and other participants in related financial services
    fields. Overseas, AIG’s subsidiaries compete for business
    with the foreign insurance operations of large
    U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local
    companies in particular areas in which they are active.

 

 


    18    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    



 


    As a result of the reduction of the credit ratings of AIG and
    its subsidiaries, uncertainty relating to AIG’s financial
    condition and AIG’s asset disposition plan, AIG’s
    businesses have faced and continue to face intense competition
    to retain existing customers and to maintain business with
    existing customers and counterparties at historical levels.
    Further, AIG has been and continues to be at a significant
    disadvantage in soliciting new customers. AIG expects these
    difficult conditions to continue for the foreseeable future.


 


    Competition is also intense for key employees. The announced
    asset dispositions, decline in AIG’s common stock price and
    uncertainty surrounding AIG’s financial condition have
    adversely affected AIG’s ability to retain key employees
    and to attract new employees. While AIG has granted retention
    awards and taken other steps to retain its key employees, no
    assurance can be given that these actions will be successful.


 


    For a further discussion of the risks of AIG’s disadvantage
    in soliciting new customers and losing key employees, see
    item 1A. Risk Factors — Employees.


 



    Directors
    and Executive Officers of AIG


 


    All directors of AIG are elected for one-year terms at the
    annual meeting of shareholders. All executive officers are
    elected to one-year terms, but serve at the pleasure of the
    Board of Directors.


 


    Except as hereinafter noted, each of the executive officers has,
    for more than five years, occupied an executive position with
    AIG or companies that are now its subsidiaries. There are no
    arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and
    any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was
    elected to such position. Prior to joining AIG in September
    2008, Mr. Liddy served at the private equity investment
    firm of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Inc. during 2008.
    From January 1999 until his retirement in April 2008,
    Mr. Liddy served as Chairman of the Board of The Allstate
    Corporation (Allstate), the parent of Allstate Insurance
    Company. He also served as Chief Executive Officer of Allstate
    from January 1999 to December 2006 and President from January
    1995 to May 2005. Ms. Reynolds was President and Chief
    Executive Officer of Safeco Corporation from January 2006 to
    September 2008 and Chairman from May 2008 to September 2008.
    Previously, Ms. Reynolds served as President and Chief
    Executive Officer of AGL Resources, an Atlanta-based energy
    holding company, from 2000 to 2005 and Chairman from 2002 to
    2005. From January 2000 until joining AIG in May 2004,
    Dr. Frenkel served as Chairman of Merrill Lynch
    International, Inc. Prior to joining AIG in September 2006,
    Ms. Kelly served as Executive Vice President and General
    Counsel of MCI/WorldCom. Previously, she was Senior Vice
    President and General Counsel of Sears, Roebuck and Co. from
    1999 to 2003. From June 2004 until joining AIG in May 2007,
    Mr. Kaslow was a managing partner of QuanStar Group, LLC
    (an advisory services firm), and, from January 2002 until May
    2004, Mr. Kaslow was Senior Executive Vice President of
    Human Resources for Vivendi Universal (an entertainment and
    telecommunications company).

 

 


    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K    19
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    



 


    Set forth below is information concerning the directors and
    executive officers of AIG as of February 18, 2009.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


 


 


 


 


    Served as
    




 


 


 


 


 


 


    Director or
    





    Name



 



    Title



 



    Age



 



    Officer Since




 





    Stephen F. Bollenbach



 


    Director


 

 


    66

 


 


    2008





    Dennis D. Dammerman



 


    Director


 

 


    63

 


 


    2008





    Martin S. Feldstein



 


    Director


 

 


    69

 


 


    1987





    Edward M. Liddy



 


    Director and Chief Executive Officer


 

 


    63

 


 


    2008





    George L. Miles, Jr. 



 


    Director


 

 


    67

 


 


    2005





    Suzanne Nora Johnson



 


    Director


 

 


    51

 


 


    2008





    Morris W. Offit



 


    Director


 

 


    72

 


 


    2005





    James F. Orr III



 


    Director


 

 


    65

 


 


    2006





    Virginia M. Rometty



 


    Director


 

 


    50

 


 


    2006





    Michael H. Sutton



 


    Director


 

 


    67

 


 


    2005





    Edmund S. W. Tse



 


    Director, Senior Vice Chairman — Life Insurance


 

 


    70

 


 


    1996





    Richard H. Booth



 


    Vice Chairman — Transition Planning and Chief
    Administrative Officer


 

 


    61

 


 


    2008





    Jacob A. Frenkel



 


    Vice Chairman — Global Economic Strategies


 

 


    64

 


 


    2004





    Anastasia D. Kelly



 


    Vice Chairman — Legal, Human Resources, Corporate
    Communications and Corporate Affairs


 

 


    59

 


 


    2006





    Paula R. Reynolds



 


    Vice Chairman — Chief Restructuring Officer


 

 


    52

 


 


    2008





    Frank G. Wisner



 


    Vice Chairman — External Affairs


 

 


    70

 


 


    1997





    David L. Herzog



 


    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


 

 


    49

 


 


    2005





    Rodney O. Martin, Jr. 



 


    Executive Vice President — Life Insurance


 

 


    56

 


 


    2002





    Kristian P. Moor



 


    Executive Vice President — AIG Property Casualty Group


 

 


    49

 


 


    1998





    Win J. Neuger



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    59

 


 


    1995





    Nicholas C. Walsh



 


    Executive Vice President — Foreign General Insurance


 

 


    58

 


 


    2005





    Jay S. Wintrob



 


    Executive Vice President — Retirement Services


 

 


    51

 


 


    1999





    William N. Dooley



 


    Senior Vice President — Financial Services


 

 


    56

 


 


    1992





    Andrew J. Kaslow



 


    Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer


 

 


    58

 


 


    2007





    Robert E. Lewis



 


    Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer


 

 


    57

 


 


    1993





    Monika M. Machon



 


    Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer


 

 


    48

 


 


    2009





    Brian T. Schreiber



 


    Senior Vice President — Global Capital Planning and
    Analysis


 

 


    43

 


 


    2002







 

 


    20    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    



 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    AIG has been significantly and adversely affected by recent
    events in the marketplace as well as in its businesses, and is
    subject to significant risks, as discussed below. Many of these
    risks are interrelated and occur under similar business and
    economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may
    in turn cause the emergence, or exacerbate the effect, of
    others. Such a combination could materially increase the
    severity of the impact on AIG. As a result, should certain of
    these risks emerge, AIG may need additional support from the
    U.S. government. Without additional support from the
    U.S. government, in the future there could exist
    substantial doubt about AIG’s ability to continue as a
    going concern. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Consideration of AIG’s Ability to Continue as a Going
    Concern and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    for a further discussion.


 



    Proposed
    Transactions with the NY Fed and the United States
    Department of the Treasury


 


    No assurance can be given that the NY Fed and the
    United States Department of the Treasury will complete the
    proposed transactions with AIG.  AIG has entered
    into certain agreements in principle and announced intentions to
    enter into transactions with the NY Fed and the
    United States Department of the Treasury described below
    and in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
    These proposed transactions are designed to promote AIG’s
    restructuring. Neither agreements in principle nor the
    intentions are legally binding, and neither the NY Fed nor the
    United States Department of the Treasury is bound to
    proceed with the transactions or complete them on the terms
    currently contemplated. AIG, however, expects to be able to
    complete these transactions and others necessary to enable an
    orderly restructuring and understands that the NY Fed and
    the United States Department of the Treasury remain committed to
    providing AIG with continued support. If AIG is unable to
    complete one or more of the proposed transactions, AIG’s
    credit ratings may be downgraded and AIG may not be able to
    complete its restructuring plan. See Credit and Financial
    Strength Ratings for a discussion of the impact of a downgrade
    in AIG’s credit ratings.


 


    The proposed repayment of outstanding amounts under the Fed
    Facility with subsidiary preferred equity in holding companies
    for AIA and ALICO is complex and may need to be
    restructured.  The NY Fed’s proposed
    investment in two new holding companies for AIA and ALICO is
    unprecedented and it is possible that the terms of the exchange
    may change, perhaps materially.


 



    Business
    and Credit Environment


 


    AIG’s businesses, results of operations and financial
    condition have been materially and adversely affected by market
    conditions and will be materially affected by these conditions
    for the foreseeable future.  During 2008,
    worldwide economic conditions significantly deteriorated and the
    United States economy and most other major economies entered
    into a recession. It is difficult to predict how long global
    recessionary conditions will exist or the manner in which
    AIG’s markets, products, financial condition and businesses
    will be negatively affected in the future.


 


    The global financial crisis has resulted in a lack of liquidity,
    highly volatile markets, a steep depreciation in asset values
    across all classes, an erosion of investor confidence, a
    widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency in many
    markets and the collapse or merger of several prominent
    financial institutions. Difficult economic conditions also
    resulted in increased unemployment and a severe decline in
    business activity across a wide range of industries and regions.
    Global regulators, governments and central banks have taken a
    number of unprecedented steps to address these issues but these
    steps have so far failed to prevent financial markets from
    declining by a very substantial amount, both in percentage terms
    and in absolute terms. It is unclear whether these measures will
    be effective or, if effective, when markets will stabilize.


 


    AIG has been materially and adversely affected by these
    conditions and events in a number of ways, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the need to enter into transactions with the NY Fed and the
    United States Department of the Treasury, and to
    participate in generally available governmental programs
    addressing disruptions in financial markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    severe and continued declines in the valuation and performance
    of its investment portfolio across all asset classes, leading to
    decreased investment income, material unrealized and realized
    losses, including other-




 

 


    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K    21
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    






    
    
    



     
    

    
    than-temporary impairments, both of which decreased AIG’s
    shareholders’ equity and, to a lesser extent, the
    regulatory capital of its subsidiaries;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    significant credit losses due to the failure of, or governmental
    intervention with respect to, several prominent institutions;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairment of goodwill in its insurance and financial services
    businesses; and




 



     
        • 

    
    a general decline in business activity leading to reduced
    premium volume, increases in surrenders or cancellations of
    policies and increased competition from other insurers.





 


    The consequences of these conditions have been more severe for
    AIG than for other insurers. Since the third quarter of 2008,
    AIG’s principal sources of liquidity have been the Fed
    Facility and issuances of commercial paper under the Commercial
    Paper Funding Facility established by the NY Fed (CPFF).
    Authorization for the CPFF to accept new issuances of commercial
    paper is set to expire on October 30, 2009, with all
    outstanding issuances under the program maturing by January
    2010. Since mid-September 2008, AIG has had no access to funding
    in public markets.


 


    Certain of AIG’s in-force and new business products in its
    life insurance businesses provide minimum benefit guarantees and
    crediting rates. Low interest rates driven by recessionary or
    deflationary environments could result in a negative spread
    between the yield produced by AIG’s investment portfolios
    and the underlying costs of these products. While potentially
    providing short-term benefits, long-term profitability of the
    business could be negatively affected by this negative spread
    and the volume and value of new business could be adversely
    affected by low interest rate environments.


 



    Credit
    and Financial Strength Ratings


 


    Adverse ratings actions regarding AIG’s long-term debt
    ratings by the major rating agencies would require AIG to post a
    substantial amount of additional collateral payments pursuant
    to, and/or
    permit the termination of, derivative transactions to which
    AIGFP is a party, which could further adversely affect
    AIG’s business and its consolidated results of operations,
    financial condition and liquidity. Additional obligations to
    post collateral or the costs of assignment, termination or
    obtaining alternative credit could exceed the amounts then
    available under the Fed Facility.  In the third
    quarter of 2008, S&P, Moody’s, Fitch and
    A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best) each downgraded the
    credit ratings of AIG Inc. and most of the Insurer Financial
    Strength Ratings of AIG’s insurance operating subsidiaries.
    In particular, S&P downgraded AIG’s long-term debt
    rating by three notches, Moody’s downgraded AIG’s
    long-term debt rating by two notches, Fitch downgraded
    AIG’s long-term debt rating by two notches and A.M. Best
    downgraded AIG’s issuer credit rating from a+ to bbb and
    most of AIG’s Insurer Financial Strength Ratings from A+ to
    A.


 


    Subsequent to the rating actions referred to above, the
    following rating actions were taken:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Moody’s lowered AIG’s Senior Unsecured Debt rating to
    A3 from A2 and ILFC’s and American General Finance
    Corporation’s (AGF Corp.) Senior Unsecured Debt ratings to
    Baa1 from A3. Most ratings remain under review for possible
    downgrade with ILFC revised to under review with direction
    uncertain.




 



     
        • 

    
    S&P revised the CreditWatch status on AIG’s and AGF
    Corp.’s ratings from CreditWatch Developing to CreditWatch
    Negative in October 2008. Subsequently, S&P lowered its
    long-term debt rating on ILFC from A– to BBB+, and its
    short-term debt rating from A−1 to A−2. The ratings
    remain on Credit Watch Developing. S&P lowered its
    long-term debt rating on AGF Corp. from BBB to BB+, and its
    short-term debt rating from A−3 to B. The long-term debt
    ratings were assigned a Negative Outlook. S&P also revised
    the credit watch status of AIG’s property and casualty
    subsidiaries from Credit Watch Developing to Credit Watch
    Negative.




 



     
        • 

    
    Fitch lowered its long-term debt ratings on AGF Corp. from A to
    BBB. The ratings remain on Rating Watch Evolving. Fitch also
    removed the ratings of AIG, Inc. and its property and casualty
    subsidiaries from Rating Watch Evolving and assigned them a
    Stable Outlook.




 

 


    22    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    A.M. Best affirmed the Insurer Financial Strength Ratings and
    Issuer Credit Ratings of the insurance subsidiaries of AIG, Inc.
    In addition A.M. Best affirmed the Issuer Credit Rating of AIG,
    Inc. These ratings were removed from Under Review with Negative
    Implications and assigned a Negative Outlook.





 


    Credit ratings estimate a company’s ability to meet its
    obligations and may directly affect the cost and availability to
    that company of unsecured financing and its eligibility for
    certain government sponsored funding programs such as the CPFF,
    as discussed below. In the event of a further downgrade of
    AIG’s long-term senior debt ratings, AIGFP would be
    required to post additional collateral and AIG or certain of
    AIGFP’s counterparties would be permitted to elect early
    termination of contracts.


 


    It is estimated that as of the close of business on
    February 18, 2009, based on AIGFP’s outstanding
    municipal GIAs, secured funding arrangements and financial
    derivative transactions (including AIGFP’s super senior
    credit default swap portfolio) at that date, a one-notch
    downgrade of AIG’s long-term senior debt ratings to Baa1 by
    Moody’s and BBB+ by S&P would permit counterparties to
    make additional collateral calls and permit either AIGFP or the
    counterparties to elect early termination of contracts,
    resulting in up to approximately $8 billion of
    corresponding collateral postings and termination payments, a
    two-notch downgrade to Baa2 by Moody’s and BBB by S&P
    would result in approximately $2 billion in additional
    collateral postings and termination payments, and a three-notch
    downgrade to Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P would
    result in approximately $1 billion in additional collateral
    and termination payments.


 


    The actual amount of collateral that AIGFP would be required to
    post to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the
    aggregate amount of payments that AIG could be required to make,
    would depend on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding
    affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time
    of the downgrade. If AIG is unable to secure sufficient
    additional funding through the Fed Facility or otherwise, AIG
    could become insolvent.


 


    ILFC is a party to two Export Credit Agency (ECA) facilities
    that require ILFC to segregate security deposits and maintenance
    reserves related to aircraft financed under these facilities
    into separate accounts in the event of a downgrade in
    ILFC’s credit ratings. In October 2008, Moody’s
    downgraded ILFC’s debt ratings, and ILFC was subsequently
    notified by the trustees under its ECA facilities that it would
    be required to segregate security deposits and maintenance
    reserves totaling approximately $260 million in separate
    accounts. Further downgrades would impose additional
    restrictions under these facilities, including the requirement
    to segregate rental payments and would require prior consent to
    withdraw funds from the segregated account.


 


    For a further discussion of AIG’s liquidity, see
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Capital Resources and
    Liquidity — Liquidity.


 


    A downgrade in the short-term credit ratings of the
    commercial paper programs of certain AIG affiliates could make
    these issuers ineligible for participation in the
    CPFF.  AIG Funding and affiliates Curzon Funding
    LLC and Nightingale Finance LLC currently obtain financing
    through participation in the CPFF. As of February 18, 2009,
    AIG Funding, Curzon Funding LLC and Nightingale Finance LLC had
    $6.1 billion, $6.8 billion and $1.1 billion,
    respectively, outstanding under the CPFF. However, in the event
    of a downgrade of the short-term credit ratings applicable to
    the commercial paper programs of these issuers, they may no
    longer qualify for participation in the CPFF and would likely
    have significant difficulty obtaining access to alternative
    sources of liquidity. AIG’s subsidiary, ILFC, participated
    in the CPFF at December 31, 2008, but on January 21,
    2009, S&P downgraded ILFC’s short-term debt rating
    and, as a result, ILFC lost access to the CPFF. The CPFF
    purchases only U.S. dollar-denominated commercial paper
    (including asset-backed commercial paper) that is rated at least
    A-1/P-1/F1
    by a major nationally recognized statistical rating organization
    (NRSRO) or, if rated by multiple major NRSROs, is rated at least
    A-1/P-1/F1
    by two or more major NRSROs. Accordingly, these AIG entities
    will lose access to the CPFF if:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    AIG Funding’s short-term rating is downgraded by any two of
    S&P, Moody’s or Fitch;




 



     
        • 

    
    Curzon Funding LLC’s short-term rating is downgraded by
    either S&P or Moody’s; or




 



     
        • 

    
    Nightingale Finance LLC’s short-term rating is downgraded
    by either S&P or Moody’s.





 


    Adverse rating actions could result in further reductions in
    credit limits extended to AIG and in a decline in the number of
    counterparties willing to transact with AIG or its
    affiliates.  To appropriately manage risk, AIG
    needs trading counterparties willing to extend sufficient credit
    limits to purchase and sell securities, commodities and

 

 


    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K    23
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    




    other assets, as well as to conduct hedging activities. To the
    extent that counterparties are unwilling to trade with or to
    extend adequate credit limits to AIG or its subsidiaries, AIG
    could be exposed to open positions or other unhedged risks,
    resulting in increased volatility of results and increased
    losses.


 


    A downgrade in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of
    AIG’s insurance companies could prevent the companies from
    writing new business and retaining customers and
    business.  Insurer Financial Strength ratings are
    an important factor in establishing the competitive position of
    insurance companies. Insurer Financial Strength ratings measure
    an insurance company’s ability to meet its obligations to
    contract holders and policyholders, help maintain public
    confidence in a company’s products, facilitate marketing of
    products and enhance a company’s competitive position.


 


    Further downgrades of the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of
    AIG’s insurance companies may prevent these companies from
    offering products and services or result in increased policy
    cancellations or termination of assumed reinsurance contracts.
    Moreover, a downgrade in AIG’s credit ratings may, under
    credit rating agency policies concerning the relationship
    between parent and subsidiary ratings, result in a downgrade of
    the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of AIG’s insurance
    subsidiaries.


 



    Liquidity


 


    AIG parent’s ability to access funds from its
    subsidiaries is severely limited.  As a holding
    company, AIG parent depends significantly on dividends,
    distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund
    payments due on AIG’s obligations, including its debt
    securities. Further, the majority of AIG’s investments are
    held by its regulated subsidiaries. In light of AIG’s
    current financial situation, many of AIG’s regulated
    subsidiaries have been significantly restricted from making
    dividend payments, or advancing funds, to AIG, and AIG expects
    these restrictions to continue. AIG’s subsidiaries also are
    limited in their ability to make dividend payments or advance
    funds to AIG because of the need to retain funds to conduct
    their own operations. These factors may hinder AIG’s
    ability to access funds that AIG may need to make payments on
    its obligations, including those arising from day-to-day
    business activities.


 


    AIG parent’s ability to support its subsidiaries is
    limited.  Historically, AIG has provided capital
    and liquidity to its subsidiaries to maintain regulatory capital
    ratios, comply with rating agency requirements and meet
    unexpected cash flow obligations. AIG’s current limited
    access to liquidity may reduce or prevent AIG from providing
    support to its subsidiaries. If AIG is unable to provide support
    to a subsidiary having an immediate capital need, the subsidiary
    could become insolvent or, in the case of an insurance
    subsidiary or other regulated entity, could be seized by its
    regulator.


 


    A significant portion of AIG’s investments are illiquid
    and are difficult to sell, or to sell in significant amounts at
    acceptable prices, to generate cash to meet AIG’s
    needs.  AIG’s investments in certain
    securities, including certain fixed income securities and
    certain structured securities, direct private equities, limited
    partnerships, hedge funds, mortgage loans, flight equipment,
    finance receivables and real estate are illiquid. These asset
    classes represented approximately 31 percent of the
    carrying value of AIG’s total cash and invested assets at
    December 31, 2008. In addition, the steep decline in the
    U.S. real estate market and the current disruption in the
    credit markets have materially adversely affected the liquidity
    of other AIG securities portfolios, including its residential
    and commercial mortgage-backed securities portfolios. If AIG
    requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess
    of anticipated cash requirements or is required to post or
    return collateral in connection with AIGFP’s derivative
    transactions, then AIG may have difficulty selling these
    investments or terminating these transactions in a timely manner
    or may be forced to sell or terminate them at unfavorable values.


 


    If AIG fails to maintain compliance with the continued
    listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the
    NYSE may initiate suspension and de-listing procedures, which
    will have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of
    AIG’s common stock.  AIG’s common stock
    and other securities are listed on the NYSE. AIG is subject to
    the NYSE’s continued listing requirements, including, among
    other things, the requirement that AIG maintain an average
    closing price equal to at least $1.00 over each consecutive
    30-day
    trading period. The share price of AIG’s common stock has
    declined significantly since the third quarter of 2008, and
    recently has begun to close below $1.00. AIG has not been
    informed of any non-compliance by the NYSE, but there is no
    assurance that AIG will be able to maintain compliance with the
    NYSE’s continued listing standards or that, in the event of
    non-compliance, the NYSE will not take action to suspend and
    de-list AIG’s securities from trading. A de-listing would

 

 


    24    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    




    have a significant adverse effect on the liquidity of AIG’s
    common stock, making it more difficult and expensive for AIG to
    raise additional capital.


 



    Fed
    Facility and Series D Preferred Stock


 


    The Fed Credit Agreement and the Series D Preferred
    Stock require AIG to devote significant resources to debt
    repayment and preferred stock dividends for the foreseeable
    future, thereby significantly reducing capital available for
    other purposes.  AIG is required to repay the
    five-year Fed Facility primarily from the proceeds of sales of
    assets, including businesses. The amount available under the Fed
    Facility is permanently reduced by the amount of such repayments
    as they are made. In addition, the $40 billion liquidation
    preference of the Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual
    Preferred Stock (Series D Preferred Stock) issued to the
    United States Department of the Treasury accumulates
    dividends at 10 percent per year. These dividends, and the
    dividends on any other series of preferred stock issued by AIG,
    are not deductible for tax purposes.


 


    AIG’s significant obligations require it to dedicate all of
    its proceeds from asset dispositions and a considerable portion
    of its cash flows from operations to the repayment of the Fed
    Facility, thereby reducing the funds available for investment in
    its businesses. Moreover, because AIG’s debt service and
    preferred stock dividend obligations are very high, AIG may be
    more vulnerable to competitive pressures and have less
    flexibility to plan for or respond to changing business and
    economic conditions.


 


    A further inability to effect asset sales in accordance with its
    asset disposition plan or to do so at acceptable prices could
    result in AIG not being able to repay its borrowings under the
    Fed Facility. See Capital Resources and Liquidity
    Requirements — Asset Disposition Plan for a discussion
    of AIG’s asset disposition plan.


 


    Borrowings available to AIG under the Fed Facility may not be
    sufficient to meet AIG’s funding needs and additional
    financing may not be available or could be prohibitively
    expensive.  Additional collateral calls, continued
    high surrenders of annuity and other policies, further
    downgrades in AIG’s credit ratings or a further
    deterioration in AIGFP’s remaining super senior credit
    default swap portfolio could cause AIG to require additional
    funding in excess of the borrowings available under the Fed
    Facility. In that event, AIG would be required to find
    additional financing and new financing sources. In the current
    business environment such financing could be difficult, if not
    impossible, to obtain and, if available, very expensive, and
    additional funding from the NY Fed, United States Department of
    the Treasury or other government sources may not be available.
    If AIG is unable to obtain sufficient financing to meet its
    capital needs, AIG could become insolvent.


 


    Borrowings under the Fed Facility are subject to the NY Fed
    being satisfied with the collateral pledged by
    AIG.  A condition to borrowing under the Fed
    Facility is that the NY Fed be satisfied with the collateral
    pledged by AIG (including its value). It is possible that the NY
    Fed may determine that AIG’s collateral is insufficient to
    permit a borrowing for many reasons including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a decline in the value of AIG’s businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    poor performance in one or more of AIG’s
    businesses; and




 



     
        • 

    
    low prices received by AIG in its asset disposition plan.





 


    Such a determination could limit AIG’s ability to borrow
    under the Fed Facility.


 


    AIG must sell or otherwise dispose of significant assets to
    service the debt under the Fed Facility.  AIG must
    make asset dispositions to repay the borrowings under the Fed
    Facility. A continued delay or inability to effect these
    dispositions at acceptable prices and on acceptable terms could
    result in AIG being unable to repay the Fed Facility by its
    maturity date.


 


    While AIG has adopted an asset disposition plan, as discussed in
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Liquidity —
    Asset Disposition Plan, this plan may not be successfully
    executed due to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an inability of purchasers to obtain funding due to the
    deterioration in the credit markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    a general unwillingness of potential buyers to commit capital in
    the difficult current market environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    an adverse change in interest rates and borrowing costs; and




 

 


    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K    25
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    continued declines in AIG asset values and deterioration in its
    businesses.





 


    Further, AIG may be unable to negotiate favorable terms in
    connection with asset sales, including with respect to price. As
    a result, AIG may need to modify its asset disposition plan to
    sell additional or different assets.


 


    If AIG is not able to repay the Fed Facility from the proceeds
    of asset dispositions and cannot otherwise repay the Fed
    Facility in accordance with its terms, an event of default would
    result. In such an event, the NY Fed could enforce its security
    interest in AIG’s pledged collateral. In addition, an event
    of default or declaration of acceleration under the Fed Credit
    Agreement could also result in an event of default under other
    agreements. In such an event, AIG would likely not have
    sufficient liquid assets to meet its obligations under such
    agreements.


 


    The Fed Credit Agreement includes financial and other
    covenants that impose restrictions on AIG’s financial and
    business operations.  The Fed Credit Agreement
    requires AIG to maintain a minimum aggregate liquidity level and
    restricts AIG’s ability to make certain capital
    expenditures. The Fed Credit Agreement also restricts AIG’s
    and its restricted subsidiaries’ ability to incur
    additional indebtedness, incur liens, merge, consolidate, sell
    assets, enter into hedging transactions outside the normal
    course of business, or pay dividends. These covenants could
    restrict AIG’s business and thereby adversely affect
    AIG’s results of operations.


 


    Moreover, if AIG fails to comply with the covenants in the Fed
    Credit Agreement and is unable to obtain a waiver or amendment,
    an event of default would result. If an event of default were to
    occur, the NY Fed could, among other things, declare outstanding
    borrowings under the Fed Credit Agreement immediately due and
    payable and enforce its security interest in AIG’s pledged
    collateral. In addition, an event of default or declaration of
    acceleration under the Fed Credit Agreement could also result in
    an event of default under AIG’s other agreements.


 


    AIG’s results of operations and cash flows will be
    materially and adversely affected by a significant increase in
    interest expense and preferred stock dividends
    paid.  AIG expects its results of operations in
    2009 and in future periods to be significantly adversely
    affected by the recognition of interest expense on borrowings
    under the Fed Facility and by the payment of significant
    preferred stock dividends. In addition, the prepaid commitment
    fee asset of $23 billion associated with the Series C
    Preferred Stock (described below) was capitalized and is being
    amortized through interest expense over the term of the Fed
    Facility, which is five years.


 


    The Series D Preferred Stock accrues dividends, payable if,
    as and when declared, at a rate of 10 percent per annum, or
    $4 billion, on the $40 billion of liquidation
    preference, which are not tax deductible.


 



    Controlling
    Shareholder


 


    Following the issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock
    to the AIG Credit Facility Trust, a trust for the sole benefit
    of the United States Treasury, the Trust, which is overseen by
    three independent trustees, will hold a controlling interest in
    AIG. AIG’s interests and those of AIG’s minority
    shareholders may not be the same as those of the Trust or the
    United States Treasury.  In accordance with the
    Fed Credit Agreement, in early March 2009, AIG expects to issue
    100,000 shares of Series C Perpetual, Convertible,
    Participating Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share and at
    an initial liquidation preference of $5.00 per share (the
    Series C Preferred Stock), to the AIG Credit Facility
    Trust, a trust for the sole benefit of the United States
    Treasury (together with its trustees, the Trust) established
    under the AIG Credit Facility Trust Agreement dated as of
    January 16, 2009 (as it may be amended from time to time,
    the Trust Agreement). The Trust will hold the Series C
    Preferred Stock for the sole benefit of the United States
    Treasury. The Series C Preferred Stock is entitled to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    participate in any dividends paid on the common stock, with the
    payments attributable to the Series C Preferred Stock being
    approximately 77.9 percent of the aggregate dividends paid
    on common stock, treating the Series C Preferred Stock as
    converted; and




 



     
        • 

    
    to the extent permitted by law, vote with AIG’s common
    stock on all matters submitted to AIG’s shareholders and
    hold approximately 77.9 percent of the aggregate voting
    power of common stock, treating the Series C Preferred
    Stock as converted.





 


    The dividends payable on and the total voting power of
    (i) the shares of common stock underlying the Series C
    Preferred Stock, (ii) the 53,798,766 shares of common
    stock underlying the warrants issued to the United States
    Department of the Treasury on November 25, 2008 and
    (iii) the shares of common stock underlying the warrants to
    be issued to the United States Department of the Treasury in
    connection with the capital commitment facility will

 

 


    26    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    




    not exceed 79.9 percent of the aggregate dividends payable on
    and the voting power of the outstanding shares of common stock,
    treating the Series C Preferred Stock as converted.


 


    The Series C Preferred Stock will remain outstanding even
    if the Fed Facility is repaid in full or otherwise terminates.
    In addition, upon shareholder approval and the filing with the
    Delaware Secretary of State of certain amendments to AIG’s
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Trust can convert at
    its option all or a portion of the Series C Preferred Stock
    into common stock.


 


    As a result of its ownership of the Series C Preferred
    Stock, the Trust will be able, subject to the terms of the Trust
    Agreement and the Series C Preferred Stock, to elect all of
    AIG’s directors and will be able, to the extent permitted
    by law, to control the vote on substantially all matters,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    approval of mergers or other business combinations;




 



     
        • 

    
    a sale of all or substantially all of AIG’s assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    issuance of any additional common stock or other equity
    securities;




 



     
        • 

    
    the selection and tenure of AIG’s Chief Executive Officer
    and other executive officers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    other matters that might be favorable to the United States
    Treasury.





 


    Moreover, the Trust’s ability to prevent any change in
    control of AIG could also have an adverse effect on the market
    price of the common stock.


 


    The Trust may also, subject to the terms of the Trust Agreement
    and applicable securities laws, transfer all, or a portion of,
    the Series C Preferred Stock to another person or entity
    and, in the event of such a transfer, that person or entity
    could become the controlling shareholder.


 


    Possible future sales of Series C Preferred Stock or
    common stock by the Trust could adversely affect the market for
    AIG common stock.  Pursuant to the Series C
    Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 1,
    2009, between the Trust and AIG (the Series C Preferred
    Stock Purchase Agreement), AIG has agreed to file a shelf
    registration statement that will allow the Trust to publicly
    sell Series C Preferred Stock or any shares of common stock
    it receives upon conversion of the Series C Preferred
    Stock. In addition, the Trust could sell Series C Preferred
    Stock or shares of common stock without registration under
    certain circumstances, such as in a private transaction.
    Although AIG can make no prediction as to the effect, if any,
    that such sales would have on the market price of common stock,
    sales of substantial amounts of Series C Preferred Stock or
    common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur,
    could adversely affect the market price of common stock. If the
    Trust sells or transfers shares of Series C Preferred Stock
    or common stock as a block, another person or entity could
    become AIG’s controlling shareholder.


 



    Change
    of Control


 


    The issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock may have
    adverse consequences for AIG and its subsidiaries with
    regulators and contract counterparties.  The
    issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock will result in a
    change of control of AIG. A change of control of AIG triggers
    notice, approval and/or other regulatory requirements in many of
    the more than 130 countries and jurisdictions in which AIG and
    its subsidiaries operate. AIG has undertaken a worldwide review
    of the regulatory requirements arising in connection with the
    issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock, and has worked to
    achieve material compliance with applicable regulatory
    requirements. In this connection, AIG has submitted notices to
    regulators in the jurisdictions where its principal businesses
    are located, and currently has no knowledge that any regulator
    intends to impose any penalties or take any other actions as a
    result of the change in control of AIG in a manner that would be
    adverse in any material respect to AIG. However, in light of the
    large number of jurisdictions in which AIG and its subsidiaries
    operate and the complexity of assessing and addressing the
    regulatory requirements in each of the relevant jurisdictions,
    AIG has not been able to obtain all regulatory consents or
    approvals that may be required in connection with the issuance
    of the Series C Preferred Stock. Accordingly, no assurances
    can be provided that the failure to obtain all required consents
    or approvals will not have a material adverse effect on
    AIG’s consolidated financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.


 


    AIG and its subsidiaries are also parties to various contracts
    and other agreements that may be affected by a change of control
    of AIG. Although AIG believes the change of control arising from
    the issuance of the Series C

 

 


    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K    27
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    




    Preferred Stock will not result in a breach of any material
    contract or agreement, no assurances can be given that
    AIG’s counterparties to such contracts and agreements will
    not claim that breaches have occurred. If AIG were to be found
    to have breached any material contract or agreement, its
    consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Concentration
    of Investments and Exposures


 


    Concentration of AIG’s investment portfolios in any
    particular segment of the economy may have adverse
    effects.  AIG results of operations have been
    adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected by
    a concentration in residential mortgage-backed, commercial
    mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities. AIG also has
    significant exposures to financial institutions and, in
    particular, to money center and global banks. These types of
    concentrations in AIG’s investment portfolios could have an
    adverse effect on the investment portfolios and consequently on
    AIG’s consolidated results of operations or financial
    condition. While AIG seeks to mitigate this risk by having a
    broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have
    a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group
    of related industries or geographic region may have a greater
    adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that
    the portfolios are concentrated. Furthermore, AIG’s ability
    to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related
    assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking
    to sell at the same time.


 


    Concentration of AIG’s insurance and other risk
    exposures may have adverse effects.  AIG seeks to
    manage the risks to which it is exposed as a result of the
    insurance policies, derivatives and other obligations that it
    undertakes to customers and counterparties by monitoring the
    diversification of its exposures by exposure type, industry,
    geographic region, counterparty and otherwise and by using
    reinsurance, hedging and other arrangements to limit or offset
    exposures that exceed the limits it wishes to retain. In certain
    circumstances, or with respect to certain exposures, such risk
    management arrangements may not be available on acceptable
    terms, or AIG’s exposure in absolute terms may be so large
    that even slightly adverse experience compared to AIG’s
    expectations may cause a material adverse effect on AIG’s
    consolidated financial condition or results of operations.


 



    Casualty
    Insurance Underwriting and Reserves


 


    Casualty insurance liabilities are difficult to predict and
    may exceed the related reserves for losses and loss
    expenses.  AIG has announced that it intends to
    focus its resources on its core property and casualty insurance
    businesses while selling other businesses to repay the borrowing
    under the Fed Credit Agreement. As a result, AIG expects to
    become more reliant on these businesses.


 


    Although AIG annually reviews the adequacy of the established
    liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, there
    can be no assurance that AIG’s loss reserves will not
    develop adversely and have a material adverse effect on
    AIG’s results of operations. Estimation of ultimate net
    losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a complex process for
    long-tail casualty lines of business, which include excess and
    umbrella liability, D&O, professional liability, medical
    malpractice, workers’ compensation, general liability,
    products liability and related classes, as well as for asbestos
    and environmental exposures. Generally, actual historical loss
    development factors are used to project future loss development.
    However, there can be no assurance that future loss development
    patterns will be the same as in the past. Moreover, any
    deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors
    might not be discernible for an extended period of time
    subsequent to the recording of the initial loss reserve
    estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the potential
    for reserves with respect to a number of years to be
    significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss
    development factors that were relied upon in setting the
    reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development
    factors could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the
    judicial environment, or in other social or economic phenomena
    affecting claims, such as the effects that the recent disruption
    in the credit markets could have on reported claims under
    D&O or professional liability coverages. For a further
    discussion of AIG’s loss reserves see also
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Segment
    Results — General Insurance Operations —
    Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense.

 

 


    28    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    



 



    Catastrophe
    Exposures


 


    The occurrence of catastrophic events could adversely affect
    AIG’s consolidated financial condition or results of
    operations.  The occurrence of events such as
    hurricanes, earthquakes, pandemic disease, acts of terrorism and
    other catastrophes could adversely affect AIG’s
    consolidated financial condition or results of operations,
    including by exposing AIG’s businesses to the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    widespread claim costs associated with property, workers’
    compensation, mortality and morbidity claims;




 



     
        • 

    
    loss resulting from the value of invested assets declining to
    below the amount required to meet policy and contract
    liabilities; and




 



     
        • 

    
    loss resulting from actual policy experience emerging adversely
    in comparison to the assumptions made in the product pricing
    related to mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses.





 



    Reinsurance


 


    Reinsurance may not be available or
    affordable.  AIG subsidiaries are major purchasers
    of reinsurance and utilize reinsurance as part of AIG’s
    overall risk management strategy. Reinsurance is an important
    risk management tool to manage transaction and insurance line
    risk retention and to mitigate losses that may arise from
    catastrophes. Market conditions beyond AIG’s control
    determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance purchased
    by AIG subsidiaries. For example, reinsurance may be more
    difficult to obtain after a year with a large number of major
    catastrophes. Accordingly, AIG may be forced to incur additional
    expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient
    reinsurance on acceptable terms, in which case AIG would have to
    accept an increase in exposure risk, reduce the amount of
    business written by its subsidiaries or seek alternatives.


 


    Reinsurance subjects AIG to the credit risk of its reinsurers
    and may not be adequate to protect AIG against
    losses.  Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer
    liable to the AIG subsidiary to the extent the risk is ceded, it
    does not relieve the AIG subsidiary of the primary liability to
    its policyholders. Accordingly, AIG bears credit risk with
    respect to its subsidiaries’ reinsurers to the extent not
    mitigated by collateral or other credit enhancements. A
    reinsurer’s insolvency or inability or refusal to make
    timely payments under the terms of its agreements with the AIG
    subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on AIG’s
    results of operations and liquidity. For additional information
    on AIG’s reinsurance, see Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Risk Management — Reinsurance.


 



    Policyholder
    Behavior


 


    AIG’s policyholders, agents and other distributors of
    AIG’s insurance products have expressed significant
    concerns in the wake of announcements by AIG of adverse
    financial results. AIG expects that these concerns will be
    exacerbated by the announcement of AIG’s 2008
    results.  Many of AIG’s businesses depend
    upon the financial stability (both actual and perceived) of
    AIG’s parent company. Concerns that AIG or its subsidiaries
    may not be able to meet their obligations have negatively
    affected AIG’s businesses in many ways, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    requests by customers to withdraw funds from AIG under annuity
    and certain life insurance contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    a refusal by independent agents, brokers and banks to continue
    to offer AIG products and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    a refusal of counterparties, customers or vendors to continue to
    do business with AIG; and




 



     
        • 

    
    requests by customers and other parties to terminate existing
    contractual relationships.





 


    Continued economic uncertainty, additional adverse results or a
    lack of confidence in AIG and AIG’s businesses may cause
    AIG customers, agents and other distributors to cease or reduce
    their dealings with AIG, turn to competitors or shift to
    products that generate less income for AIG. Although AIG has
    announced its intent to refocus its business and certain AIG
    subsidiaries are rebranding themselves in an attempt to overcome
    a perception of instability, AIG cannot be sure that such
    efforts will be successful in attracting or maintaining clients.

 

 


    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K    29
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    



 



    Foreign
    Operations


 


    Foreign operations expose AIG to risks that may affect its
    operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.  AIG provides insurance, investment and
    other financial products and services to both businesses and
    individuals in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. A
    substantial portion of AIG’s General Insurance business and
    a majority of its Life Insurance & Retirement Services
    business is conducted outside the United States. Operations
    outside the United States, particularly those in developing
    nations, may be affected by regional economic downturns, changes
    in foreign currency exchange rates, political upheaval,
    nationalization and other restrictive government actions, which
    could also affect other AIG operations.


 


    The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign
    jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as its
    subsidiaries operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local
    regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities
    to AIG subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation.
    Thus, AIG’s insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from
    conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where
    they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country
    could adversely affect AIG’s results of operations,
    liquidity and financial condition depending on the magnitude of
    the event and AIG’s net financial exposure at that time in
    that country.


 



    Employees


 


    Because of the decline in the value of equity awards
    previously granted to employees and the uncertainty surrounding
    AIG’s asset disposition program, AIG may be unable to
    retain key employees, including individuals critical to the
    execution of its disposition plan.  AIG relies
    upon the knowledge and talent of its employees to successfully
    conduct business. The decline in AIG’s common stock price
    has dramatically reduced the value of equity awards previously
    granted to its key employees. Also, the announcement of proposed
    asset dispositions has resulted in competitors seeking to hire
    AIG’s key employees. AIG has implemented retention programs
    to seek to keep its key employees, but there can be no assurance
    that the programs will be effective. A loss of key employees
    could reduce the value of AIG’s businesses and impair its
    ability to effect a successful asset disposition plan.


 


    A loss of key employees in AIG’s financial reporting
    process could prevent AIG from making required filings,
    preparing financial statements and otherwise adversely affect
    its internal controls.  AIG relies upon the
    knowledge and experience of the employees involved in these
    functions for the effective and timely preparation of required
    filings and financial statements and operation of internal
    controls. If these employees depart, AIG may not be able to
    replace them with individuals having comparable knowledge and
    experience.


 


    The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the
    American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 may
    adversely affect AIG’s ability to retain its highest
    performing employees.  On February 17, 2009,
    the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery
    Act) was signed into law. The Recovery Act contains restrictions
    on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the five
    executives named in a company’s proxy statement and the
    next twenty highest paid employees of companies receiving TARP
    funds. Historically, AIG has embraced a pay-for-performance
    philosophy. Depending upon the limitations placed on incentive
    compensation by the final regulations issued under the Recovery
    Act, it is possible that AIG may be unable to create a
    compensation structure that permits AIG to retain its highest
    performing employees. If this were to occur, AIG’s asset
    disposition plan, businesses and results of operations would be
    adversely affected, perhaps materially.


 


    Conflicts of interest may arise as AIG implements its asset
    disposition plan.  AIG relies on certain key
    employees to operate its businesses during the asset disposition
    period, to provide information to prospective buyers and to
    maximize the value of businesses to be divested. The successful
    completion of the asset disposition plan could be adversely
    affected by any conflict of interests between AIG and its
    employees arising as a result of the asset disposition process.


 


    Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and
    prevent and may result in significant
    losses.  Losses may result from, among other
    things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly
    or to obtain proper internal authorization or failure to comply
    with regulatory requirements, both generally, and during the
    asset disposition process. There have been a number of highly
    publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by
    employees in the financial services industry in recent years,
    and AIG runs the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It
    is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct
    and the controls that AIG has in place to prevent and detect
    this activity may not be effective in all cases.

 

 


    30    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    



 



    Regulation


 


    AIG is subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions
    in which it conducts its businesses, and recent regulatory
    actions have made it challenging for AIG to continue to engage
    in business in the ordinary course.  AIG’s
    operations around the world are subject to regulation by
    different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance,
    securities, investment advisory, banking and thrift regulators
    in the United States and abroad. AIG’s operations have
    become more diverse and consumer-oriented, increasing the scope
    of regulatory supervision and the possibility of intervention.
    In light of AIG’s liquidity issues beginning in the third
    quarter of 2008, AIG and its regulated subsidiaries have been
    subject to intense review and supervision around the world.
    Regulators have taken significant steps to protect the
    businesses of the entities they regulate. These steps have
    included:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Restricting or prohibiting the payment of dividends to AIG;




 



     
        • 

    
    Restricting or prohibiting other payments to AIG;




 



     
        • 

    
    Requesting additional capital contributions by AIG;




 



     
        • 

    
    Requesting that intercompany reinsurance reserves be covered by
    assets locally;




 



     
        • 

    
    Restricting the business in which the subsidiaries may
    engage; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Requiring pre-approval of all proposed transactions between the
    regulated subsidiaries and AIG or any affiliate.





 


    AIG does not expect these conditions to change unless its
    financial situation stabilizes.


 



    Adjustments
    to Life Insurance & Retirement Services Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs


 


    Interest rate fluctuations, increased surrenders and other
    events may require AIG subsidiaries to accelerate the
    amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) which
    could adversely affect AIG’s consolidated financial
    condition or results of operations.  DAC
    represents the costs that vary with and are related primarily to
    the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity
    contracts. When interest rates rise or customers lose confidence
    in a company, policy loans and policy surrenders and withdrawals
    of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as
    policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns
    or more stability, requiring AIG subsidiaries to accelerate the
    amortization of DAC. To the extent such amortization exceeds
    surrender or other charges earned upon surrender and withdrawals
    of certain life insurance policies and annuity contracts,
    AIG’s results of operations could be negatively affected.


 


    DAC for both insurance-oriented and investment-oriented
    products, as well as retirement services products is reviewed
    for recoverability, which involves estimating the future
    profitability of current business. This review involves
    significant management judgment. If the actual emergence of
    future profitability were to be substantially lower than
    estimated, AIG could be required to accelerate its DAC
    amortization and such acceleration could adversely affect
    AIG’s results of operations. For a further discussion of
    DAC, see also Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Critical Accounting Estimates and Notes 1 and 8 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Risk
    Management


 


    AIG is exposed to a number of significant risks, and
    AIG’s risk management policies, processes and controls may
    not be effective in mitigating AIG’s risk exposures in all
    market conditions and to all types of risk.  The
    major risks to which AIG is exposed include credit risk, market
    risk, including credit spread risk, operational risk, liquidity
    risk and insurance risk. Given continued capital markets
    volatility, persistent risk aversion, inadequate liquidity in
    the markets of many asset classes, combined with AIG’s
    weakened financial condition, AIG may not have adequate risk
    management policies, tools and processes and AIG may not have
    sufficient access to the markets and trading counterparties to
    effectively implement risk mitigating strategies and techniques.
    This environment could materially and adversely affect
    AIG’s consolidated results of operations, liquidity or
    financial condition, result in regulatory action or litigation
    or further damage AIG’s reputation. For a further
    discussion of AIG’s risk management process and controls,
    see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management.

 

 


    AIG 2008
    Form 10-K    31
    




Table of Contents





    American International Group, Inc.,
    and Subsidiaries
    



 


    Operational risks of asset dispositions.  AIG
    is exposed to various operational risks associated with the
    dispositions of subsidiaries and the resulting restructuring of
    AIG at the business and corporate levels. These risks include
    the ability to deconsolidate systems and processes of divested
    operations without adversely affecting AIG, the ability of AIG
    to fulfill its obligations under any transition separation
    agreements agreed upon with buyers, the ability of AIG to
    downsize the corporation as dispositions are accomplished and
    the ability of AIG to continue to provide services previously
    performed by divested entities.


 


    AIGFP wind-down risks.  An orderly and
    successful wind-down of AIGFP’s businesses and portfolios
    is subject to numerous risks, including market conditions,
    counterparty willingness to transact, or terminate transactions,
    with AIGFP and the retention of key personnel. An orderly and
    successful wind-down will also depend on the stability of
    AIG’s credit ratings. Further downgrades of AIG’s
    credit ratings likely would have an adverse effect on the
    wind-down of AIGFP’s businesses and portfolios.


 



    Use
    of Estimates


 


    If actual experience differs from management’s estimates
    used in the preparation of financial statements, AIG’s
    consolidated results of operations or financial condition could
    be adversely affected.  The preparation of
    financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States requires the application
    of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree
    of judgment. AIG considers that its accounting policies that are
    most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions,
    and therefore viewed as critical accounting estimates, are those
    described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting estimates
    require the use of assumptions, some of which are highly
    uncertain at the time of estimation. For example, recent market
    volatility and declines in liquidity have made it more difficult
    to value certain of AIG’s invested assets and the
    obligations and collateral relating to certain financial
    instruments issued or held by AIG, such as AIGFP’s super
    senior credit default swap portfolio. Additionally, the
    recoverability of deferred tax assets depends in large part on
    assumptions about future profitability. These estimates, by
    their nature, are based on judgment and current facts and
    circumstances. Therefore, actual results could differ from these
    estimates, possibly in the near term, and could have a material
    effect on the consolidated financial statements.


 



    Legal
    Proceedings


 


    Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect AIG’s
    results of operations.  AIG is party to numerous
    legal proceedings, including securities class actions and
    regulatory or governmental investigations. Due to the nature of
    the litigation, the lack of precise damage claims and the type
    of claims made against AIG, AIG cannot currently quantify its
    ultimate liability for these actions. It is possible that
    developments in these unresolved matters could have a material
    adverse effect on AIG’s consolidated financial condition or
    consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting
    period. For a discussion of these unresolved matters, see
    Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Aircraft
    Suppliers


 


    There are limited suppliers of aircraft and
    engines.  The supply of jet transport aircraft,
    which ILFC purchases and leases, is dominated by two airframe
    manufacturers, Boeing and Airbus, and a limited number of engine
    manufacturers. As a result, ILFC is dependent on the
    manufacturers’ success in remaining financially stable,
    producing aircraft and related components which meet the
    airlines’ demands, both in type and quantity, and
    fulfilling their contractual obligations to ILFC. Competition
    between the manufacturers for market share is intense and may
    lead to instances of deep discounting for certain aircraft types
    that could negatively affect ILFC’s competitive pricing.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B