Item 1A – Risk Factors and Note 18
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for risks and additional information
related to these statutory reserving requirements. Additionally, the NAIC has
adopted a Principle-Based Reserving (PBR) approach for life insurance products,
which will become operational once adopted in 42 U.S. jurisdictions accounting
for at least 75 percent of U.S. insurance premiums combined.  Once it becomes
operational, PBR would replace Regulation XXX and Guidelines AXXX with respect
to new life insurance business issued.  Two of our domiciliary states (Missouri
and Texas) have adopted regulations necessary to implement PBR once the
required number of jurisdictions and insurance premiums threshold have been
satisfied.

The NAIC has undertaken the Solvency Modernization Initiative
(SMI) which focuses on a review of insurance solvency regulations throughout
the U.S. financial regulatory system and is expected to lead to a set of
long-term solvency modernization goals. SMI is broad in scope, but the NAIC has
stated that its focus will include the U.S. solvency framework, group solvency
issues, capital requirements, international accounting and regulatory
standards, reinsurance and corporate governance.

The NAIC has adopted revisions to the NAIC Insurance Holding
Company System Regulatory Act (the Model Holding Company Act) and the Insurance
Holding Company System Model Regulation.  The revised models include provisions
authorizing NAIC commissioners to act as global group-wide supervisors for
internationally active insurance groups, and the requirement that the ultimate
controlling person of a U.S. insurer file an annual enterprise risk report with
the lead state of the insurer identifying risks likely to have a material
adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its
insurance holding company system as a whole. To date, a majority of the states
where AIG has domestic insurers have enacted a version of the revised Model
Holding Company Act, including the enterprise risk reporting requirement. 






 
  
  30
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1 / BUSINESS


 
  
   
   
  
 



 



A substantial portion of our
business is conducted in foreign countries. The degree of regulation and
supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, our subsidiaries operating
in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements, licenses
issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification
or revocation by such authorities, and therefore these subsidiaries could be
prevented from conducting business in certain of the jurisdictions where they
currently operate. 

In addition to licensing requirements, our foreign operations
are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to currency, policy
language and terms, advertising, amount and type of security deposits, amount
and type of reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type of
local investment and the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on
participating policies. Some foreign countries regulate rates on various types
of policies. Certain countries have established reinsurance institutions,
wholly or partially owned by the local government, to which admitted insurers
are obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms that may not always
allow foreign insurers, including our subsidiaries, full compensation. In some
countries, regulations governing constitution of technical reserves and
remittance balances may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of
assets. 

See Item 7. MD&A — Liquidity and Capital Resources —
Regulation and Supervision and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION ABOUT AIG


 
  
   
  
 



Our corporate website is www.aig.com. We make available free
of charge, through the Investor Information section of our corporate website,
the following reports (and related amendments as filed with the SEC) as soon as
reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or
furnished to, the SEC: 

•   
Annual Reports on Form 10-K

•   
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q 

•   
Current Reports on Form 8-K

•   
Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, as well as other filings with
the SEC

Also available on our corporate website:

•   
Charters for Board Committees: Audit, Nominating and Corporate
Governance, Compensation and Management Resources, Risk and Capital,
Regulatory, Compliance and Public Policy, and Technology Committees 

•   
Corporate Governance Guidelines (which include Director
Independence Standards) 

•   
Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics (we will post on our website any amendment or
waiver to this Code within the time period required by the SEC)

•   
Employee Code of Conduct

•   
Related‑Party Transactions Approval Policy 

Except for the documents
specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
information contained on our website or that can be accessed through our
website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Reference to our website is made as an inactive textual
reference.













 
  
  31
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



ITEM 1A / RISK FACTORs 


 
  
   
  
 



Investing in
AIG involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in AIG, you should carefully
consider the following risk factors. Any of these risk factors could have a
significant or material adverse effect on our businesses, results of
operations, financial condition or liquidity. They could also cause significant
fluctuations and volatility in the trading price of our securities. Readers
should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of
all potential risks that could affect AIG. These factors should be considered
carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the
other reports and materials filed by us with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). Further, many of these risks are interrelated and could
occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of
certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of
others. Such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact
of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition
and liquidity.

MARKET
CONDITIONS


 
  
   
  
 



Difficult conditions in the
global capital markets and the economy may materially and adversely affect our businesses,
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our
businesses are highly dependent on the economic environment, both in the U.S.
and around the world. Extreme market events, such as the global financial
crisis during 2008 and 2009, have at times led, and could in the future lead,
to a lack of liquidity, highly volatile markets, a steep depreciation in asset
values across all classes, an erosion of investor and public confidence, and a
widening of credit spreads. Concerns and events beyond our control, such as
U.S. fiscal and monetary policy, the U.S. housing market, oil prices, slowing
growth in China and the Euro-Zone economies, concerns about European sovereign
debt risk and the European banking industry and declines in prices in the high
yield market and the resultant impact on certain funds have in the past, and
may in the future, adversely affect liquidity, increase volatility, decrease
asset prices, erode confidence and lead to wider credit spreads. Difficult
economic conditions could also result in increased unemployment and a severe
decline in business across a wide range of industries and regions. These market
and economic factors could have a material adverse effect on our businesses,
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Under difficult economic or market conditions, we could
experience reduced demand for our products and an elevated incidence of claims,
increased policy cancellations and lapses or surrenders of policies. Contract
holders may choose to defer or cease paying insurance premiums. Other ways in
which we could be negatively affected by economic conditions include, but are
not limited to:

•   
declines in the valuation and performance of our investment portfolio,
including declines attributable to rapid increases in interest rates;

•   
increased credit losses;

•   
declines in the value of other assets;

•   
impairments of goodwill and other long-lived assets;

•   
additional statutory capital requirements;

•   
limitations on our ability to recover deferred tax assets;

•   
a decline in new business levels and renewals;

•   
a decline in insured values caused by a decrease in activity at client
organizations;

•   
an increase in liability for future policy benefits due to loss
recognition on certain long-duration insurance contracts;

•   
higher borrowing costs and more limited availability of credit;

•   
an increase in policy surrenders and cancellations; and

•   
a write-off of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC).

Sustained
low interest rates may materially and adversely affect our profitability.
Recent periods have been
characterized by low interest rates relative to historical levels. Sustained
low interest rates can negatively affect the 




 
  
  32
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



performance
of our investment securities and reduce the level of investment income earned
on our investment portfolios. If a low interest rate environment persists, we
may experience lower investment income growth. Due to practical and capital
markets limitations, we may not be able to fully mitigate our interest rate
risk by matching exposure of our assets relative to our liabilities. Continued
low interest rates could also impair our ability to earn the returns assumed in
the pricing and the reserving for our products at the time they were sold and
issued. Changes in interest rates may be correlated with inflation trends,
which would impact our loss trends.

Investment
Portfolio, Concentration of Investments, Insurance and other Exposures


 
  
   
  
 



The performance and value of our
investment portfolio are
subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes in interest
rates.   Our investment
securities are subject to market risks and uncertainties. In particular,
interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including monetary policy,
domestic and international economic and political issues and other factors
beyond our control. Changes in monetary policy or other factors may cause
interest rates to rise, which would adversely affect the value of the fixed
income securities that we hold and could adversely affect our ability to sell
these securities. In addition, the evaluation of available-for-sale securities
for other-than-temporary impairments, which may occur if interest rates rise,
is a quantitative and qualitative process that is subject to significant
management judgment. For a sensitivity analysis of our exposure to certain
market risk factors, see Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management – Market
Risk Management. Furthermore, our alternative investment portfolio includes
investments for which changes in fair value are reported through operating income
and are therefore subject to significant volatility.  In an economic downturn
or declining market, the reduction in our investment income due to decreases in
the fair value of alternative investments could have a material adverse effect
on operating income.

Our
investment portfolio is concentrated in certain segments of the economy.
Our results of operations and financial condition have in the past been, and
may in the future be, adversely affected by the degree of concentration in our
investment portfolio. We have concentrations in real estate and real
estate-related securities, including residential mortgage-backed, commercial
mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage
loans. We also have significant exposures to financial institutions and, in
particular, to money center and global banks; certain industries, such as
energy and utilities; U.S. state and local government issuers and authorities;
PICC Group and PICC P&C, as a result of our strategic investments; and Euro
Zone financial institutions, governments and corporations. Events or
developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, asset
class, group of related industries or geographic region may adversely affect
our investments to the extent they are concentrated in such segments. Our
ability to sell assets concentrated in such areas may be limited.

Concentration
of our insurance and other risk exposures may have adverse effects.
We may be exposed to risks as a result of concentrations in our insurance policies,
derivatives and other obligations that we undertake for customers and
counterparties. We manage these concentration risks by monitoring the
accumulation of our exposures to factors such as exposure type, industry,
geographic region, counterparty and other factors. We also seek to use
reinsurance, hedging and other arrangements to limit or offset exposures that
exceed the limits we wish to retain. In certain circumstances, however, these
risk management arrangements may not be available on acceptable terms or may
prove to be ineffective for certain exposures. Also, our exposure for certain
single risk coverages and other coverages may be so large that adverse
experience compared to our expectations may have a material adverse effect on
our consolidated results of operations or result in additional statutory
capital requirements for our subsidiaries. Also see Item 7. MD&A – Executive
Overview – Commercial Insurance Outlook and Strategic Initiatives.

Our valuation of investment
securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are
subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment
valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity. During
periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our
investment securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data
becomes less observable. There may be cases where certain assets in normally
active markets with significant observable data become inactive with
insufficient observable data due to the financial environment or market
conditions in effect at that time. As a result, valuations may include inputs
and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment
as well as valuation methods that are more complex. These values may not be
realized in a market transaction, may not reflect the value of the asset and
may 




 
  
  33
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



change very rapidly as market conditions change
and valuation assumptions are modified. Decreases in value and/or an inability
to realize that value in a market transaction or secured lending transaction
may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity.

Reserves and Exposures


 
  
   
  
 



Insurance
liabilities are difficult to predict and may exceed the related reserves for
losses and loss expenses. We regularly review the adequacy of the
established liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and
conduct extensive analyses of our reserves during the year. Our loss reserves,
however, may develop adversely. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss
expenses and loss reserves is a complex process, particularly for long-tail
casualty lines of business. These lines include, but are not limited to,
general liability, commercial automobile liability, environmental, workers'
compensation, excess casualty and crisis management coverages, insurance and
risk management programs for large corporate customers and other customized
structured insurance products, as well as excess and umbrella liability,
Directors and Officers and products liability. 

While we use a number of analytical reserve development
techniques to project future loss development, reserves may be significantly
affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors that were
relied upon in setting the reserves. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2015,
we recorded a net charge of $3.6 billion to strengthen our Non-Life Insurance
Companies' loss reserves, reflecting adverse development in classes of business
with long reporting tails, primarily in U.S. & Canada casualty, U.S. &
Canada financial lines and run-off lines. These changes in loss cost trends or
loss development factors could be due to difficulties in predicting changes,
such as changes in inflation, unemployment duration, or other social or
economic factors affecting claims, including the judicial environment. Any
deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be
identified for an extended period of time after we record the initial loss
reserve estimates for any accident year or number of years. For a further
discussion of our loss reserves, see Item 7. MD&A — Insurance
Reserves —Non-Life Insurance Companies and Critical Accounting
Estimates — Insurance Liabilities — Liability for Unpaid Losses and Loss
Adjustment Expenses (Non-Life Insurance Companies).

Our consolidated results of operations,
liquidity, financial condition and ratings are subject to the effects of natural
and man-made catastrophic events. Events such as hurricanes,
windstorms, flooding, earthquakes, acts of terrorism, explosions and fires,
cyber-crimes, product defects, pandemic and other highly contagious diseases,
mass torts and other catastrophes have adversely affected our business in the
past and could do so in the future. In addition, we recognize the scientific
consensus that climate change is a reality of increasing concern, indicated by
higher concentrations of greenhouse gases, a warming atmosphere and ocean,
diminished snow and ice, and sea level rise. We understand that climate change
potentially poses a serious financial threat to society as a whole, with implications
for the insurance industry in areas such as catastrophe risk perception,
pricing and modeling assumptions. Because there is significant variability
associated with the impacts of climate change, we cannot predict how physical,
legal, regulatory and social responses may impact our business.   

Such catastrophic events, and any relevant regulations,
could expose us to:

•   
widespread claim costs associated with property, workers’ compensation,
A&H, business interruption and mortality and morbidity claims;

•   
loss resulting from a decline in the value of our invested assets;

•   
limitations on our ability to recover deferred tax assets; 

•   
loss resulting from actual policy experience that is adverse compared to
the assumptions made in product pricing; 

•   
declines in value and/or losses with respect to companies and other
entities whose securities we hold and counterparties we transact business with
and have credit exposure to, including reinsurers, and declines in the value of
investments; and 

•   
significant interruptions to our systems and operations.

Catastrophic events are generally unpredictable.  Our
exposure to catastrophes depends on various factors, including the frequency
and severity of the catastrophes, the rate of inflation and the value and geographic
concentration of insured property 




 
  
  34
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



and people. Vendor
models and proprietary assumptions and processes that we use to manage
catastrophe exposure may prove to be ineffective due to incorrect assumptions
or estimates.  

In addition, legislative and regulatory initiatives and
court decisions following major catastrophes could require us to pay the
insured beyond the provisions of the original insurance policy and may prohibit
the application of a deductible, resulting in inflated catastrophe claims.

For further details on potential catastrophic events,
including a sensitivity analysis of our exposure to certain catastrophes, see
Item 7. MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management —Insurance
Operations Risks.

Reinsurance
may not be available or affordable and may not be adequate to protect us
against losses. Our subsidiaries are major purchasers of
reinsurance and we use reinsurance as part of our overall risk management
strategy. While reinsurance does not discharge our subsidiaries from their
obligation to pay claims for losses insured under our policies, it does make
the reinsurer liable to them for the reinsured portion of the risk. For this
reason, reinsurance is an important tool to manage transaction and insurance
line risk retention and to mitigate losses from catastrophes. Market conditions
beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. For
example, reinsurance may be more difficult or costly to obtain after a year
with a large number of major catastrophes. As a result, we may, at certain
times, be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable
to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms. In that case, we would
have to accept an increase in exposure risk, reduce the amount of business
written by our subsidiaries or seek alternatives in line with our risk limits. Additionally,
we are exposed to credit risk with respect to our subsidiaries’ reinsurers to
the extent the reinsurance receivable is not secured by collateral or does not
benefit from other credit enhancements. We also bear the risk that a reinsurer
may be unwilling to pay amounts we have recorded as reinsurance recoverable for
any reason, including that (i) the terms of the reinsurance contract do not
reflect the intent of the parties of the contract or there is a disagreement
between the parties as to their intent, (ii) the terms of the contract cannot
be legally enforced, (iii) the terms of the contract are interpreted by a court
or arbitration panel differently than intended, (iv) the reinsurance transaction
performs differently than we anticipated due to a flawed design of the
reinsurance structure, terms or conditions, or (v) a change in laws and
regulations, or in the interpretation of the laws and regulations, materially
impacts a reinsurance transaction. The insolvency of one or more of our
reinsurers, or inability or unwillingness to make timely payments under the
terms of our contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and liquidity. Additionally, the use of reinsurance placed in the
capital markets, such as through catastrophe bonds, may not provide the same
levels of protection as traditional reinsurance transactions and any
disruption, volatility and uncertainty in the catastrophe bond market, such as
following a major catastrophe event, may limit our ability to access such
market on terms favorable to us or at all. Also, to the extent that we intend
to utilize catastrophe bond transactions based on an industry loss index or
other non-indemnity trigger rather than on actual losses incurred by us, we
could be subject to residual risk. Our inability to obtain adequate reinsurance
or other protection
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. 

We currently have limited reinsurance coverage for terrorist
attacks.  Further, the availability of private sector reinsurance for terrorism
is limited. As a result, we rely heavily on the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program
Reauthorization Act (TRIPRA), which provides U.S. government risk assistance to
the insurance industry to manage the exposure to terrorism incidents in the
United States. TRIPRA was reauthorized in January 2015 and is scheduled to
expire on December 31, 2020. Under TRIPRA, once our losses for certain acts of
terrorism exceed a deductible equal to 20 percent of our commercial property
and casualty insurance premiums for covered lines for the prior calendar year,
the federal government will reimburse us for losses in excess of our
deductible, starting at 85 percent of losses in 2015, and reducing by one
percentage point each year, ending at 80 percent in 2020, up to a total
industry program limit of $100 billion. TRIPRA does not cover losses in certain
lines of business such as consumer property and consumer casualty.

For additional information on our reinsurance recoverable,
see Item 7. MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management — Insurance
Operations Risks — Reinsurance Recoverable.  






 
  
  35
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL AND CREDIT


 
  
   
  
 



AIG
Parent’s ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited.
As a holding company, AIG Parent depends on dividends, distributions and other
payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends on AIG Common Stock and to
make payments due on its obligations, including its outstanding debt. The majority
of our investments are held by our regulated subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may
be limited in their ability to make dividend payments or advance funds to AIG
Parent in the future because of the need to support their own capital levels or
because of regulatory limits or rating agency requirements. The inability of
our subsidiaries to make payments, dividends or distributions in an amount
sufficient to enable AIG Parent to meet its cash requirements could have an
adverse effect on our operations, our ability to pay dividends or our ability
to meet our debt service obligations.

Our internal sources of liquidity
may be insufficient to meet our needs. We need liquidity to pay
our operating expenses, interest on our debt, maturing debt obligations and to
meet any statutory capital requirements of our subsidiaries. If our liquidity
is insufficient to meet our needs, we may at the time need to have recourse to
third-party financing, external capital markets or other sources of liquidity,
which may not be available or could be prohibitively expensive. The
availability and cost of any additional financing at any given time depends on
a variety of factors, including general market conditions, the volume of
trading activities, the overall availability of credit, regulatory actions and
our credit ratings and credit capacity. It is also possible that, as a result
of such recourse to external financing, customers, lenders or investors could
develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Disruptions,
volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets, and downgrades in our
credit ratings, may limit our ability to access external capital markets at
times and on terms favorable to us to meet our capital and liquidity needs or
prevent our accessing the external capital markets or other financing sources.
For a further discussion of our liquidity, see Item 7. MD&A —
Liquidity and Capital Resources.

AIG
Parent’s ability to support our subsidiaries is limited. AIG Parent has in the past and expects to continue
to provide capital to our subsidiaries as necessary to maintain regulatory
capital ratios, comply with rating agency requirements and meet unexpected cash
flow obligations.  If AIG Parent is unable to satisfy a capital need of a
subsidiary, the credit rating agencies could downgrade the subsidiary insurer’s
financial strength ratings or the subsidiary could become insolvent or, in
certain cases, could be seized by its regulator. 

Our
subsidiaries may not be able to generate cash to meet their needs due to the
illiquidity of some of their investments. Our subsidiaries have
investments in certain securities that may be illiquid, including certain fixed
income securities and certain structured securities, private company
securities, investments in private equity funds and hedge funds, mortgage
loans, finance receivables and real estate. Collectively, investments in these
assets had a fair value of $59 billion at December 31, 2015. Adverse
real estate and capital markets, and wider credit spreads, have in the past,
and may in the future, materially adversely affect the liquidity of our other
securities portfolios, including our residential and commercial mortgage‑related
securities portfolios. In the event additional liquidity is required by one or more
of our subsidiaries and AIG Parent is unable to provide it, it may be difficult
for these subsidiaries to generate additional liquidity by selling, pledging or
otherwise monetizing these less liquid investments.

A
downgrade in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance companies
could limit their ability to write or prevent them from writing new business
and retaining customers and business. Insurer Financial Strength
(IFS) ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position
of insurance companies. IFS ratings measure an insurance company’s ability to
meet its obligations to contract holders and policyholders. High ratings help
maintain public confidence in a company’s products, facilitate marketing of
products and enhance its competitive position. Downgrades of the IFS ratings of
our insurance companies could prevent these companies from selling, or make it
more difficult for them to succeed in selling, products and services, or result
in increased policy cancellations, lapses and surrenders, termination of
assumed reinsurance contracts, or return of premiums. Under credit rating
agency policies concerning the relationship between parent and subsidiary
ratings, a downgrade in AIG Parent’s credit ratings could result in a downgrade
of the IFS ratings of our insurance subsidiaries. Certain rating agencies recently
revised our IFS ratings and ratings outlooks, primarily as a result of our
reserve strengthening in the fourth quarter of 2015 and related concerns regarding
our profitability outlook. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may
take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating
agencies, which could adversely affect our business.






 
  
  36
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



A downgrade in our credit ratings could require us to post
additional collateral and result in the termination of derivative transactions.
Credit ratings estimate a company’s ability to meet its obligations and may
directly affect the cost and availability of financing. A downgrade of our
long-term debt ratings by the major rating agencies would require us to post
additional collateral payments related to derivative transactions to which we
are a party, and could permit the termination of these derivative transactions.
This could adversely affect our business, our consolidated results of
operations in a reporting period or our liquidity. In the event of further
downgrades of two notches to our long-term senior debt ratings, AIG would be
required to post additional collateral of $95 million, and certain of our counterparties
would be permitted to elect early termination of contracts. Certain rating
agencies recently revised the outlook for our credit ratings, primarily as a
result of our reserve strengthening in the fourth quarter of 2015 and related
concerns regarding our profitability outlook. We cannot predict what actions
rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the
actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business.

Business and operations


 
  
   
  
 



Interest
rate fluctuations, increased lapses and surrenders, declining investment
returns and other events may require our subsidiaries to accelerate the
amortization of DAC and record additional liabilities for future policy
benefits. We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
renewal insurance business. DAC represents deferred costs that are incremental
and directly related to the successful acquisition of new business or renewal
of existing business. The recovery of DAC is generally dependent upon the future
profitability of the related business, but DAC amortization varies based on the
type of contract. For long-duration traditional business, DAC is generally
amortized in proportion to premium revenue and varies with lapse experience. 
Actual lapses in excess of expectations can result in an acceleration of DAC
amortization.

DAC for investment-oriented products is generally amortized
in proportion to estimated gross profits.  Estimated gross profits are affected
by a number of assumptions, including current and expected interest rates, net
investment income and spreads, net realized gains and losses, fees, surrender
rates, mortality experience and equity market returns and volatility.  If
actual and/or future estimated gross profits are less than originally expected,
then the amortization of DAC would be accelerated in the period the actual
experience is known and would result in a charge to income.  For example, if
interest rates rise rapidly and significantly, customers with policies that
have interest crediting rates below the current market may seek competing
products with higher returns and we may experience an increase in surrenders
and withdrawals of life and annuity contracts, resulting in a decrease in
future profitability and an acceleration of the amortization of DAC. 

We also periodically review products for potential loss
recognition events, principally insurance-oriented products.  This review
involves estimating the future profitability of in-force business and requires
significant management judgment about assumptions including mortality,
morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses, and investment returns, including
net realized capital gains (losses). If actual experience or estimates result
in projected future losses, we may be required to amortize any remaining DAC
and record additional liabilities through a charge to policyholder benefit
expense, which could negatively affect our results of operations.  For further
discussion of DAC and future policy benefits, see Item 7. MD&A — Critical Accounting
Estimates and Notes 8 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our restructuring initiatives may not yield our expected
reductions in expenses and improvements in operational and organizational
efficiency. We may not be able to fully realize the anticipated expense
reductions and operational and organizational efficiency improvements we expect
to result from our restructuring initiatives. Actual costs to implement these
initiatives may exceed our estimates or we may be unable to fully implement
these initiatives, and the implementation of these initiatives may harm our
relationships with customers or employees or our competitive position. The
successful implementation of these initiatives has required us and will
continue to require us to effect workforce reductions, business
rationalizations, systems enhancements, business process outsourcing, business and
asset dispositions and other actions, which depend on a number of factors, some
of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to realize these anticipated
expense reductions and efficiency improvements or if implementing these
initiatives harms our relationships with customers or employees or our
competitive position, our businesses and results of operations may be adversely
affected.

  






 
  
  37
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



Certain of our products have guarantees that may increase
the volatility of our results. We offer
variable annuity and life insurance products with features that guarantee a certain
level of benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB),
guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB), guaranteed minimum withdrawal
benefits (GMWB), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (GMAB), and products
with guaranteed interest crediting rates tied to an index. In addition to
risk-mitigating features in our variable annuity product design, we have an
economic hedging program designed to manage market risk from GMWB and GMAB,
including exposures to changes in equity prices, interest rates, credit spreads
and volatilities. The hedging program utilizes derivative instruments,
including but not limited to equity options, futures contracts, interest rate
swap and swaption contracts, as well as fixed maturity securities with a fair
value election. See Enterprise Risk Management – Life Insurance Companies Key
Insurance Risks – Variable Annuity Risk Management and Hedging Program for
additional discussion of market risk management related to these product
features. Nevertheless, differences between the change in fair value of GMWB
and GMAB embedded derivatives and the related hedging portfolio can be caused
by extreme and unanticipated movements in the equity markets, interest rates
and market volatility, policyholder behavior and our inability to purchase
hedging instruments at prices consistent with the desired risk and return
trade-off.  While we believe that our actions have reduced the risks related to
guaranteed benefits and guaranteed interest crediting, our exposure may not be
fully hedged, and we may be liable if counterparties are unable or unwilling to
pay, although the majority of our hedging derivative instruments are
exchange-traded, exchange-cleared and/or highly collateralized. We also remain
exposed to the risk that policyholder behavior and mortality may differ from
our assumptions. Finally, while we believe the impact of downturns in equity
markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates would be
mitigated by our economic hedging program, the occurrence of one or more of
these events could result in an increase in the liabilities associated with the
guaranteed benefits that is not fully offset by the hedging program, reducing
our net income and shareholders’ equity. See Notes 4 and 13 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, Item 1 – Business – Regulation, and Item 7. MD&A –
Critical Accounting Estimates for more information regarding these products.

Indemnity
claims could be made against us in connection with divested businesses.
We have provided financial guarantees and indemnities in connection with the
businesses we have sold, as described in greater detail in Note 15 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. While we do not currently believe the claims
under these indemnities will be material, it is possible that significant
indemnity claims could be made against us. If such a claim or claims were
successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, cash flows and liquidity. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information on these financial guarantees and indemnities.

Our
foreign operations expose us to risks that may affect our operations.
We provide insurance, investment and other financial products and services to
both businesses and individuals in more than 100 countries and jurisdictions. A
substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, and
we intend to continue to grow this business. Operations outside the United
States may be affected by regional economic downturns, changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, political upheaval, nationalization and other
restrictive government actions, which could also affect our other operations.

The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign
jurisdictions varies. AIG subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must
satisfy local regulatory requirements and it is possible that local licenses
may require AIG Parent to meet certain conditions. Licenses issued by foreign
authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation.
Consequently, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting
future business in some of the jurisdictions where they currently operate.
Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our results of
operations, depending on the magnitude of the event and our financial exposure
at that time in that country.

We
may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our
current and future distribution channels. Although we distribute
our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we maintain
relationships with certain key distributors. Distributors have in the past, and
may in the future, elect to renegotiate the terms of existing relationships, or
reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for
such reasons as industry consolidation of distributors or other industry
changes that increase the competition for access to distributors, developments
in legislation or regulation that affect our business, adverse developments in
our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related
risks. An interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our
ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our
businesses, operating results and financial condition.






 
  
  38
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



In addition, when our products are
distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or
control the manner of their distribution, despite our training and compliance
programs. If our products are distributed to customers for whom they are
unsuitable or distributed in any other inappropriate manner, we may suffer
reputational and other harm to our business. 

Significant
legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations or financial
condition. We are party to numerous legal proceedings, including
class actions and regulatory and governmental investigations. Due to the nature
of these proceedings, the lack of precise damage claims and the type of claims
we are subject to, we cannot currently quantify our ultimate or maximum
liability for these actions. Developments in these unresolved matters could
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or
consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Starr
International Company, Inc. (SICO) has brought suit against the United States
challenging the government’s assistance of AIG, pursuant to which (i) AIG
entered into a credit facility with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and
(ii) the United States received an approximately 80 percent ownership interest
in AIG.  The United States has alleged that AIG is obligated to indemnify
the United States for any recoveries in these lawsuits.  A determination
that the United States is liable for damages in such suits, together with a
determination that AIG is obligated to indemnify the United States for any such
damages, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated
financial condition and results of operations. For
a discussion of the SICO litigation and other unresolved matters, see Note 15
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

If we are unable to maintain
the availability of our electronic data systems and safeguard the security of
our data, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, which could
adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.  We
use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer,
employee, and company data and information. Some of these systems in turn, rely
upon third-party systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to
access these systems to perform necessary business functions, including
providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to
existing policies, filing and paying claims, administering variable annuity
products and mutual funds, providing customer support and managing our
investment portfolios. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability
to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to
conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and
customers. In the event of a natural disaster, a computer virus, unauthorized
access, a terrorist attack or other disruption inside or outside the U.S., our
systems may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners
for an extended period of time, and our employees may be unable to perform
their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled
or destroyed. Our systems have in the past been, and may in the future be,
subject to unauthorized access, such as physical or electronic break-ins or
unauthorized tampering. Like other global companies, we have, from time to
time, experienced threats to our data and systems, including malware and
computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, systems failures and disruptions.
There is no assurance that our security measures will provide fully effective
protection from such events.  AIG maintains cyber risk insurance, but this
insurance may not cover all costs associated with the consequences of personal,
confidential or proprietary information being compromised. In some cases, such
unauthorized access may not be immediately detected. This may impede or
interrupt our business operations and could adversely affect our consolidated
financial condition or results of operations. 

In addition, we routinely transmit, receive
and store personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other
electronic means. Although we attempt to keep such information confidential, we
may be unable to do so in all events, especially with clients, vendors, service
providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have
or use appropriate controls to protect personal, confidential or proprietary
information. Furthermore, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance
with laws and regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the
European Union or other jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory
organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy and security of the
information of clients, employees or others. The compromise of personal,
confidential or proprietary information could result in remediation costs,
legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. 

The
integration of companies we acquire from time to time may not be as successful
as we anticipate.
Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including operational, strategic,
financial, accounting, legal and tax risks. Difficulties in integrating an
acquired company may result in the acquired company performing differently than
we expected or in our failure to realize anticipated expense-related
efficiencies. Our existing businesses could also be negatively impacted by
acquisitions. Risks resulting from future acquisitions may have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 






 
  
  39
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



REGULATION


 
  
   
  
 



Our businesses are heavily
regulated and changes in regulation may affect our operations, increase our
insurance subsidiary capital requirements or reduce our profitability.
Our operations generally, and our insurance subsidiaries, in particular, are
subject to extensive and potentially conflicting supervision and regulation by
national authorities and by the various jurisdictions in which we do business.
Supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of our business and
financial condition. State and foreign regulators also periodically review and
investigate our insurance businesses, including AIG-specific and industry-wide
practices. The primary purpose of insurance regulation is the protection of our
insurance contract holders, and not our investors. The extent of domestic
regulation varies, but generally is governed by state statutes. These statutes
delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to state
insurance departments.

We strive to maintain all required licenses and approvals.
However, our businesses may not fully comply with the wide variety of
applicable laws and regulations. The relevant authority’s interpretation of the
laws and regulations also may change from time to time. Regulatory authorities
have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and
approvals. If we do not have the required licenses and approvals or do not
comply with applicable regulatory requirements, these authorities could
preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our
activities or impose substantial fines. Further, insurance regulatory
authorities have relatively broad discretion to issue orders of supervision,
which permit them to supervise the business and operations of an insurance company.

In the U.S., the RBC formula is designed to measure the
adequacy of an insurer’s statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in
its business. Virtually every state has adopted, in substantial part, the RBC
Model Law promulgated by the NAIC, which specifies the regulatory actions the
insurance regulator may take if an insurer’s RBC calculations fall below
specific thresholds. Those actions range from requiring an insurer to submit a
plan describing how it would regain a specified RBC ratio to a mandatory
regulatory takeover of the company. Regulators at the federal and international
levels are also considering the imposition of additional group-wide capital
requirements on certain insurance companies designated as systemically
important, that may augment state-law RBC standards that apply at the legal
entity level, and such capital calculations may be made on bases other than the
statutory statements of our insurance subsidiaries. See “Our status as a
nonbank systemically important financial institution, as well as the enactment
of Dodd-Frank, will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation,
which may materially and adversely affect our businesses, results of operations
and cash flows” and “Actions by foreign governments and regulators could
subject us to substantial additional regulation” below for additional
information on increased capital requirements that may be imposed on us. We
cannot predict the effect these initiatives may have on our business, results
of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

We provide products and services to certain employee
benefit plans that are subject to restrictions imposed by ERISA and the
Internal Revenue Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries
must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants
and beneficiaries, and that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage
in certain prohibited transactions. The DOL has proposed a new regulation that
could, if enacted as originally proposed, materially affect our ability to sell
and service certain types of annuities and other investment products.  If the
new DOL proposals are finalized as originally proposed, the investment-related
information and support that our advisors and employees could provide to
ERISA-covered plan sponsors, participants and IRA holders on a non-fiduciary
basis could be substantially limited compared to what is allowed under current
law, and these changes could have a material impact on the types and levels of
and compensation structures associated with the investment products and
services we provide.  For additional information, see Item 1 – Business –
Regulation and Item 7 – MD&A – Executive Overview – Consumer Insurance
Strategic Initiatives and Outlook.

The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign
jurisdictions varies. AIG subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must
satisfy local regulatory requirements and it is possible that local licenses
may require AIG Parent to meet certain conditions. Licenses issued by foreign
authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation.
Accordingly, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting
future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate.
Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our results of
operations, liquidity and financial condition, depending on the magnitude of
the event and our financial exposure at that time in that country. 

See Item 1. Business – Regulation for further discussion of
our regulatory environment.






 
  
  40
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



Our status as a nonbank systemically important financial
institution, as well as the enactment of Dodd-Frank, will subject us to
substantial additional federal regulation, which may materially and adversely
affect our businesses, results of operations and cash flows. On
July 21, 2010, Dodd-Frank, which effects comprehensive changes to the
regulation of financial services in the United States, was signed into law.
Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly created government agencies and bodies to
promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to
continue over the next few years.

We cannot predict the requirements of the regulations
ultimately adopted, the level and magnitude of supervision we may become
subject to, or how Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the financial
markets generally or our businesses, results of operations or cash flows. It is
possible that the regulations adopted under Dodd-Frank and our regulation by
the FRB as a nonbank SIFI could significantly alter our business practices,
limit our ability to engage in capital or liability management, require us to
raise additional capital, and impose burdensome and costly requirements and
additional costs. Some of the regulations may also affect the perceptions of
regulators, customers, counterparties, creditors or investors about our
financial strength and could potentially affect our financing costs.

See Item 1. Business – Regulation for further discussion of
the details of the aforementioned regulations to which AIG and its businesses
are subject.

Actions by foreign governments and regulators could
subject us to substantial additional regulation.  We
cannot predict the impact laws and regulations adopted in foreign jurisdictions
may have on the financial markets generally or our businesses, results of
operations or cash flows.  It is possible such laws and regulations, the impact
of our designation as a global systemically important insurer (G-SII), our
status as an Internationally Active Insurance Group (IAIG) and certain
initiatives by the FSB and the IAIS, including, but not limited to, the
application of HLA capital and the ongoing development of an ICS, and
implementation of Solvency II in the European Union, may significantly alter
our business practices, limit our ability to engage in capital or liability
management, require us to raise additional capital, and impose burdensome
requirements and additional costs.  It is possible that the laws and
regulations adopted in foreign jurisdictions will differ from one another, and
that they could be inconsistent with the laws and regulations of other
jurisdictions including the United States.

For further details on these international regulations and
their potential impact on AIG and its businesses, see Item 1. Business –
Regulation—Other Regulatory Developments.

The
USA PATRIOT Act, the Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar laws that
apply to us may expose us to significant penalties. The
operations of our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including,
in some cases, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which require companies to know
certain information about their clients and to monitor their transactions for
suspicious activities. Also, the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign
Assets Control administers regulations requiring U.S. persons to refrain from
doing business, or allowing their clients to do business through them, with
certain organizations or individuals on a prohibited list maintained by the U.S.
government or with certain countries. The United Kingdom, the European Union
and other jurisdictions maintain similar laws and regulations. Although we have
instituted compliance programs to address these requirements, there are
inherent risks in global transactions.

Attempts
to efficiently manage the impact of Regulation XXX and Actuarial Guideline
AXXX may fail in whole or in part resulting in an adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. The NAIC Model Regulation “Valuation of Life Insurance
Policies” (Regulation XXX) requires insurers to establish additional statutory
reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and
universal life policies with secondary guarantees. In addition, NAIC  Actuarial Guideline 38 (AG
38, also referred to as Guideline AXXX) clarifies the application of Regulation
XXX as to certain universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees. 

Our domestic Life Insurance Companies manage the capital
impact of statutory reserve requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline
AXXX through affiliated reinsurance transactions, to maintain their ability to
offer competitive pricing and successfully market such products. See Note 18 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on statutory
reserving requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX and our use of
affiliated reinsurance. The NAIC and other state and federal regulators continue
to focus on life insurers’ affiliated reinsurance transactions used to satisfy
certain reserve requirements or to manage the capital impact of certain
statutory reserve requirements, particularly transactions using captive
insurance companies or special purpose vehicles. While our domestic Life
Insurance Companies do 




 
  
  41
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



not use captive or special
purpose vehicle structures for this purpose, we cannot predict whether any
applicable insurance laws or regulations will be changed in a way that
prohibits or adversely impacts the use of affiliated reinsurance.  If
regulations change, our statutory reserve requirements could increase, and we
could be required to increase prices on our products or incur higher expenses
to obtain reinsurance, which could adversely affect our competitive position,
financial condition or results of operations. If our actions to efficiently
manage the impact of Regulation XXX or Guideline AXXX on future sales of term
and universal life insurance products are not successful, we may incur higher
operating costs or our sales of these products may be affected. 

New
regulations promulgated from time to time may affect our businesses, results of
operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively.
Legislators and regulators may periodically consider various proposals that may
affect the profitability of certain of our businesses. New regulations may even
affect our ability to conduct certain businesses at all, including proposals
relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial
institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions.
These proposals could also impose additional taxes on a limited subset of
financial institutions and insurance companies (either based on size,
activities, geography, government support or other criteria). It is uncertain
whether and how these and other such proposals would apply to us or our
competitors or how they could impact our consolidated results of operations,
financial condition and ability to compete effectively.

An
“ownership change” could limit our ability to utilize tax loss and credit
carryforwards to offset future taxable income. As of December 31,
2015, we had a U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately
$34.9 billion and $6.9 billion in foreign tax credits (tax loss and credit
carryforwards). Our ability to use such tax attributes to offset future taxable
income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as
defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code). In general, an ownership change will occur when the percentage of AIG
Parent's ownership (by value) of one or more “5-percent shareholders” (as
defined in the Code) has increased by more than 50 percent over the lowest
percentage owned by such shareholders at any time during the prior three years
(calculated on a rolling basis). An entity that experiences an ownership change
generally will be subject to an annual limitation on its pre-ownership change
tax loss and credit carryforwards equal to the equity value of the corporation
immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term,
tax-exempt rate posted monthly by the IRS (subject to certain adjustments). The
annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an
unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation on our ability to utilize tax
loss and credit carryforwards arising from an ownership change under Section
382 would depend on the value of our equity at the time of any ownership
change.  If we were to experience an “ownership change”, it is possible that a
significant portion of our tax loss and credit carryforwards could expire
before we would be able to use them to offset future taxable income.

On March 9, 2011, our Board adopted our Tax Asset
Protection Plan (the Plan) to help protect these tax loss and credit
carryforwards, and on January 8, 2014, the Board adopted an amendment to the
Plan, extending its expiration date to January 8, 2017. The amendment of the
Plan was ratified by our shareholders at our 2014 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.  At our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, shareholders adopted
a protective amendment to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation (Protective
Amendment), which is designed to prevent certain transfers of AIG Common Stock
that could result in an “ownership change.” At our 2014 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders, our shareholders approved an amendment to our Restated
Certificate of Incorporation to adopt a successor to the Protective Amendment
that contains substantially the same terms as the Protective Amendment and that
expires on May 12, 2017, the third anniversary of the date of our 2014 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.  

The Plan is designed to reduce the likelihood of an
“ownership change” by (i) discouraging any person or group from becoming a 4.99
percent shareholder and (ii) discouraging any existing 4.99 percent shareholder
from acquiring additional shares of AIG Common Stock. The Protective Amendment
generally restricts any transfer of AIG Common Stock that would (i) increase
the ownership by any person to 4.99 percent or more of AIG stock then
outstanding or (ii) increase the percentage of AIG stock owned by a Five
Percent Stockholder (as defined in the Plan). Despite the intentions of the
Plan and the Protective Amendment to deter and prevent an “ownership change”,
such an event may still occur. In addition, the Plan and the Protective
Amendment may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us, and may
discourage open market purchases of AIG Common Stock or a non-negotiated tender
or exchange offer for AIG Common Stock. Accordingly, the Plan and the
Protective Amendment may limit a shareholder’s ability to realize a premium
over the market price of AIG Common Stock in connection with any stock
transaction.






 
  
  42
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



Changes in tax laws could increase our corporate taxes,
reduce our deferred tax assets or make some of our products less attractive to
consumers.  Changes in tax laws or their
interpretation could negatively impact our business or results.   Some proposed
changes could have the effect of increasing our effective tax rate by reducing
deductions or increasing income inclusions, such as by limiting rules allowing
deferral of tax on certain foreign insurance income.  Conversely, other
changes, such as lowering the U.S. federal corporate tax rate discussed
recently in the context of tax reform, could reduce the value of our deferred
tax assets.  In addition, changes in the way foreign taxes can be credited
against U.S. taxes, methods for allocating interest expense, the ways insurance
companies calculate and deduct reserves for tax purposes, and impositions of
new or changed premium, value added and other indirect taxes could increase our
tax expense, thereby reducing earnings. 

In addition to proposing to change the taxation of
corporations in general and insurance companies in particular, the Executive
Branch of the U.S. Government and Congress have considered proposals that could
increase taxes on owners of insurance products.  For example, there have been
proposals that would have limited the deferral of tax on income from life and
annuity contracts relative to other investment products.  These changes could
reduce demand in the U.S. for life insurance and annuity contracts, or cause
consumers to shift from these contracts to other investments, which would
reduce our income due to lower sales of these products or potential increased
surrenders of in-force business. 

The need for governments to seek
additional revenue makes it likely that there will be continued proposals to
change tax rules in ways that would reduce our earnings.  However, it remains
difficult to predict whether or when there will be any tax law changes having a
material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

COMPETITION and employees


 
  
   
  
 



We face intense competition in
each of our businesses. Our businesses operate in highly
competitive environments, both domestically and overseas. Our principal
competitors are other large multinational insurance organizations, as well as
banks, investment banks and other nonbank financial institutions. The insurance
industry in particular is highly competitive. Within the U.S., our Non-Life
Insurance Companies compete with other stock companies, specialty insurance
organizations, mutual insurance companies and other underwriting organizations.
Our Life Insurance Companies compete in the U.S. with life insurance companies
and other participants in related financial services fields. Overseas, our
subsidiaries compete for business with the foreign insurance operations of
large U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local companies.

The past reduction of our credit ratings and past negative
publicity have made, and may continue to make, it more difficult to compete to
retain existing customers and to maintain our historical levels of business
with existing customers and counterparties. General insurance and life
insurance companies compete through a combination of risk acceptance criteria,
product pricing, and terms and conditions. Retirement services companies
compete through crediting rates and the issuance of guaranteed benefits. A
decline in our position as to any one or more of these factors could adversely
affect our profitability.

Competition
for employees in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to attract and
retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business.
Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key
people. Due to the intense competition in our industry for key employees with
demonstrated ability, we may be unable to hire or retain such employees. In
addition, we may experience higher than expected employee turnover and
difficulty attracting new employees as a result of uncertainty from strategic
actions and organizational and operational changes. Losing any of our key
people also could have a material adverse effect on our operations given their
skills, knowledge of our business, years of industry experience and the
potential difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees. Our
results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely
affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining key employees.

Managing
key employee succession and retention is critical to our success.
We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession
of our senior management and other key employees. While we have succession
plans and long-term compensation plans designed to retain our employees, our
succession plans may not operate effectively and our compensation plans cannot
guarantee that the services of these employees will continue to be available to
us.






 
  
  43
  
 



 








TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Item 1A / risk factors


 
  
   
  
 



 



Employee error and misconduct may be
difficult to detect and prevent and may result in significant losses. There have been a number of cases involving
fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in
recent years and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur.
Instances of fraud, illegal acts, errors, failure to document transactions
properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, misuse of customer or
proprietary information, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements or
our internal policies may result in losses and/or reputational damage. It is not
always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the controls that
we have in place to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in
all cases.

ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS


 
  
   
  
 



Estimates used in the
preparation of financial statements and modeled results used in various areas
of our business may differ materially from actual experience. Our
financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP), which requires the application of accounting
policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. The accounting
policies that we consider most dependent on the application of estimates and
assumptions, and therefore may be viewed as critical accounting estimates, are
described in Item 7. MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting
estimates require the use of assumptions, some of which are highly uncertain at
the time of estimation. These estimates are based on judgment, current facts
and circumstances, and, when applicable, internally developed models.
Therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates, possibly in the
near term, and could have a material effect on our consolidated financial
statements.

In
addition, we employ models to price products, calculate reserves and value
assets, as well as evaluate risk and determine capital requirements, among
other uses. These models rely on estimates and projections that are inherently
uncertain, may use incomplete, outdated or incorrect data or assumptions and
may not operate properly. As our businesses continue to expand and evolve, the
number and complexity of models we employ has grown, increasing our exposure to
error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated
input data, controls and assumptions and the controls we have in place to
mitigate their risk may not be effective in all cases.

Changes in accounting principles
and financial reporting requirements could impact our reported results of
operations and our reported financial position.  Our financial statements are subject to the
application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised.   Accordingly, from
time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards
issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB). The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been
issued but are not yet required to be implemented is disclosed in Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.   

The FASB and International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)
have ongoing projects to revise accounting standards for insurance contracts.  The
FASB has focused on disclosures for short-duration insurance contracts, which
primarily relate to our property casualty products, and on targeted
improvements to accounting measurements and disclosures for long-duration
insurance contracts, which primarily relate to our life and annuity products. 
The IASB continues to contemplate significant changes to accounting measurements
for both short and long-duration insurance contracts. While the final
resolution of changes to U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting
Standards pursuant to these projects remains unclear, changes to the manner in
which we account for insurance products could have a significant impact on our
future financial reports, operations, capital management and business. 
Further, the adoption of a new insurance contracts standard as well as other
future accounting standards could have a material effect on our reported
results of operations and reported financial condition.

Changes in our assumptions
regarding the discount rate, expected rate of return, and expected compensation
for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased
expenses and reduce our profitability. We
determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on
assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, expected
increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. Changes in
these assumptions, including from the impact of a sustained low interest rate
environment, may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. See
Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on our
pension and postretirement benefit plans.













 
  
  44
  
 



 








  TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

 



ITEM 1B