Item 1A of this Annual Report
    and the other documents we file from time to time with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission.


 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 





    The
    Company


 


    Apartment Investment and Management Company, or Aimco, is a
    Maryland corporation incorporated on January 10, 1994. We
    are a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment
    trust, or REIT, engaged in the acquisition, ownership,
    management and redevelopment of apartment properties. As of
    December 31, 2007, we owned or managed a real estate
    portfolio of 1,169 apartment properties containing 203,040
    apartment units located in 46 states, the District of
    Columbia and Puerto Rico. Based on apartment unit data compiled
    by the National Multi Housing Council, as of January 1,
    2007, we were the largest owner and operator of apartment
    properties in the United States. Our portfolio includes garden
    style, mid-rise and high-rise properties.


 


    We own an equity interest in, and consolidate the majority of,
    the properties in our owned real estate portfolio. These
    properties represent the consolidated real estate holdings in
    our financial statements, which we refer to as consolidated
    properties. In addition, we have an equity interest in, but do
    not consolidate for financial statement purposes, certain
    properties that are accounted for under the equity or cost
    methods. These properties represent our investment in
    unconsolidated real estate partnerships in our financial
    statements, which we refer to as unconsolidated properties.
    Additionally, we provide property management and asset
    management services to certain properties, and in certain cases
    we may indirectly own generally less than one percent of the
    operations of such



    
    2



Table of Contents




    properties through a partnership syndication or other fund. Our
    equity holdings and managed properties are as follows as of
    December 31, 2007:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    Total Portfolio


 




 


 


    Properties


 


 


    Units


 



 





    Consolidated properties



 


 


    657


 


 


 


    153,758


 





    Unconsolidated properties



 


 


    94


 


 


 


    10,878


 





    Property management



 


 


    36


 


 


 


    3,228


 





    Asset management



 


 


    382


 


 


 


    35,176


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    1,169


 


 


 


    203,040


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, AIMCO-GP, Inc. and
    AIMCO-LP, Inc., we own a majority of the ownership interests in
    AIMCO Properties, L.P., which we refer to as the Aimco Operating
    Partnership. As of December 31, 2007, we held an interest
    of approximately 91% in the common partnership units and
    equivalents of the Aimco Operating Partnership. We conduct
    substantially all of our business and own substantially all of
    our assets through the Aimco Operating Partnership. Interests in
    the Aimco Operating Partnership that are held by limited
    partners other than Aimco are referred to as
    “OP Units.” OP Units include common
    OP Units, partnership preferred units, or preferred
    OP Units, and high performance partnership units, or High
    Performance Units. Generally after a holding period of twelve
    months, holders of common OP Units may redeem such units
    for cash or, at the Aimco Operating Partnership’s option,
    Aimco Class A Common Stock, which we refer to as Common
    Stock. At December 31, 2007, we had 92,795,891 shares
    of our Common Stock outstanding and the Aimco Operating
    Partnership had 9,682,619 common OP Units and equivalents
    outstanding for a combined total of 102,478,510 shares of
    Common Stock and OP Units outstanding (excluding preferred
    OP Units).


 


    Since our initial public offering in July 1994, we have
    completed numerous transactions, including purchases of
    properties and interests in entities that own or manage
    properties, expanding our portfolio of owned or managed
    properties from 132 properties with 29,343 apartment units to a
    peak of over 2,100 properties with 379,000 apartment units. As
    of December 31, 2007, our portfolio of owned
    and/or
    managed properties consists of 1,169 properties with 203,040
    apartment units.


 


    Except as the context otherwise requires, “we,”
    “our,” “us” and the “Company”
    refer to Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership and their
    consolidated entities, collectively. As used herein, and except
    where the context otherwise requires, “partnership”
    refers to a limited partnership or a limited liability company
    and “partner” refers to a limited partner in a limited
    partnership or a member in a limited liability company.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    our Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    our Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to any of those reports that we file with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge
    as soon as reasonably practicable through our website at
    www.aimco.com. The information contained on our website is not
    incorporated into this Annual Report. Our Common Stock is listed
    on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “AIV.”
    In 2007, our chief executive officer submitted his annual
    corporate governance listing standards certification to the New
    York Stock Exchange, which certification was unqualified.


 



    Financial
    Information About Industry Segments


 


    We operate in two reportable segments: real estate (owning,
    operating and redeveloping apartments) and asset management
    (providing asset management and investment services). For
    further information on these segments, see Note 16 of the
    consolidated financial statements in Item 8, and
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Item 7.


 



    Business
    Overview


 


    Our principal financial objective is to increase long-term
    stockholder value per share, as measured by Economic Income,
    which consists of cash dividends and changes in Net Asset Value,
    or NAV, which is the estimated fair value of our assets, net of
    debt.



    
    3



Table of Contents




    We strive to meet our objectives through:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    property operations — using scale and technology to
    increase the effectiveness and efficiency of attracting and
    retaining apartment residents;




 



     
        • 

    
    redevelopment of properties — making substantial
    upgrades to the physical plant and, sometimes, to the services
    offered to residents;




 



     
        • 

    
    portfolio management —  allocating capital among
    geographic markets and apartment property types such as
    Class A, Class B, Class C with redevelopment
    potential, and affordable;




 



     
        • 

    
    earning fee income from providing asset management services such
    as property management, financial management, accounting,
    investor reporting, property debt financing, tax credit
    syndication, redevelopment and construction management;




 



     
        • 

    
    managing our cost of capital by using leverage that is largely
    long-term, laddered in maturity, non-recourse and property
    specific; and




 



     
        • 

    
    managing our general and administrative costs through increasing
    productivity.





 


    Our business is organized around three core activities: Property
    Operations, Redevelopment, and Asset Management. These three
    core activities, along with our financial strategy, are
    described in more detail below.


 



    Property
    Operations


 


    Our portfolio is comprised of two business components:
    conventional and affordable. Our conventional operations, which
    are market-rate apartments with rents paid by the resident,
    include 439 properties with 127,532 units. Our affordable
    operations consist of 312 properties with 37,104 units,
    with rents that are generally paid, in whole or part by a
    government agency.


 


    We operate a broad range of property types, from suburban
    garden-style to urban high-rise properties in 46 states,
    the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico at a broad range of
    average monthly rental rates, with most between $700 and $1,000
    per month, and reaching as high as $6,750 per month at some of
    our premier properties. This diversification insulates us, to
    some degree, from inevitable downturns in any one market.


 



    Conventional


 


    Our conventional operations currently are organized into four
    divisions and are further divided into 17 regional operating
    centers, or ROCs. A Regional Vice President, or RVP, supervises
    each ROC. To manage our nationwide portfolio more efficiently
    and to increase the benefits from our local management
    expertise, we have given direct responsibility for operations to
    the RVP with regular reviews with senior management. To enable
    the RVPs to focus on sales and service, as well as to improve
    financial control and budgeting, we have dedicated a regional
    financial officer to support each RVP. In addition, with the
    exception of routine maintenance, our specialized Construction
    Services group manages all
    on-site
    improvements, thus reducing the need for RVPs to spend time on
    oversight of construction projects. We seek to improve our
    corporate-level oversight of conventional property operations by
    developing better systems, standardizing business goals,
    operational measurements and internal reporting, and enhancing
    financial controls over field operations. Our objectives are to
    focus on the areas discussed below:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Customer Service.  Our operating culture is
    focused on our residents. Our goal is to provide our residents
    with consistent service in clean, safe and attractive
    communities. We evaluate our performance through a customer
    satisfaction tracking system. In addition, we emphasize the
    quality of our
    on-site
    employees through recruiting, training and retention programs,
    which we believe contributes to improved customer service and
    leads to increased occupancy rates and enhanced operational
    performance.




 



     
        • 

    
    Resident Selection and Retention.  In apartment
    properties, neighbors are a meaningful part of the product,
    together with the location of the property and the physical
    quality of the apartment units. Part of our conventional
    operations strategy is to focus on resident acquisition and
    retention — attracting and retaining credit-worthy
    residents who are good neighbors. We have structured goals and
    coaching for all of our sales personnel, a tracking system for
    inquiries and a standardized renewal communication program. We
    have






    
    4



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    standardized residential financial stability requirements and
    have policies and monitoring practices to maintain our resident
    quality.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Revenue Increases.  We seek to increase revenue
    by optimizing the balance between rental and occupancy rates. We
    are also focused on the automation of
    on-site
    operations, as we believe that timely and accurate collection of
    property performance and resident profile data will enable us to
    maximize revenue through better property management and leasing
    decisions. We have standardized policies for new and renewal
    pricing with timely data and analyses by floor-plan, thereby
    enabling us to maximize our ability to modify pricing, even in
    challenging sub-markets.




 



     
        • 

    
    Controlling Expenses.  Cost controls are
    accomplished by local focus at the ROC level and by taking
    advantage of economies of scale at the corporate level. As a
    result of the size of our portfolio and our regional
    concentrations of properties, we have the ability to spread over
    a large property base fixed costs for general and administrative
    expenditures and certain operating functions, such as
    purchasing, insurance and information technology.




 



     
        • 

    
    Ancillary Services.  We believe that our
    ownership and management of properties provide us with unique
    access to a customer base that allows us to provide additional
    services and thereby increase occupancy and rents, while also
    generating incremental revenue. We currently provide cable
    television, telephone services, appliance rental, and carport,
    garage and storage space rental at certain properties.





 



    Affordable


 


    We are among the largest owners and operators of affordable
    properties in the United States. Affordable housing properties
    are generally those properties for which all or a portion of the
    rent is paid by the United States Department of Housing and
    Urban Development, or HUD, and sometimes by state housing
    agencies. Affordable properties tend to have stable rents and
    occupancy due to government subsidies of rent payments and thus
    are much less affected by market fluctuations.


 



    Capital
    Replacements and Capital Improvements


 


    We believe that the physical condition and amenities of our
    apartment properties are important factors in our ability to
    maintain and increase rental rates. In 2007, we spent
    $102.6 million, or $772 per owned apartment unit, for
    Capital Replacements, which represent the share of expenditures
    that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired
    capital assets. Additionally, we spent $123.7 million for
    Capital Improvements, which are non-redevelopment capital
    expenditures that are made to enhance the value, profitability
    or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition.


 



    Redevelopment


 


    In addition to maintenance and improvements of our properties,
    we focus on the redevelopment of certain properties each year.
    We believe redevelopment of certain properties in superior
    locations provides advantages over
    ground-up
    development, enabling us to generate rents comparable to new
    properties with lower financial risk, in less time and with
    reduced delays associated with governmental permits and
    authorizations. Redevelopment work also includes seeking
    entitlements from local governments, which enhance the value of
    our existing portfolio by increasing density, that is, the right
    to add residential units to a site. We undertake a range of
    redevelopment projects: from those in which a substantial number
    of all available units are vacated for significant renovations
    to the property to those in which there is significant
    renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit
    improvements, typically done upon lease expirations without the
    need to vacate units on any wholesale or substantial basis. We
    have specialized Redevelopment and Construction Services groups,
    which include engineers, architects and construction managers,
    to oversee these projects.


 


    Our share of 2007 redevelopment expenditures on active and
    completed projects totaled $290.9 million and
    $61.9 million in conventional and affordable redevelopment
    projects, respectively. During 2007, we completed redevelopment
    projects at 16 conventional properties and one affordable
    property. We also delivered approximately 4,900 conventional and
    1,200 affordable redeveloped units, respectively, some of which
    are part of redevelopment



    
    5



Table of Contents




    projects completed in 2007 and some of which are part of ongoing
    projects. As of December 31, 2007, we had 48 conventional
    and 11 affordable redevelopment projects at various stages of
    completion as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


 


 


 


    Remaining
    


 




 


 


 


 


 


    Estimated
    


 




 


 


 


 


 


    Expenditures
    


 




 


 


    Properties


 


 


    (millions)


 



 





    Conventional redevelopment projects



 


 


    48


 


 


    $


    357.5


 





    Affordable redevelopment projects



 


 


    11


 


 


 


    64.9


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total active redevelopment projects



 


 


    59


 


 


    $


    422.4


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    In 2008, we expect to invest between $250.0 and
    $300.0 million in conventional redevelopment projects and
    we expect to invest approximately $72.0 million in
    affordable redevelopment projects, predominantly funded by
    third-party tax credit equity.


 



    Asset
    Management


 


    Asset management includes activities related to our owned
    portfolio of properties as well as services provided to
    affiliated partnerships. Within our owned portfolio, these
    activities include strategic capital allocation decisions and
    portfolio management activities, that is, transactions to buy,
    sell or modify our ownership interest in properties, including
    through the use of partnerships and joint ventures. The purpose
    of these transactions is to re-adjust Aimco investments to
    reflect our decisions regarding target allocations to geographic
    markets and to investment types. We provide similar services to
    affiliated partnerships, together with such other services as
    property management, financial management, accounting, investor
    reporting, property debt financings, tax credit syndication,
    redevelopment and construction management. When we provide these
    services with respect to our own investments, there is no
    separate compensation and their benefit is seen in property
    operating results and in investment gains. When we provide these
    services to affiliated third parties, they are separately
    compensated by agreed fees. While many teams at Aimco are
    involved in the delivery of these services, the negotiation of
    transactions for Aimco’s account and the oversight of
    services provided to others is primarily the responsibility of
    our Aimco Capital team.


 



    Conventional
    Portfolio Management


 


    Portfolio management involves the ongoing allocation of
    investment capital to meet our geographic and product type
    goals. We target geographic balance in Aimco’s diversified
    portfolio in order to optimize risk-adjusted returns and to
    avoid the risk of undue concentration in any particular market.
    We also seek to balance the portfolio by product type, with both
    high quality properties in excellent locations and also high
    land value properties that support redevelopment activities.


 


    During 2007, we refined our geographic allocation strategy to
    focus on the top 20 U.S. markets as measured by total
    market capitalization. We believe these markets to be deep,
    relatively liquid and possessing desirable long-term growth
    characteristics. They are primarily coastal markets, and also
    include a number of Sun Belt cities and Chicago, Illinois. We
    may also invest in other markets on an opportunistic basis. As
    we implement this strategy, we expect to reduce our investment
    in markets outside the top 20 markets and to increase our
    investment in the top 20 markets both by making
    acquisitions and by redevelopment spending. We expect too that
    increased geographic focus will add to our investment knowledge
    and increase operating efficiencies based on local economies of
    scale.


 


    During 2007, the top 20 U.S. markets contributed 70.8% of
    our net operating income, or NOI, from conventional property
    operations. Our top five markets by NOI contribution include the
    metropolitan areas of Washington, D.C., Los Angeles,
    California, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and Miami, Florida as
    well as the New England region. In 2007, we exited 11 markets
    and as of December 31, 2007, our conventional portfolio
    included 439 properties with 127,532 units in 42 markets.


 


    During 2007, we invested in our conventional portfolio both by
    funding redevelopment and by making acquisitions. At different
    times, we have made acquisitions through:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the direct acquisition of a property or portfolio of properties,
    or of ownership interests in such properties;






    
    6



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a merger or business combination with an entity that owns or
    controls a property, portfolio or other ownership interests in
    properties being acquired; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the purchase from third parties of additional interests in
    partnerships in which we own a general partnership interest.





 


    In 2007, we invested $290.9 million in redevelopment of
    properties in our conventional portfolio. We also completed
    acquisitions of 16 conventional properties, containing
    approximately 1,300 residential units for an aggregate purchase
    price of approximately $217.0 million (including
    transaction costs). These properties are located in New York,
    California, Florida and Illinois. We also acquired additional
    interests in 48 partnerships (including VMS National Properties
    Joint Venture) for an aggregate purchase price of
    $219.8 million (including transaction costs, assumption of
    debt and other consideration).


 


    Portfolio management also includes dispositions of properties
    located within markets we intend to exit, properties in less
    favored locations within our target markets, and properties that
    do not meet our long-term investment criteria. Property sales
    proceeds are used to fund redevelopment spending, acquisitions,
    and such other corporate purposes as debt reduction, preferred
    stock redemption and, in January 2008, a special dividend. In
    2007, we sold 46 conventional properties generating net cash
    proceeds to us, after repayment of existing debt, payment of
    transaction costs and distributions to limited partners, of
    $125.5 million.


 


    Portfolio management can include the use of partnerships and
    joint ventures to allow us to attract and serve high quality
    investment partners, and to rebalance efficiently our geographic
    market allocation of capital while maintaining our local
    operating platform and its operational scale. For example,
    during 2007, we entered into a joint venture agreement that
    provides for the co-ownership of three multi-family properties
    with 1,382 units located in west Los Angeles. We retained a
    53% ownership interest in the properties and sold a 47% interest
    generating net cash proceeds of approximately
    $202.0 million. We will provide a variety of asset
    management services to our investment partner, including
    continuing property management, in return for asset management
    and other fees. During 2008, we plan to pursue similar joint
    ventures.


 


    During 2007, we earned $15.6 million in asset management
    fees from 14 affiliated partnerships owning conventional
    properties.


 



    Affordable
    Portfolio Management


 


    The portfolio management strategy for our affordable portfolio
    is similar to that for our conventional portfolio. During 2007,
    we invested $61.9 million in redevelopment of affordable
    properties, funded primarily by proceeds from the sale of tax
    credits to institutional partners. We made no acquisitions of
    affordable properties and we made $7.0 million of
    acquisitions of partnership interests in partnerships owning
    affordable properties. As with conventional properties, we also
    seek to dispose of properties that are inconsistent with our
    long-term investment and operating strategies. During 2007, we
    sold 30 properties from our affordable portfolio, generating net
    cash proceeds to us, after repayment of existing debt, payment
    of transaction costs and distributions to limited partners, of
    $15.4 million. As of December 31, 2007, our affordable
    portfolio included 312 properties with 37,104 units.


 


    During 2007, we earned $58.2 million in asset management
    fees from 78 affiliated partnerships owning affordable
    properties.


 



    Financial
    Strategy


 


    We are focused on minimizing our cost of capital on a
    risk-adjusted basis. We primarily use non-recourse property debt
    with laddered maturities and minimize reliance on corporate
    debt. The lower risk inherent in non-recourse property debt
    permits us to operate with higher debt leverage and a lower
    weighted average cost of capital. During 2007, we closed
    property loans totaling $1,816.6 million at an average
    interest rate of 6.10%, which included the refinancing of
    property loans totaling $772.8 million with prior interest
    rates averaging 7.05%. In addition to the refinancing activity,
    the property loans included placing loans on newly acquired
    properties, new financings on existing properties, redevelopment
    loans and the modification of terms on existing property debt.
    We use floating rate property and corporate debt to provide
    lower interest costs over time at a level that considers



    
    7



Table of Contents




    acceptable earnings volatility. We are also focused on
    maintaining liquidity, and as of December 31, 2007, had
    available resources totaling $675 million.


 



    Competition


 


    In attracting and retaining residents to occupy our properties
    we compete with numerous other housing alternatives. Our
    properties compete directly with other rental apartments, as
    well as with condominiums and single-family homes that are
    available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our
    properties are located. Principal factors of competition include
    rent or price charged, attractiveness of the location and
    property and quality and breadth of services. The number of
    competitive properties relative to demand in a particular area
    has a material effect on our ability to lease apartment units at
    our properties and on the rents we charge. In certain markets
    there exists oversupply of single family homes and condominiums
    that affects the pricing and occupancy of our rental apartments.
    Additionally, we compete with other real estate investors,
    including other apartment REITs, pension and investment funds,
    partnerships and investment companies in acquiring, redeveloping
    and managing apartment properties. This competition affects our
    ability to acquire properties we want to add to our portfolio
    and the price that we pay in such acquisitions.


 



    Taxation


 


    We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code,
    commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994,
    and intend to continue to operate in such a manner. Our current
    and continuing qualification as a REIT depends on our ability to
    meet the various requirements imposed by the Code, which are
    related to organizational structure, distribution levels,
    diversity of stock ownership and certain restrictions with
    regard to owned assets and categories of income. If we qualify
    for taxation as a REIT, we will generally not be subject to
    United States Federal corporate income tax on our taxable income
    that is currently distributed to stockholders. This treatment
    substantially eliminates the “double taxation” (at the
    corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from
    investment in a corporation.


 


    Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to United States
    Federal income and excise taxes in various situations, such as
    on our undistributed income. We also will be required to pay a
    100% tax on any net income on non-arm’s length transactions
    between us and a TRS (described below) and on any net income
    from sales of property that was property held for sale to
    customers in the ordinary course. We and our stockholders may be
    subject to state or local taxation in various state or local
    jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business or
    our stockholders reside. In addition, we could also be subject
    to the alternative minimum tax, or AMT, on our items of tax
    preference. The state and local tax laws may not conform to the
    United States Federal income tax treatment. Any taxes imposed on
    us reduce our operating cash flow and net income.


 


    Certain of our operations (property management, asset
    management, risk, etc.) are conducted through taxable REIT
    subsidiaries, each of which we refer to as a TRS. A TRS is a
    C-corporation that has not elected REIT status and as such is
    subject to United States Federal corporate income tax. We use
    TRS entities to facilitate our ability to offer certain services
    and activities to our residents and investment partners, as
    these services and activities generally cannot be offered
    directly by the REIT.


 



    Regulation


 



    General


 


    Apartment properties and their owners are subject to various
    laws, ordinances and regulations, including those related to
    real estate broker licensing and regulations relating to
    recreational facilities such as swimming pools, activity centers
    and other common areas. Changes in laws increasing the potential
    liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or
    increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions,
    as well as changes in laws affecting development, construction
    and safety requirements, may result in significant unanticipated
    expenditures, which would adversely affect our net income and
    cash flows from operating activities. In addition, future
    enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws or other
    laws regulating multifamily housing may reduce rental revenue or
    increase operating costs in particular markets.



    
    8



Table of Contents





    Environmental


 


    Various Federal, state and local laws subject property owners or
    operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal
    or remediation, of certain hazardous substances present on a
    property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to
    whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for,
    the release or presence of the hazardous substances. In
    connection with the ownership, operation and management of
    properties, we could potentially be liable for environmental
    liabilities or costs associated with our properties or
    properties we acquire or manage in the future. These and other
    risks related to environmental matters are described in more
    detail in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”


 



    Insurance


 


    Our primary lines of insurance coverage are property, general
    liability, and workers’ compensation. We believe that our
    insurance coverages adequately insure our properties against the
    risk of loss attributable to fire, earthquake, hurricane,
    tornado, flood, terrorism and other perils and adequately insure
    us against other risk. Our coverage includes deductibles,
    retentions and limits that are customary in the industry. We
    have established loss prevention, loss mitigation, claims
    handling, litigation management and loss reserving procedures to
    manage our exposure.


 



    Employees


 


    We currently have approximately 5,900 employees, of which
    approximately 4,400 are at the property level, performing
    various
    on-site
    functions, with the balance managing corporate and regional
    operations, including investment and debt transactions, legal,
    financial reporting, accounting, information systems, human
    resources and other support functions. Unions represent
    approximately 150 of our employees. We have never experienced a
    work stoppage and believe we maintain satisfactory relations
    with our employees.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted
    throughout this Annual Report, describe certain risks and
    uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.


 



    Failure
    to generate sufficient net operating income may limit our
    ability to pay dividends.


 


    Our ability to make payments to our investors depends on our
    ability to generate net operating income in excess of required
    debt payments and capital expenditure requirements. Net
    operating income may be adversely affected by events or
    conditions beyond our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the general economic climate;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition from other apartment communities and other housing
    options;




 



     
        • 

    
    local conditions, such as loss of jobs or an increase in the
    supply of apartments, that might adversely affect apartment
    occupancy or rental rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in governmental regulations and the related cost of
    compliance;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes) due
    to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by
    increased rents;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in tax laws and housing laws, including the enactment of
    rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily
    housing; and




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in interest rates and the availability of financing.






    
    9



Table of Contents



 



    Redevelopment
    and construction risks could affect our
    profitability.


 


    We intend to continue to redevelop certain of our properties.
    These activities are subject to the following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining,
    necessary zoning, occupancy, or other required governmental or
    third party permits and authorizations, which could result in
    increased costs or the delay or abandonment of opportunities;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may incur costs that exceed our original estimates due to
    increased material, labor or other costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to complete construction and lease up of a
    property on schedule, resulting in increased construction and
    financing costs and a decrease in expected rental revenues;




 



     
        • 

    
    occupancy rates and rents at a property may fail to meet our
    expectations for a number of reasons, including changes in
    market and economic conditions beyond our control and the
    development by competitors of competing communities;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at
    all, for the proposed development of a property, which may cause
    us to delay or abandon an opportunity;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may abandon opportunities that we have already begun to
    explore for a number of reasons, including changes in local
    market conditions or increases in construction or financing
    costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover expenses already
    incurred in exploring those opportunities;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may incur liabilities to third parties during the
    redevelopment process, for example, in connection with resident
    lease terminations, or managing existing improvements on the
    site prior to resident lease terminations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    loss of a key member of project team could adversely affect our
    ability to deliver redevelopment projects on time and within our
    budget.





 



    If we
    are not successful in our acquisition of properties, our results
    of operations could be adversely affected.


 


    The selective acquisition of properties is a component of our
    strategy. However, we may not be able to complete transactions
    successfully in the future. Although we seek to acquire
    properties when such acquisitions increase our net income, Funds
    From Operations or net asset value, such transactions may fail
    to perform in accordance with our expectations. In particular,
    following acquisition, the value and operational performance of
    a property may be diminished if obsolescence or neighborhood
    changes occur before we are able to redevelop or sell the
    property.


 



    Our
    existing and future debt financing could render us unable to
    operate, result in foreclosure on our properties or prevent us
    from making distributions on our equity.


 


    Our strategy is generally to incur debt to increase the return
    on our equity while maintaining acceptable interest coverage
    ratios. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we had a
    ratio of free cash flow (net operating income less spending for
    capital replacements) to combined interest expense and preferred
    stock dividends of 1.6:1. Our organizational documents do not
    limit the amount of debt that we may incur, and we have
    significant amounts of debt outstanding. Payments of principal
    and interest may leave us with insufficient cash resources to
    operate our properties or pay distributions required to be paid
    in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We are also
    subject to the risk that our cash flow from operations will be
    insufficient to make required payments of principal and
    interest, and the risk that existing indebtedness may not be
    refinanced or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as
    favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we fail to
    make required payments of principal and interest on secured
    debt, our lenders could foreclose on the properties securing
    such debt, which would result in loss of income and asset value
    to us. As of December 31, 2007, substantially all of the
    properties that we owned or controlled were encumbered by debt.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Increases
    in interest rates would increase our interest
    expense.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately
    $1,754.4 million of variable-rate indebtedness outstanding.
    Of the total debt subject to variable interest rates, floating
    rate tax-exempt bond financing was $698.4 million. Floating
    rate tax-exempt bond financing is benchmarked against the
    Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Municipal
    Swap Index, or SIFMA, rate (previously the Bond Market
    Association index), which since 1981 has averaged 68% of the
    30-day LIBOR
    rate. If this relationship continues, an increase in
    30-day LIBOR
    of 1.0% (0.68% in tax-exempt interest rates) would result in our
    income before minority interests and cash flows being reduced by
    $15.3 million on an annual basis. This would be offset by
    variable rate interest income earned on certain assets,
    including cash and cash equivalents and notes receivable, as
    well as interest that is capitalized on a portion of this
    variable rate debt incurred in connection with our redevelopment
    activities. Considering these offsets, the same increase in
    30-day LIBOR
    would result in our income before minority interests being
    reduced by $6.5 million on an annual basis.


 



    Covenant
    restrictions may limit our ability to make payments to our
    investors.


 


    Some of our debt and other securities contain covenants that
    restrict our ability to make distributions or other payments to
    our investors unless certain financial tests or other criteria
    are satisfied. Our credit facility provides, among other things,
    that we may make distributions to our investors during any four
    consecutive fiscal quarters in an aggregate amount that does not
    exceed the greater of 95% of our Funds From Operations for such
    period or such amount as may be necessary to maintain our REIT
    status. Our outstanding classes of preferred stock prohibit the
    payment of dividends on our Common Stock if we fail to pay the
    dividends to which the holders of the preferred stock are
    entitled.


 



    Competition
    could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or
    maintain rents.


 


    Our apartment properties compete for residents with other
    housing alternatives, including other rental apartments,
    condominiums and single-family homes that are available for
    rent, as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family
    homes for sale. Competitive residential housing in a particular
    area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartments and
    to increase or maintain rental rates.  The current challenges in
    the credit and housing markets have increased housing inventory
    that competes with our apartment properties.


 



    We
    depend on distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries
    that they may be prohibited from making to us.


 


    All of our properties are owned, and all of our operations are
    conducted, by the Aimco Operating Partnership and our other
    subsidiaries. As a result, we depend on distributions and other
    payments from our subsidiaries in order to satisfy our financial
    obligations and make payments to our investors. The ability of
    our subsidiaries to make such distributions and other payments
    depends on their earnings and may be subject to statutory or
    contractual limitations. As an equity investor in our
    subsidiaries, our right to receive assets upon their liquidation
    or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims
    of their creditors. To the extent that we are recognized as a
    creditor of such subsidiaries, our claims may still be
    subordinate to any security interest in or other lien on their
    assets and to any of their debt or other obligations that are
    senior to our claims.


 



    Because
    real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may not be
    able to sell properties when appropriate.


 


    Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and cannot
    always be sold quickly. Our freedom to sell properties is also
    restricted by REIT tax rules. Thus, we may not be able to change
    our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or
    other market conditions. Our ability to dispose of assets in the
    future will depend on prevailing economic and market conditions.
    This could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition or results of operations.


 



    We may
    be subject to litigation associated with partnership
    acquisitions that could increase our expenses and prevent
    completion of beneficial transactions.


 


    We have engaged in, and intend to continue to engage in, the
    selective acquisition of interests in partnerships controlled by
    us that own apartment properties. In some cases, we have
    acquired the general partner of a partnership



    
    11



Table of Contents




    and then made an offer to acquire the limited partners’
    interests in the partnership. In these transactions, we may be
    subject to litigation based on claims that we, as the general
    partner, have breached our fiduciary duty to our limited
    partners or that the transaction violates the relevant
    partnership agreement or state law. Although we intend to comply
    with our fiduciary obligations and the relevant partnership
    agreements, we may incur additional costs in connection with the
    defense or settlement of this type of litigation. In some cases,
    this type of litigation may adversely affect our desire to
    proceed with, or our ability to complete, a particular
    transaction. Any litigation of this type could also have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of
    operations.


 



    We are
    self-insured for certain risks and the cost of insurance,
    increased claims activity or losses resulting from catastrophic
    events may affect our operating results and financial
    condition.


 


    We are self-insured for a portion of our consolidated
    properties’ exposure to casualty losses resulting from
    fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood and other perils. We
    recognize casualty losses or gains based on the net book value
    of the affected property and any related insurance proceeds. In
    many instances, the actual cost to repair or replace the
    property may exceed its net book value and any insurance
    proceeds. We also insure certain unconsolidated properties for a
    portion of their exposure to such losses. In addition, we are
    self-insured for a portion of our exposure to third-party claims
    related to our employee health insurance plans, workers’
    compensation coverage, and general liability exposure. With
    respect to our insurance obligations to unconsolidated
    properties and our exposure to claims of third parties, we
    establish reserves at levels that reflect our known and
    estimated losses. The ultimate cost of losses and the impact of
    unforeseen events may vary materially from recorded reserves,
    and variances may adversely affect our operating results and
    financial condition. We purchase insurance (or reinsurance where
    we insure unconsolidated properties) to reduce our exposure to
    losses and limit our financial losses on large individual risks.
    The availability and cost of insurance are determined by market
    conditions outside our control. No assurance can be made that we
    will be able to obtain and maintain insurance at the same levels
    and on the same terms as we do today. If we are not able to
    obtain or maintain insurance in amounts we consider appropriate
    for our business, or if the cost of obtaining such insurance
    increases materially, we may have to retain a larger portion of
    the potential loss associated with our exposures to risks. The
    extent of our losses in connection with catastrophic events is a
    function of the severity of the event and the total amount of
    exposure in the affected area. When we have geographic
    concentration of exposures, a single catastrophe (such as an
    earthquake) or destructive weather trend affecting a region may
    have a significant impact on our financial condition and results
    of operations. We cannot accurately predict catastrophes, or the
    number and type of catastrophic events that will affect us. As a
    result, our operating and financial results may vary
    significantly from one period to the next. While we anticipate
    and plan for losses, there can be no assurance that our
    financial results will not be adversely affected by our exposure
    to losses arising from catastrophic events in the future that
    exceed our previous experience and assumptions.


 



    We
    depend on our senior management.


 


    Our success depends upon the retention of our senior management,
    including Terry Considine, our chief executive officer and
    president. There are no assurances that we would be able to find
    qualified replacements for the individuals who make up our
    senior management if their services were no longer available.
    The loss of services of one or more members of our senior
    management team could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations. We do
    not currently maintain key-man life insurance for any of our
    employees. The loss of any member of senior management could
    adversely affect our ability to pursue effectively our business
    strategy.


 



    Government
    housing regulations may limit the opportunities at some of our
    properties and failure to comply with resident qualification
    requirements may result in financial penalties and/or loss of
    benefits.


 


    We own consolidated and unconsolidated equity interests in
    certain properties and manage other properties that benefit from
    governmental programs intended to provide housing to people with
    low or moderate incomes. These programs, which are usually
    administered by HUD or state housing finance agencies, typically
    provide mortgage insurance, favorable financing terms,
    tax-credit equity, or rental assistance payments to the property
    owners. As a condition of the receipt of assistance under these
    programs, the properties must comply with various requirements,
    which typically limit rents to pre-approved amounts and impose
    restrictions on resident incomes.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    Failure to comply with these requirements and restrictions may
    result in financial penalties or loss of benefits. We usually
    need to obtain the approval of HUD in order to manage, or
    acquire a significant interest in, a HUD-assisted property. We
    may not always receive such approval.


 



    Laws
    benefiting disabled persons may result in our incurrence of
    unanticipated expenses.


 


    Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all
    places intended to be used by the public are required to meet
    certain Federal requirements related to access and use by
    disabled persons. Likewise, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of
    1988, or FHAA, requires apartment properties first occupied
    after March 13, 1990, to be accessible to the handicapped.
    These and other Federal, state and local laws may require
    modifications to our properties, or affect renovations of the
    properties. Noncompliance with these laws could result in the
    imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants
    and also could result in an order to correct any non-complying
    feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures.
    Although we believe that our properties are substantially in
    compliance with present requirements, we may incur unanticipated
    expenses to comply with the ADA and the FHAA in connection with
    the ongoing operation or redevelopment of our properties.


 



    Potential
    liability or other expenditures associated with potential
    environmental contamination may be costly.


 


    Various Federal, state and local laws subject property owners or
    operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal
    or remediation, of certain hazardous substances present on a
    property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to
    whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for,
    the release or presence of the hazardous substances. The
    presence of, or the failure to manage or remedy properly,
    hazardous substances may adversely affect occupancy at affected
    apartment communities and the ability to sell or finance
    affected properties. In addition to the costs associated with
    investigation and remediation actions brought by government
    agencies, and potential fines or penalties imposed by such
    agencies in connection therewith, the presence of hazardous
    substances on a property could result in claims by private
    plaintiffs for personal injury, disease, disability or other
    infirmities. Various laws also impose liability for the cost of
    removal, remediation or disposal of hazardous substances through
    a licensed disposal or treatment facility. Anyone who arranges
    for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances is
    potentially liable under such laws. These laws often impose
    liability whether or not the person arranging for the disposal
    ever owned or operated the disposal facility. In connection with
    the ownership, operation and management of properties, we could
    potentially be liable for environmental liabilities or costs
    associated with our properties or properties we acquire or
    manage in the future.


 



    Moisture
    infiltration and resulting mold remediation may be
    costly.


 


    We have been named as a defendant in lawsuits that have alleged
    personal injury and property damage as a result of the presence
    of mold. In addition, we are aware of lawsuits against owners
    and managers of multifamily properties asserting claims of
    personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of
    mold, some of which have resulted in substantial monetary
    judgments or settlements. We have only limited insurance
    coverage for property damage loss claims arising from the
    presence of mold and for personal injury claims related to mold
    exposure. We have implemented policies, procedures, third-party
    audits and training, and include a detailed moisture intrusion
    and mold assessment during acquisition due diligence. We believe
    these measures will prevent or eliminate mold exposure from our
    properties and will minimize the effects that mold may have on
    our residents. To date, we have not incurred any material costs
    or liabilities relating to claims of mold exposure or to abate
    mold conditions. Because the law regarding mold is unsettled and
    subject to change we can make no assurance that liabilities
    resulting from the presence of or exposure to mold will not have
    a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
    condition or results of operations.


 



    We may
    fail to qualify as a REIT.


 


    If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be allowed a
    deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders in computing
    our taxable income, and we will be subject to Federal income tax
    at regular corporate rates, including any applicable alternative
    minimum tax. This would substantially reduce our funds available
    for payment to our investors. Unless entitled to relief under
    certain provisions of the Code, we also would be disqualified
    from taxation



    
    13



Table of Contents




    as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during
    which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. In addition, our failure
    to qualify as a REIT would place us in default under our primary
    credit facilities.


 


    We believe that we operate, and have always operated, in a
    manner that enables us to meet the requirements for
    qualification as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes. Our
    continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our
    satisfaction of certain asset, income, investment,
    organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other
    requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the
    asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market values
    of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise
    determination, and for which we will not obtain independent
    appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly
    asset requirements also depends upon our ability to manage
    successfully the composition of our income and assets on an
    ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an
    instrument as debt or equity for Federal income tax purposes may
    be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the
    application of the REIT qualification requirements. Accordingly,
    there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, or
    the IRS, will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or
    other issuers constitutes a violation of the REIT requirements.
    Moreover, future economic, market, legal, tax or other
    considerations may cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT, or our
    Board of Directors may determine to revoke our REIT status.


 



    REIT
    distribution requirements limit our available
    cash.


 


    As a REIT, we are subject to annual distribution requirements,
    which limit the amount of cash we retain for other business
    purposes, including amounts to fund our growth. We generally
    must distribute annually at least 90% of our net REIT
    taxable income, excluding any net capital gain, in order for our
    distributed earnings not to be subject to corporate income tax.
    We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply
    with the requirements of the Code. However, differences in
    timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual
    receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds
    on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution
    requirement of the Code.


 



    Limits
    on ownership of shares in our charter may result in the loss of
    economic and voting rights by purchasers that violate those
    limits.


 


    Our charter limits ownership of our Common Stock by any single
    stockholder (applying certain “beneficial ownership”
    rules under the Federal securities laws) to 8.7% of our
    outstanding shares of Common Stock, or 15% in the case of
    certain pension trusts, registered investment companies and
    Mr. Considine. Our charter also limits ownership of our
    Common Stock and preferred stock by any single stockholder to
    8.7% of the value of the outstanding Common Stock and preferred
    stock, or 15% in the case of certain pension trusts, registered
    investment companies and Mr. Considine. The charter also
    prohibits anyone from buying shares of our capital stock if the
    purchase would result in us losing our REIT status. This could
    happen if a transaction results in fewer than 100 persons
    owning all of our shares of capital stock or results in five or
    fewer persons (applying certain attribution rules of the Code)
    owning 50% or more of the value of all of our shares of capital
    stock. If anyone acquires shares in excess of the ownership
    limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the Code
    for REITs:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the transfer will be considered null and void;




 



     
        • 

    
    we will not reflect the transaction on our books;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may demand repayment of any dividends received by the
    affected person on those shares;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may redeem the shares;




 



     
        • 

    
    the affected person will not have any voting rights for those
    shares; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the shares (and all voting and dividend rights of the shares)
    will be held in trust for the benefit of one or more charitable
    organizations designated by us.





 


    We may purchase the shares of capital stock held in trust at a
    price equal to the lesser of the price paid by the transferee of
    the shares or the then current market price. If the trust
    transfers any of the shares of capital stock, the affected
    person will receive the lesser of the price paid for the shares
    or the then current market price. An individual who acquires
    shares of capital stock that violate the above rules bears the
    risk that the individual:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    may lose control over the power to dispose of such shares;






    
    14



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the
    market price of the shares increases;




 



     
        • 

    
    may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares
    if the market price decreases; and




 



     
        • 

    
    may be required to repay to us any distributions received from
    us as a result of his or her ownership of the shares.





 



    Our
    charter may limit the ability of a third party to acquire
    control of us.


 


    The 8.7% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of
    precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without
    the consent of our Board of Directors. Our charter authorizes
    our Board of Directors to issue up to 510,587,500 shares of
    capital stock. As of December 31, 2007,
    426,157,736 shares were classified as Common Stock, of
    which 92,795,891 were outstanding, and 84,429,764 shares
    were classified as preferred stock, of which 24,950,200 were
    outstanding. Under our charter, our Board of Directors has the
    authority to classify and reclassify any of our unissued shares
    of capital stock into shares of capital stock with such
    preferences, rights, powers and restrictions as our Board of
    Directors may determine. The authorization and issuance of a new
    class of capital stock could have the effect of delaying or
    preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change
    in control were in our stockholders’ best interests.


 



    Maryland
    business statutes may limit the ability of a third party to
    acquire control of us.


 


    As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to various Maryland
    laws that may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire
    us and increasing the difficulty of consummating any such
    offers, even if an acquisition would be in our
    stockholders’ best interests. The Maryland General
    Corporation Law restricts mergers and other business combination
    transactions between us and any person who acquires beneficial
    ownership of shares of our stock representing 10% or more of the
    voting power without our Board of Directors’ prior
    approval. Any such business combination transaction could not be
    completed until five years after the person acquired such voting
    power, and generally only with the approval of stockholders
    representing 80% of all votes entitled to be cast and
    662/3%
    of the votes entitled to be cast, excluding the interested
    stockholder, or upon payment of a fair price. Maryland law also
    provides generally that a person who acquires shares of our
    capital stock that represent 10% or more of the voting power in
    electing directors will have no voting rights unless approved by
    a vote of two-thirds of the shares eligible to vote.
    Additionally, Maryland law provides, among other things, that
    the board of directors has broad discretion in adopting
    stockholders’ rights plans and has the sole power to fix
    the record date, time and place for special meetings of the
    stockholders. In addition, Maryland law provides that
    corporations that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    have at least three directors who are not employees of the
    entity or related to an acquiring person; and




 



     
        • 

    
    are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934,





 


    may elect in their charter or bylaws or by resolution of the
    board of directors to be subject to all or part of a special
    subtitle that provides that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the corporation will have a staggered board of directors;




 



     
        • 

    
    any director may be removed only for cause and by the vote of
    two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of
    directors generally, even if a lesser proportion is provided in
    the charter or bylaws;




 



     
        • 

    
    the number of directors may only be set by the board of
    directors, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or
    bylaws;




 



     
        • 

    
    vacancies may only be filled by the remaining directors, even if
    the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the secretary of the corporation may call a special meeting of
    stockholders at the request of stockholders only on the written
    request of the stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority
    of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting, even if the
    procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws.





 


    To date, we have not made any of the elections described above.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B