Item 1A of this Annual Report and the other documents we
    file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission.



 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    The
    Company


 


    Apartment Investment and Management Company, or Aimco, is a
    Maryland corporation incorporated on January 10, 1994. We
    are a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment
    trust, or REIT. Our principal financial objective is to provide
    predictable and attractive returns to our stockholders. Our
    business plan to achieve this objective is described in the
    Business Overview section.


 


    Through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, AIMCO-GP, Inc. and
    AIMCO-LP Trust, we own a majority of the ownership interests in
    AIMCO Properties, L.P., which we refer to as the Aimco Operating
    Partnership. As of December 31, 2010, we held an interest
    of approximately 93% in the common partnership units and
    equivalents of the Aimco Operating Partnership. We conduct
    substantially all of our business and own substantially all of
    our assets through the Aimco Operating Partnership. Interests in
    the Aimco Operating Partnership that are held by limited
    partners other than Aimco are referred to as
    “OP Units.” OP Units include common
    partnership units, high performance partnership units and
    partnership preferred units, which we refer to as common
    OP Units, High Performance Units and preferred
    OP Units, respectively. At December 31, 2010,
    117,642,872 shares of our Common Stock were outstanding and
    the Aimco Operating Partnership had 8,470,013 common partnership
    units and equivalents outstanding for a combined total of
    126,112,885 shares of Common Stock, common partnership
    units and equivalents outstanding.


 


    Since our initial public offering in July 1994, we have
    completed numerous transactions, including purchases of
    properties and interests in entities that own or manage
    properties, expanding our portfolio of owned or managed
    properties from 132 properties with 29,343 apartment units to a
    peak of over 2,100 properties with 379,000 apartment units. As
    of December 31, 2010, our portfolio of owned
    and/or
    managed properties consists of 768 properties with 122,694
    apartment units.




    
    2



Table of Contents





    Except as the context otherwise requires, “we,”
    “our,” “us” and the “Company”
    refer to Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership and their
    consolidated entities, collectively. As used herein, and except
    where the context otherwise requires, “partnership”
    refers to a limited partnership or a limited liability company
    and “partner” refers to a limited partner in a limited
    partnership or a member in a limited liability company.


 



    Business
    Overview


 


    Our principal financial objective is to provide predictable and
    attractive returns to our stockholders. Our business plan to
    achieve this objective is to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    own and operate a broadly diversified portfolio of primarily
    class “B/B+” assets with properties concentrated in
    the 20 largest markets in the United States (as measured by
    total apartment value, which is the estimated total market value
    of apartment properties in a particular market);




 



     
        • 

    
    improve our portfolio by selling assets with lower projected
    returns and reinvesting those proceeds through the purchase of
    new assets or additional investment in existing assets in our
    portfolio, including increased ownership or
    redevelopment; and




 



     
        • 

    
    provide financial leverage primarily by the use of non-recourse,
    long-dated, fixed-rate property debt and perpetual preferred
    equity.





 


    Our business is organized around two core activities: Property
    Operations and Portfolio Management. We continue to simplify our
    business, including de-emphasizing transactional based activity
    fees and a corresponding reduction in personnel involved in
    those activities. Our core activities, along with our financial
    strategy, are described in more detail below.


 



    Property
    Operations


 


    Our owned real estate portfolio is comprised of two business
    components: conventional and affordable property operations,
    which also comprise our reportable segments. Our conventional
    property operations consist of market-rate apartments with rents
    paid by the resident and included 219 properties with
    68,972 units as of December 31, 2010. Our affordable
    property operations consist of apartments with rents that are
    generally paid, in whole or part, by a government agency and
    consisted of 228 properties with 26,540 units as of
    December 31, 2010. Affordable properties tend to have
    relatively more stable rents and higher occupancy due to
    government rent payments and thus are much less affected by
    market fluctuations. Our conventional and affordable properties
    generated 87% and 13%, respectively, of our proportionate
    property net operating income (as defined in
    Item 7) during the year ended December 31, 2010.
    For the three months ended December 31, 2010, our
    conventional portfolio monthly rents averaged $1,052 and
    provided 62% operating margins. These average rents increased
    about 1% from average rents of $1,042 for the three months ended
    December 31, 2009.


 


    Our property operations currently are organized into five
    geographic areas. To manage our nationwide portfolio more
    efficiently and to increase the benefits from our local
    management expertise, we have given direct responsibility for
    operations within each area to an area operations leader with
    regular senior management reviews. To enable the area operations
    leaders to focus on sales and service, as well as to improve
    financial control and budgeting, we have dedicated an area
    financial officer to support each area operations leader, and
    with the exception of routine maintenance, our specialized
    Construction Services group manages all
    on-site
    capital spending, thus reducing the need for the area operations
    leaders to spend time on oversight of construction projects.


 


    We seek to improve our oversight of property operations by:
    upgrading systems; standardizing business processes, operational
    measurements and internal reporting; and enhancing financial
    controls over field operations. Our objectives are to focus on
    the areas discussed below:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Customer Service.  Our operating culture is
    focused on our residents. Our goal is to provide our residents
    with consistent service in clean, safe and attractive
    communities. We evaluate our performance through a customer
    satisfaction tracking system. In addition, we emphasize the
    quality of our
    on-site
    employees through recruiting, training and retention programs,
    which we believe contributes to improved customer service and
    leads to increased occupancy rates and enhanced operational
    performance.







    
    3



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Resident Selection and Retention.  In apartment
    properties, neighbors are a meaningful part of the product,
    together with the location of the property and the physical
    quality of the apartment units. Part of our property operations
    strategy is to focus on resident acquisition and
    retention — attracting and retaining credit-worthy
    residents who are good neighbors. We have structured goals and
    coaching for all of our sales personnel, a tracking system for
    inquiries and a standardized renewal communication program. We
    have standardized residential financial stability requirements
    and have policies and monitoring practices to maintain our
    resident quality.




 



     
        • 

    
    Revenue Management.  For our conventional
    properties, we have a centralized revenue management system that
    leverages people, processes and technology to work in
    partnership with our area operational management teams to
    develop rental rate pricing. We seek to increase revenue and net
    operating income by optimizing the balance between rental and
    occupancy rates, as well as taking into consideration the cost
    of preparing an apartment unit for a new tenant. We are also
    focused on careful measurements of
    on-site
    operations, as we believe that timely and accurate collection of
    property performance and resident profile data will enable us to
    maximize revenue through better property management and leasing
    decisions, as well as the automation of certain aspects of
    on-site
    operations, to enable our
    on-site
    employees to focus more of their time on customer service. We
    have standardized policies for new and renewal pricing with
    timely data and analyses by floor-plan, thereby enabling us to
    respond quickly to changing supply and demand for our product
    and maximize rental revenue.




 



     
        • 

    
    Controlling Expenses.  Cost controls are
    accomplished by local focus at the area level; taking advantage
    of economies of scale at the corporate level; and through
    electronic procurement.




 



     
        • 

    
    Ancillary Services.  We believe that our
    ownership and management of properties provide us with unique
    access to a customer base that allows us to provide additional
    services and thereby increase occupancy and rents, while also
    generating incremental revenue. We currently provide cable
    television, telephone services, appliance rental, and carport,
    garage and storage space rental at certain properties.




 



     
        • 

    
    Maintaining and Improving Property Quality.  We
    believe that the physical condition and amenities of our
    apartment properties are important factors in our ability to
    maintain and increase rental rates. In 2010, for properties
    included in continuing operations, we invested
    $74.7 million, or $848 per owned apartment unit, in Capital
    Replacements, which represent the share of additions that are
    deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital
    assets. Additionally, for properties included in continuing
    operations, we invested $45.4 million, or $515 per owned
    apartment unit, in Capital Improvements, which are
    non-redevelopment capital additions that are made to enhance the
    value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its
    original purchase condition.





 



    Portfolio
    Management


 


    Portfolio Management involves the ongoing allocation of
    investment capital to meet our geographic and product type
    goals. We target geographic balance in Aimco’s diversified
    portfolio in order to optimize risk-adjusted returns and to
    avoid the risk of undue concentration in any particular market.
    We also seek to balance the portfolio by product type, with both
    high quality properties in excellent locations and also high
    land value properties that support redevelopment activities.


 


    Our geographic allocation strategy focuses on the 20 largest
    markets in the United States (as measured by total apartment
    value) to reduce volatility in and our dependence on particular
    areas of the country. We believe these markets are deep,
    relatively liquid and possess desirable long-term growth
    characteristics. They are primarily coastal markets, and also
    include a number of Sun Belt cities and Chicago, Illinois. We
    may also invest in other markets on an opportunistic basis. We
    expect that increased geographic focus will also add to our
    investment knowledge and increase operating efficiencies based
    on local economies of scale.


 


    Our portfolio strategy also focuses on asset type and quality.
    Our target allocation of capital to conventional and affordable
    properties is 90% and 10%, respectively, of our Net Asset Value,
    which is the estimated fair value of our assets, net of
    liabilities and preferred equity. For conventional assets, we
    focus on the ownership of primarily
    B/B+ assets.
    We measure conventional property asset quality based on average
    rents compared to local market





    
    4



Table of Contents





    average rents as reported by a third-party provider of
    commercial real estate performance and analysis, with A-quality
    assets earning rents greater than 125% of local market average,
    B-quality assets earning rents 90% to 125% of local market
    average and C-quality assets earning rents less than 90% of
    local market average.


 


    Portfolio management involves strategic portfolio and capital
    allocation decisions such as transactions to buy or sell
    properties, or modify our ownership interest in properties,
    including the use of partnerships and joint ventures, or to
    increase our investment in existing properties through
    redevelopment. We generally seek to sell assets with lower
    projected returns, which are often in markets less desirable
    than our target markets, and reinvest those proceeds through the
    purchase of new assets or additional investment in existing
    assets in our portfolio. The purpose of these transactions is to
    adjust our investments to reflect decisions regarding target
    allocations to geographic markets and between conventional and
    affordable properties.


 


    We believe redevelopment of certain properties in superior
    locations provides advantages over
    ground-up
    development, enabling us to generate rents comparable to new
    properties with lower financial risk, in less time and with
    reduced delays associated with governmental permits and
    authorizations. We believe redevelopment also provides superior
    risk adjusted returns with lower volatility compared to
    ground-up
    development. Redevelopment work may also include seeking
    entitlements from local governments, which enhance the value of
    our existing portfolio by increasing density, that is, the right
    to add residential units to a site. We have historically
    undertaken a range of redevelopment projects: from those in
    which a substantial number of all available units are vacated
    for significant renovations to the property, to those in which
    there is significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas
    or unit improvements, typically done upon lease expirations
    without the need to vacate units on any wholesale or substantial
    basis. We have a specialized Redevelopment and Construction
    Services group to oversee these projects.


 


    During 2010, we increased our allocation of capital to our
    target markets by disposing of 24 conventional properties
    located primarily outside of our target markets or in less
    desirable locations within our target markets and by investing
    $26.4 million in redevelopment of conventional properties
    included in continuing operations. As of December 31, 2010,
    our conventional portfolio included 219 properties with
    68,972 units in 38 markets. As of December 31, 2010,
    conventional properties comprised 88% of our Net Asset Value and
    conventional properties in our target markets comprised 88% of
    the Net Asset Value attributable to our conventional properties.
    Our top five markets by net operating income contribution
    include the metropolitan areas of Washington, D.C.; Los
    Angeles, California; Chicago, Illinois; Boston, Massachusetts;
    and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.


 


    During 2010, we invested $3.1 million in redevelopment of
    affordable properties included in continuing operations, funded
    primarily by proceeds from the sale of tax credits to
    institutional partners. As with conventional properties, we also
    seek to dispose of affordable properties that are inconsistent
    with our long-term investment and operating strategies. During
    2010, we sold 27 properties from our affordable portfolio. As of
    December 31, 2010, our affordable portfolio included 228
    properties with 26,540 units and our affordable properties
    comprised 12% of our Net Asset Value.


 



    Financial
    Strategy


 


    Our leverage strategy seeks to balance increasing financial
    returns with the risks inherent with leverage. At
    December 31, 2010, approximately 86% of our leverage
    consisted of property-level, non-recourse, long-dated,
    fixed-rate, amortizing debt and 13% consisted of perpetual
    preferred equity, a combination which helps to limit our
    refunding and
    re-pricing
    risk. At December 31, 2010, we had no outstanding corporate
    level debt. Our leverage strategy limits refunding risk on our
    property-level debt. At December 31, 2010, the weighted
    average maturity of our property-level debt was 7.8 years,
    with 2% of our debt maturing in 2011, less than 9% maturing in
    2012, and on average approximately 7% maturing in each of 2013,
    2014 and 2015. Long duration, fixed-rate liabilities provide a
    hedge against increases in interest rates and inflation.
    Approximately 91% of our property-level debt is fixed-rate. Of
    the $104.9 million of property debt maturing during 2011,
    we completed the refinance of $79.4 million in February
    2011, and we are focusing on refinancing our property debt
    maturing during 2012 through 2015 to extend maturities and lock
    in current low interest rates.


 


    During 2010, we repaid the remaining $90.0 million on our
    term loan. We also expanded our credit facility from
    $180.0 million to $300.0 million, providing additional
    liquidity for short-term or unexpected cash





    
    5



Table of Contents





    requirements. As of December 31, 2010, we had the capacity
    to borrow $260.3 million pursuant to our credit facility
    (after giving effect to $39.7 million outstanding for
    undrawn letters of credit). The revolving credit facility
    matures May 1, 2013, and may be extended for an additional
    year, subject to certain conditions.


 



    Competition


 


    In attracting and retaining residents to occupy our properties
    we compete with numerous other housing alternatives. Our
    properties compete directly with other rental apartments as well
    as condominiums and single-family homes that are available for
    rent or purchase in the markets in which our properties are
    located. Principal factors of competition include rent or price
    charged, attractiveness of the location and property and quality
    and breadth of services. The number of competitive properties
    relative to demand in a particular area has a material effect on
    our ability to lease apartment units at our properties and on
    the rents we charge. In certain markets there exists an
    oversupply of single family homes and condominiums and a
    reduction of households, both of which affect the pricing and
    occupancy of our rental apartments.


 


    We also compete with other real estate investors, including
    other apartment REITs, pension and investment funds,
    partnerships and investment companies in acquiring,
    redeveloping, managing, obtaining financing for and disposing of
    apartment properties. This competition affects our ability to:
    acquire properties we want to add to our portfolio and the price
    that we pay in such acquisitions; finance or refinance
    properties in our portfolio and the cost of such financing; and
    dispose of properties we no longer desire to retain in our
    portfolio and the timing and price for which we dispose of such
    properties.


 



    Taxation


 


    We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code,
    commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994,
    and intend to continue to operate in such a manner. Our current
    and continuing qualification as a REIT depends on our ability to
    meet the various requirements imposed by the Code, which relate
    to organizational structure, distribution levels, diversity of
    stock ownership and certain restrictions with regard to owned
    assets and categories of income. If we qualify for taxation as a
    REIT, we will generally not be subject to United States Federal
    corporate income tax on our taxable income that is currently
    distributed to stockholders. This treatment substantially
    eliminates the “double taxation” (at the corporate and
    stockholder levels) that generally results from an investment in
    a corporation.


 


    Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to United States
    Federal income and excise taxes in various situations, such as
    on our undistributed income. We also will be required to pay a
    100% tax on any net income on non-arm’s length transactions
    between us and a TRS (described below) and on any net income
    from sales of property that was property held for sale to
    customers in the ordinary course. We and our stockholders may be
    subject to state or local taxation in various state or local
    jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business or
    our stockholders reside. In addition, we could also be subject
    to the alternative minimum tax, or AMT, on our items of tax
    preference. The state and local tax laws may not conform to the
    United States Federal income tax treatment. Any taxes imposed on
    us reduce our operating cash flow and net income.


 


    Certain of our operations or a portion thereof, including
    property management, asset management and risk management are
    conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of which we
    refer to as a TRS. A TRS is a
    C-corporation
    that has not elected REIT status and, as such, is subject to
    United States Federal corporate income tax. We use TRS entities
    to facilitate our ability to offer certain services and
    activities to our residents and investment partners that cannot
    be offered directly by a REIT. We also use TRS entities to hold
    investments in certain properties.


 


    The recently enacted Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance
    Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010 extends the 2001
    and 2003 tax rates for taxpayers that are taxable as
    individuals, trusts and estates through 2012, including the
    maximum 35% tax rate on ordinary income and the maximum 15% tax
    rate for long-term capital gains and qualified dividend income.
    Dividends paid by REITs will generally not constitute qualified
    dividend income eligible for the 15% tax rate for stockholders
    that are taxable as individuals, trusts and estates and will
    generally be taxable at the higher ordinary income tax rates.




    
    6



Table of Contents






    Regulation


 



    General


 


    Apartment properties and their owners are subject to various
    laws, ordinances and regulations, including those related to
    real estate broker licensing and regulations relating to
    recreational facilities such as swimming pools, activity centers
    and other common areas. Changes in laws increasing the potential
    liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or
    increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions,
    as well as changes in laws affecting development, construction
    and safety requirements, may result in significant unanticipated
    expenditures, which would adversely affect our net income and
    cash flows from operating activities. In addition, future
    enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws, such as
    legislation that has been considered in New York, or other laws
    regulating multifamily housing may reduce rental revenue or
    increase operating costs in particular markets.


 



    Dodd-Frank
    Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act


 


    In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
    Protection Act, or the Act, was signed into federal law. The
    provisions of the Act include new regulations for
    over-the-counter
    derivatives and substantially increased regulation and risk of
    liability for credit rating agencies, all of which could
    increase our cost of capital. The Act also includes provisions
    concerning corporate governance and executive compensation
    which, among other things, require additional executive
    compensation disclosures and enhanced independence requirements
    for board compensation committees and related advisors, as well
    as provide explicit authority for the Securities and Exchange
    Commission to adopt proxy access, all of which could result in
    additional expenses in order to maintain compliance. The Act is
    wide-ranging, and the provisions are broad with significant
    discretion given to the many and varied agencies tasked with
    adopting and implementing the Act. The majority of the
    provisions of the Act do not go into effect immediately and may
    be adopted and implemented over many months or years. As such,
    we cannot predict the full impact of the Act on our financial
    condition or results of operations.


 



    Environmental


 


    Various Federal, state and local laws subject property owners or
    operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal
    or remediation, of certain potentially hazardous materials
    present on a property. These materials may include lead-based
    paint, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, and petroleum-based
    fuels, among other miscellaneous materials. Such laws often
    impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator
    knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such
    materials. In connection with the ownership, operation and
    management of properties, we could potentially be liable for
    environmental liabilities or costs associated with our
    properties or properties we acquire or manage in the future.
    These and other risks related to environmental matters are
    described in more detail in Item 1A, “Risk
    Factors.”


 



    Insurance


 


    Our primary lines of insurance coverage are property, general
    liability, and workers’ compensation. We believe that our
    insurance coverages adequately insure our properties against the
    risk of loss attributable to fire, earthquake, hurricane,
    tornado, flood, terrorism and other perils, and adequately
    insure us against other risk. Our coverage includes deductibles,
    retentions and limits that are customary in the industry. We
    have established loss prevention, loss mitigation, claims
    handling and litigation management procedures to manage our
    exposure.


 



    Employees


 


    At December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    3,100 employees, of which approximately 2,400 were at the
    property level, performing various
    on-site
    functions, with the balance managing corporate and area
    operations, including investment and debt transactions, legal,
    financial reporting, accounting, information systems, human
    resources and other support functions. As of December 31,
    2010, unions represented 103 of our employees. We have never
    experienced a work stoppage and believe we maintain satisfactory
    relations with our employees.




    
    7



Table of Contents






    Available
    Information


 


    Our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    our Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    our Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to any of those reports that we file with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge
    as soon as reasonably practicable through our website at
    www.aimco.com. The information contained on our website
    is not incorporated into this Annual Report. Our Common Stock is
    listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
    “AIV.” In 2010, our chief executive officer submitted
    his annual corporate governance listing standards certification
    to the New York Stock Exchange, which certification was
    unqualified.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted
    throughout this Annual Report, describe certain risks and
    uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.


 



    Our
    existing and future debt financing could render us unable to
    operate, result in foreclosure on our properties, prevent us
    from making distributions on our equity or otherwise adversely
    affect our liquidity.


 


    We are subject to the risk that our cash flow from operations
    will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and
    interest, and the risk that existing indebtedness may not be
    refinanced or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as
    favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we fail to
    make required payments of principal and interest on secured
    debt, our lenders could foreclose on the properties and other
    collateral securing such debt, which would result in loss of
    income and asset value to us. As of December 31, 2010,
    substantially all of the properties that we owned or controlled
    were encumbered by debt. Our organizational documents do not
    limit the amount of debt that we may incur, and we have
    significant amounts of debt outstanding. Payments of principal
    and interest may leave us with insufficient cash resources to
    operate our properties or pay distributions required to be paid
    in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT.


 



    Disruptions
    in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain
    financing and the cost of available financing and could
    adversely affect our liquidity.


 


    Our ability to obtain financing and the cost of such financing
    depends on the overall condition of the United States credit
    markets and, to an important extent, on the level of involvement
    of certain government sponsored entities, specifically, Federal
    Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, and Federal
    National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, in secondary
    credit markets. In recent years, the United States credit
    markets (outside of multi-family) experienced significant
    liquidity disruptions, which caused the spreads on debt
    financings to widen considerably and made obtaining financing,
    both non-recourse property debt and corporate borrowings, such
    as our term loan or revolving credit facility, more difficult.


 


    During 2008, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, or FHFA, placed
    Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae into, and they currently remain
    under, conservatorship. In February 2011, the Obama
    Administration presented Congress with a set of proposals
    regarding the Federal government’s future role in the
    housing finance market, each of which included the winding down
    of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Freddie Mac’s and Fannie
    Mae’s future relationship with the Federal government and
    their future role in the financial markets is uncertain. Any
    significant reduction in Freddie Mac’s or Fannie Mae’s
    level of involvement in the secondary credit markets may
    adversely affect our ability to obtain non-recourse property
    debt financing. Additionally, further or prolonged disruptions
    in the credit markets may also affect our ability to renew our
    credit facility with similar commitments or the cost of
    financing when it matures in May 2014 (inclusive of a one year
    extension option).


 


    If our ability to obtain financing is adversely affected, we may
    be unable to satisfy scheduled maturities on existing financing
    through other sources of liquidity, which could result in lender
    foreclosure on the properties securing such debt and loss of
    income and asset value, each of which would adversely affect our
    liquidity.




    
    8



Table of Contents






    Increases
    in interest rates would increase our interest expense and reduce
    our profitability.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, on a consolidated basis, we had
    approximately $470.3 million of variable-rate indebtedness
    outstanding and $57.0 million of variable rate preferred
    stock outstanding. Of the total debt subject to variable
    interest rates, floating rate tax-exempt bond financing was
    approximately $374.4 million. Floating rate tax-exempt bond
    financing is benchmarked against the Securities Industry and
    Financial Markets Association Municipal Swap Index, or SIFMA,
    rate, which since 1989 has averaged 75% of the
    30-day LIBOR
    rate. If this historical relationship continues, we estimate
    that an increase in
    30-day LIBOR
    of 100 basis points (75 basis points for tax-exempt
    interest rates) with constant credit risk spreads would result
    in net income and net income attributable to Aimco common
    stockholders being reduced (or the amounts of net loss and net
    loss attributable to Aimco common stockholders being increased)
    by $3.9 million on an annual basis.


 


    At December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    $450.4 million in cash and cash equivalents, restricted
    cash and notes receivable, a portion of which bear interest at
    variable rates indexed to LIBOR-based rates, and which may
    mitigate the effect of an increase in variable rates on our
    variable-rate indebtedness and preferred stock discussed above.


 



    Failure
    to generate sufficient net operating income may adversely affect
    our liquidity, limit our ability to fund necessary capital
    expenditures or adversely affect our ability to pay
    dividends.


 


    Our ability to fund necessary capital expenditures on our
    properties depends on, among other things, our ability to
    generate net operating income in excess of required debt
    payments. If we are unable to fund capital expenditures on our
    properties, we may not be able to preserve the competitiveness
    of our properties, which could adversely affect our net
    operating income.


 


    Our ability to make payments to our investors depends on our
    ability to generate net operating income in excess of required
    debt payments and capital expenditure requirements. Our net
    operating income and liquidity may be adversely affected by
    events or conditions beyond our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the general economic climate;




 



     
        • 

    
    an inflationary environment in which the costs to operate and
    maintain our properties increase at a rate greater than our
    ability to increase rents which we can only do upon renewal of
    existing leases or at the inception of new leases;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition from other apartment communities and other housing
    options;




 



     
        • 

    
    local conditions, such as loss of jobs, unemployment rates or an
    increase in the supply of apartments, that might adversely
    affect apartment occupancy or rental rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in governmental regulations and the related cost of
    compliance;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in tax laws and housing laws, including the enactment of
    rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily
    housing; and




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in interest rates and the availability of financing.





 



    Covenant
    restrictions may limit our ability to make payments to our
    investors.


 


    Some of our debt and other securities contain covenants that
    restrict our ability to make distributions or other payments to
    our investors unless certain financial tests or other criteria
    are satisfied. Our credit facility provides, among other things,
    that we may make distributions to our investors during any four
    consecutive fiscal quarters in an aggregate amount that does not
    exceed the greater of 95% of our Funds From Operations for such
    period, subject to certain non-cash adjustments, or such amount
    as may be necessary to maintain our REIT status. Our outstanding
    classes of preferred stock prohibit the payment of dividends on
    our Common Stock if we fail to pay the dividends to which the
    holders of the preferred stock are entitled.




    
    9



Table of Contents






    Because
    real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may not be
    able to sell properties when appropriate.


 


    Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and cannot
    always be sold quickly. REIT tax rules also restrict our ability
    to sell properties. Thus, we may not be able to change our
    portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other
    market conditions. Our ability to dispose of assets in the
    future will depend on prevailing economic and market conditions,
    including the cost and availability of financing. This could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or
    results of operations.


 



    Competition
    could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or
    maintain rents.


 


    Our apartment properties compete for residents with other
    housing alternatives, including other rental apartments,
    condominiums and single-family homes that are available for
    rent, as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family
    homes for sale. Competitive residential housing in a particular
    area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartments and
    to increase or maintain rental rates. Recent challenges in the
    credit and housing markets have increased housing inventory that
    competes with our apartment properties.


 



    Our
    subsidiaries may be prohibited from making distributions and
    other payments to us.


 


    All of our properties are owned, and all of our operations are
    conducted, by the Aimco Operating Partnership and our other
    subsidiaries. As a result, we depend on distributions and other
    payments from the Aimco Operating Partnership and our other
    subsidiaries in order to satisfy our financial obligations and
    make payments to our investors. The ability of our subsidiaries
    to make such distributions and other payments depends on their
    earnings and cash flows and may be subject to statutory or
    contractual limitations. As an equity investor in our
    subsidiaries, our right to receive assets upon their liquidation
    or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims
    of their creditors. To the extent that we are recognized as a
    creditor of such subsidiaries, our claims may still be
    subordinate to any security interest in or other lien on their
    assets and to any of their debt or other obligations that are
    senior to our claims.


 



    Redevelopment
    and construction risks could affect our
    profitability.


 


    We intend to continue to redevelop certain of our properties.
    These activities are subject to the following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining,
    necessary zoning, occupancy, or other required governmental or
    third party permits and authorizations, which could result in
    increased costs or the delay or abandonment of opportunities;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may incur costs that exceed our original estimates due to
    increased material, labor or other costs, such as litigation;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to complete construction and lease up of a
    property on schedule, resulting in increased construction and
    financing costs and a decrease in expected rental revenues;




 



     
        • 

    
    occupancy rates and rents at a property may fail to meet our
    expectations for a number of reasons, including changes in
    market and economic conditions beyond our control and the
    development by competitors of competing communities;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at
    all, for the proposed development of a property, which may cause
    us to delay or abandon an opportunity;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may abandon opportunities that we have already begun to
    explore for a number of reasons, including changes in local
    market conditions or increases in construction or financing
    costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover expenses already
    incurred in exploring those opportunities;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may incur liabilities to third parties during the
    redevelopment process, for example, in connection with resident
    lease terminations, or managing existing improvements on the
    site prior to resident lease terminations; and







    
    10



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    loss of a key member of a project team could adversely affect
    our ability to deliver redevelopment projects on time and within
    our budget.





 



    We are
    insured for certain risks, and the cost of insurance, increased
    claims activity or losses resulting from casualty events may
    affect our operating results and financial
    condition.


 


    We are insured for a portion of our consolidated
    properties’ exposure to casualty losses resulting from
    fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood and other perils,
    which insurance is subject to deductibles and self-insurance
    retention. We recognize casualty losses or gains based on the
    net book value of the affected property and the amount of any
    related insurance proceeds. In many instances, the actual cost
    to repair or replace the property may exceed its net book value
    and any insurance proceeds. We also insure certain
    unconsolidated properties for a portion of their exposure to
    such losses. With respect to our consolidated properties, we
    recognize the uninsured portion of losses as part of casualty
    losses in the periods in which they are incurred. In addition,
    we are self-insured for a portion of our exposure to third-party
    claims related to our employee health insurance plans,
    workers’ compensation coverage and general liability
    exposure. With respect to our insurance obligations to
    unconsolidated properties and our exposure to claims of third
    parties, we establish reserves at levels that reflect our known
    and estimated losses. The ultimate cost of losses and the impact
    of unforeseen events may vary materially from recorded reserves,
    and variances may adversely affect our operating results and
    financial condition. We purchase insurance to reduce our
    exposure to losses and limit our financial losses on large
    individual risks. The availability and cost of insurance are
    determined by market conditions outside our control. No
    assurance can be made that we will be able to obtain and
    maintain insurance at the same levels and on the same terms as
    we do today. If we are not able to obtain or maintain insurance
    in amounts we consider appropriate for our business, or if the
    cost of obtaining such insurance increases materially, we may
    have to retain a larger portion of the potential loss associated
    with our exposures to risks.


 



    Natural
    disasters and severe weather may affect our operating results
    and financial condition.


 


    Natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes may
    result in significant damage to our properties. The extent of
    our casualty losses and loss in operating income in connection
    with such events is a function of the severity of the event and
    the total amount of exposure in the affected area. When we have
    geographic concentration of exposures, a single catastrophe
    (such as an earthquake) or destructive weather event (such as a
    hurricane) affecting a region may have a significant negative
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We
    cannot accurately predict natural disasters or severe weather,
    or the number and type of such events that will affect us. As a
    result, our operating and financial results may vary
    significantly from one period to the next. Although we
    anticipate and plan for losses, there can be no assurance that
    our financial results will not be adversely affected by our
    exposure to losses arising from natural disasters or severe
    weather in the future that exceed our previous experience and
    assumptions.


 



    We
    depend on our senior management.


 


    Our success depends upon the retention of our senior management,
    including Terry Considine, our chief executive officer. We have
    a succession planning and talent development process that is
    designed to identify potential replacements and develop our team
    members to provide depth in the organization and a bench of
    talent on which to draw. However, there are no assurances that
    we would be able to find qualified replacements for the
    individuals who make up our senior management if their services
    were no longer available. The loss of services of one or more
    members of our senior management team could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations. We do not currently maintain key-man life
    insurance for any of our employees.


 



    If we
    are not successful in our acquisition of properties, our results
    of operations could be adversely affected.


 


    The selective acquisition of properties is a component of our
    strategy. However, we may not be able to complete transactions
    successfully in the future. Although we seek to acquire
    properties when such acquisitions increase our property net
    operating income, Funds From Operations or Net Asset Value, such
    transactions may fail to perform in accordance with our
    expectations. In particular, following acquisition, the value
    and operational





    
    11



Table of Contents





    performance of a property may be diminished if obsolescence or
    neighborhood changes occur before we are able to redevelop or
    sell the property.


 



    We may
    be subject to litigation associated with partnership
    transactions that could increase our expenses and prevent
    completion of beneficial transactions.


 


    We have engaged in, and intend to continue to engage in, the
    selective acquisition of interests in partnerships controlled by
    us that own apartment properties. In some cases, we have
    acquired the general partner of a partnership and then made an
    offer to acquire the limited partners’ interests in the
    partnership. In these transactions, we may be subject to
    litigation based on claims that we, as the general partner, have
    breached our fiduciary duty to our limited partners or that the
    transaction violates the relevant partnership agreement or state
    law. Although we intend to comply with our fiduciary obligations
    and the relevant partnership agreements, we may incur additional
    costs in connection with the defense or settlement of this type
    of litigation. In some cases, this type of litigation may
    adversely affect our desire to proceed with, or our ability to
    complete, a particular transaction. Any litigation of this type
    could also have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition or results of operations.


 



    Government
    housing regulations may limit the opportunities at some of our
    properties and failure to comply with resident qualification
    requirements may result in financial penalties and/or loss of
    benefits, such as rental revenues paid by government agencies.
    Additionally, the government may cease to operate government
    housing programs which would result in a loss of
    benefits.


 


    We own consolidated and unconsolidated equity interests in
    certain properties and manage other properties that benefit from
    governmental programs intended to provide housing to people with
    low or moderate incomes. These programs, which are usually
    administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
    Development, or HUD, or state housing finance agencies,
    typically provide one or more of the following: mortgage
    insurance; favorable financing terms; tax-credit equity; or
    rental assistance payments to the property owners. As a
    condition of the receipt of assistance under these programs, the
    properties must comply with various requirements, which
    typically limit rents to pre-approved amounts and limit our
    choice of residents to those with incomes at or below certain
    levels. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in
    financial penalties or loss of benefits. We are usually required
    to obtain the approval of HUD in order to acquire or dispose of
    a significant interest in or manage a HUD-assisted property. We
    may not always receive such approval.


 


    Additionally, there is no guarantee that the government will
    continue to operate these programs. Any cessation of these
    government housing programs may result in our loss of the
    benefits we receive under these programs, including rental
    subsidies. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, for continuing
    operations, our rental revenues include $131.4 million,
    $126.9 million and $119.5 million, respectively, of
    subsidies from government agencies. Of the 2010 subsidy amounts,
    approximately 10.7% related to properties subject to housing
    assistance contracts that expire in 2011, which we anticipate
    renewing, and the remainder related to properties subject to
    housing assistance contracts that expire after 2011 and have a
    weighted average term of 10.8 years. Any loss of these
    benefits may adversely affect our liquidity and results of
    operations.


 



    Laws
    benefiting disabled persons may result in our incurrence of
    unanticipated expenses.


 


    Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all
    places intended to be used by the public are required to meet
    certain Federal requirements related to access and use by
    disabled persons. The Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, or
    FHAA, requires apartment properties first occupied after
    March 13, 1991, to comply with design and construction
    requirements for disabled access. For those projects receiving
    Federal funds, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 also has
    requirements regarding disabled access. These and other Federal,
    state and local laws may require modifications to our
    properties, or affect renovations of the properties.
    Noncompliance with these laws could result in the imposition of
    fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could
    result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which
    could result in substantial capital expenditures. Although we
    believe that our properties are substantially in compliance with
    present requirements, we may incur unanticipated expenses to
    comply with the ADA, the FHAA and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
    in connection with the ongoing operation or redevelopment of our
    properties.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    Potential
    liability or other expenditures associated with potential
    environmental contamination may be costly.


 


    Various Federal, state and local laws subject property owners or
    operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal
    or remediation, of certain potentially hazardous materials
    present on a property, including lead-based paint, asbestos,
    polychlorinated biphenyls, petroleum-based fuels, and other
    miscellaneous materials. Such laws often impose liability
    without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was
    responsible for, the release or presence of such materials. The
    presence of, or the failure to manage or remedy properly, these
    materials may adversely affect occupancy at affected apartment
    communities and the ability to sell or finance affected
    properties. In addition to the costs associated with
    investigation and remediation actions brought by government
    agencies, and potential fines or penalties imposed by such
    agencies in connection therewith, the improper management of
    these materials on a property could result in claims by private
    plaintiffs for personal injury, disease, disability or other
    infirmities. Various laws also impose liability for the cost of
    removal, remediation or disposal of these materials through a
    licensed disposal or treatment facility. Anyone who arranges for
    the disposal or treatment of these materials is potentially
    liable under such laws. These laws often impose liability
    whether or not the person arranging for the disposal ever owned
    or operated the disposal facility. In connection with the
    ownership, operation and management of properties, we could
    potentially be responsible for environmental liabilities or
    costs associated with our properties or properties we acquire or
    manage in the future.


 



    Moisture
    infiltration and resulting mold remediation may be
    costly.


 


    Although we are proactively engaged in managing moisture
    intrusion and preventing the presence of mold at our properties,
    it is not unusual for mold to be present at some units within
    the portfolio. We have implemented policies, procedures,
    third-party audits and training, and include a detailed moisture
    intrusion and mold assessment during acquisition due diligence.
    We believe these measures will manage mold exposure at our
    properties and will minimize the effects that mold may have on
    our residents. To date, we have not incurred any material costs
    or liabilities relating to claims of mold exposure or to abate
    mold conditions. We have only limited insurance coverage for
    property damage claims arising from the presence of mold and for
    personal injury claims related to mold exposure. Because the law
    regarding mold is unsettled and subject to change, we can make
    no assurance that liabilities resulting from the presence of or
    exposure to mold will not have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial condition or results of operations.


 



    We may
    fail to qualify as a REIT.


 


    If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be allowed a
    deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders in computing
    our taxable income, and we will be subject to Federal income tax
    at regular corporate rates, including any applicable alternative
    minimum tax. This would substantially reduce our funds available
    for distribution to our investors. Unless entitled to relief
    under certain provisions of the Code, we also would be
    disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years
    following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT.
    In addition, our failure to qualify as a REIT would place us in
    default under our primary credit facilities.


 


    We believe that we operate, and have always operated, in a
    manner that enables us to meet the requirements for
    qualification as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes. Our
    continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our
    satisfaction of certain asset, income, investment,
    organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other
    requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the
    asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market values
    of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise
    determination, and for which we do not obtain independent
    appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly
    asset requirements also depends upon our ability to manage
    successfully the composition of our income and assets on an
    ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an
    instrument as debt or equity for Federal income tax purposes may
    be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the
    application of the REIT qualification requirements. Accordingly,
    there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, or
    the IRS, will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or
    other issuers constitutes a violation of the REIT requirements.
    Moreover, future economic, market, legal, tax or other
    considerations may cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT, or our
    Board of Directors may determine to revoke our REIT status.




    
    13



Table of Contents






    REIT
    distribution requirements limit our available
    cash.


 


    As a REIT, we are subject to annual distribution requirements,
    which generally limit the amount of cash we retain for other
    business purposes, including amounts to fund our growth. We
    generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our net REIT
    taxable income, excluding any net capital gain, in order for our
    distributed earnings not to be subject to corporate income tax.
    We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply
    with the requirements of the Code. However, differences in
    timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual
    receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds
    on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution
    requirement of the Code.


 



    Limits
    on ownership of shares in our charter may result in the loss of
    economic and voting rights by purchasers that violate those
    limits.


 


    Our charter limits ownership of our Common Stock by any single
    stockholder (applying certain “beneficial ownership”
    rules under the Federal securities laws) to 8.7% (or up to 9.8%
    upon a waiver from our Board of Directors) of our outstanding
    shares of Common Stock, or 15% in the case of certain pension
    trusts, registered investment companies and Mr. Considine.
    Our charter also limits ownership of our Common Stock and
    preferred stock by any single stockholder to 8.7% of the value
    of the outstanding Common Stock and preferred stock, or 15% in
    the case of certain pension trusts, registered investment
    companies and Mr. Considine. The charter also prohibits
    anyone from buying shares of our capital stock if the purchase
    would result in us losing our REIT status. This could happen if
    a transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all
    of our shares of capital stock or results in five or fewer
    persons (applying certain attribution rules of the Code) owning
    50% or more of the value of all of our shares of capital stock.
    If anyone acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in
    violation of the ownership requirements of the Code for REITs:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the transfer will be considered null and void;




 



     
        • 

    
    we will not reflect the transaction on our books;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may demand repayment of any dividends received by the
    affected person on those shares;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may redeem the shares;




 



     
        • 

    
    the affected person will not have any voting rights for those
    shares; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the shares (and all voting and dividend rights of the shares)
    will be held in trust for the benefit of one or more charitable
    organizations designated by us.





 


    We may purchase the shares of capital stock held in trust at a
    price equal to the lesser of the price paid by the transferee of
    the shares or the then current market price. If the trust
    transfers any of the shares of capital stock, the affected
    person will receive the lesser of the price paid for the shares
    or the then current market price. An individual who acquires
    shares of capital stock that violate the above rules bears the
    risk that the individual:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    may lose control over the power to dispose of such shares;




 



     
        • 

    
    may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the
    market price of the shares increases;




 



     
        • 

    
    may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares
    if the market price decreases; and




 



     
        • 

    
    may be required to repay to us any distributions received from
    us as a result of his or her ownership of the shares.





 



    Our
    charter may limit the ability of a third party to acquire
    control of us.


 


    The 8.7% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of
    delaying or precluding acquisition of control of us by a third
    party without the consent of our Board of Directors. Our charter
    authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to
    510,587,500 shares of capital stock. As of
    December 31, 2010, 422,157,736 shares were classified
    as Common Stock, of which 117,642,872 were outstanding, and
    88,429,764 shares were classified as preferred stock,





    
    14



Table of Contents





    of which 24,900,114 were outstanding. Under our charter, our
    Board of Directors has the authority to classify and reclassify
    any of our unissued shares of capital stock into shares of
    capital stock with such preferences, conversion or other rights,
    voting powers restrictions, limitations as to dividends,
    qualifications or terms or conditions of redemptions as our
    Board of Directors may determine. The authorization and issuance
    of a new class of capital stock could have the effect of
    delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even
    if a change in control were in our stockholders’ best
    interests.


 



    The
    Maryland General Corporation Law may limit the ability of a
    third party to acquire control of us.


 


    As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to various Maryland
    laws that may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire
    us and increasing the difficulty of consummating any such
    offers, even if an acquisition would be in our
    stockholders’ best interests. The Maryland General
    Corporation Law, specifically the Maryland Business Combination
    Act, restricts mergers and other business combination
    transactions between us and any person who acquires, directly or
    indirectly, beneficial ownership of shares of our stock
    representing 10% or more of the voting power without our Board
    of Directors’ prior approval. Any such business combination
    transaction could not be completed until five years after the
    person acquired such voting power, and generally only with the
    approval of stockholders representing 80% of all votes entitled
    to be cast and
    662/3%
    of the votes entitled to be cast, excluding the interested
    stockholder, or upon payment of a fair price. The Maryland
    General Corporation Law, specifically the Maryland Control Share
    Acquisition Act, provides generally that a person who acquires
    shares of our capital stock representing 10% or more of the
    voting power in electing directors will have no voting rights
    unless approved by a vote of two-thirds of the shares eligible
    to vote. Additionally, the Maryland General Corporation Law
    provides, among other things, that the board of directors has
    broad discretion in adopting stockholders’ rights plans and
    has the sole power to fix the record date, time and place for
    special meetings of the stockholders. To date, we have not
    adopted a shareholders’ rights plan. In addition, the
    Maryland General Corporation Law provides that corporations that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    have at least three directors who are not officers or employees
    of the entity or related to an acquiring person; and




 



     
        • 

    
    has a class of equity securities registered under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,





 


    may elect in their charter or bylaws or by resolution of the
    board of directors to be subject to all or part of a special
    subtitle that provides that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the corporation will have a staggered board of directors;




 



     
        • 

    
    any director may be removed only for cause and by the vote of
    two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of
    directors generally, even if a lesser proportion is provided in
    the charter or bylaws;




 



     
        • 

    
    the number of directors may only be set by the board of
    directors, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or
    bylaws;




 



     
        • 

    
    vacancies may only be filled by the remaining directors, even if
    the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the secretary of the corporation may call a special meeting of
    stockholders at the request of stockholders only on the written
    request of the stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority
    of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting, even if the
    procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws.





 


    To date, we have not made any of the elections described above.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B