Item 1A of this Annual Report
    and the other documents we file from time to time with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission.


 



    PART I



 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business






 





    The
    Company


 


    Apartment Investment and Management Company, or Aimco, is a
    Maryland corporation incorporated on January 10, 1994. We
    are a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment
    trust, or REIT, engaged in the acquisition, ownership,
    management and redevelopment of apartment properties. As of
    December 31, 2006, we owned or managed a real estate
    portfolio of 1,256 apartment properties containing 216,413
    apartment units located in 46 states, the District of
    Columbia and Puerto Rico. Based on apartment unit data compiled
    by the National Multi Housing Council, as of January 1,
    2006, we were the largest owner of apartment properties in the
    United States. Our portfolio includes garden style, mid-rise and
    high-rise properties.


 


    We own an equity interest in, and consolidate the majority of,
    the properties in our owned real estate portfolio. These
    properties represent the consolidated real estate holdings in
    our financial statements, which we refer to as consolidated
    properties. In addition, we have an equity interest in, but do
    not consolidate for financial statement purposes, certain
    properties that are accounted for under the equity method. These
    properties represent our investment in unconsolidated real
    estate partnerships in our financial statements, which we refer
    to as unconsolidated properties. Additionally, we manage (both
    property and asset) but do not own an equity interest in other
    properties, although in certain cases we may indirectly own
    generally less than one percent of the operations of such



    
    2



Table of Contents




    properties through a partnership syndication or other fund. Our
    equity holdings and managed properties are as follows as of
    December 31, 2006:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


    Total Portfolio


 




 


 


    Properties


 


 


    Units


 



 





    Consolidated properties
    



 


 


    703


 


 


 


    162,432


 





    Unconsolidated properties
    



 


 


    102


 


 


 


    11,791


 





    Property management for third
    parties
    



 


 


    41


 


 


 


    3,573


 





    Asset management for third parties
    



 


 


    410


 


 


 


    38,617


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total
    



 


 


    1,256


 


 


 


    216,413


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, AIMCO-GP, Inc. and
    AIMCO-LP, Inc., we own a majority of the ownership interests in
    AIMCO Properties, L.P., which we refer to as the Aimco Operating
    Partnership. As of December 31, 2006, we held approximately
    a 90% interest in the common partnership units and equivalents
    of the Aimco Operating Partnership. We conduct substantially all
    of our business and own substantially all of our assets through
    the Aimco Operating Partnership. Interests in the Aimco
    Operating Partnership that are held by limited partners other
    than Aimco are referred to as “OP Units.” OP
    Units include common OP Units, partnership preferred units,
    or preferred OP Units, and high performance partnership units,
    or High Performance Units. Generally after a holding period of
    twelve months, holders of common OP Units may redeem such
    units for cash or, at the Aimco Operating Partnership’s
    option, Aimco Class A Common Stock, which we refer to as
    Common Stock. At December 31, 2006, we had
    96,820,252 shares of our Common Stock outstanding and the
    Aimco Operating Partnership had 10,135,562 common OP Units
    and equivalents outstanding for a combined total of
    106,955,814 shares of Common Stock and OP Units outstanding
    (excluding preferred OP Units).


 


    Since our initial public offering in July 1994, we have
    completed numerous transactions, expanding our portfolio of
    owned or managed properties from 132 properties with 29,343
    apartment units to 1,256 properties with 216,413 apartment units
    as of December 31, 2006. These transactions have included
    purchases of properties and interests in entities that own or
    manage properties, as well as corporate mergers.


 


    Except as the context otherwise requires, “we,”
    “our,” “us” and the “Company”
    refer to Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership and their
    consolidated entities, collectively. As used herein, and except
    where the context otherwise requires, “partnership”
    refers to a limited partnership or a limited liability company
    and “partner” refers to a limited partner in a limited
    partnership or a member in a limited liability company.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    our Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    our Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to any of those reports that we file with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge
    as soon as reasonably practicable through our website at
    www.aimco.com. The information contained on our website is not
    incorporated into this Annual Report. Our Common Stock is listed
    on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “AIV.”
    In 2006, our chief executive officer submitted his annual
    corporate governance listing standards certification to the New
    York Stock Exchange, which certification was unqualified.


 



    Financial
    Information About Industry Segments


 


    We operate in two reportable segments: real estate (owning and
    operating apartments) and investment management business
    (providing property management and other services relating to
    the apartment business to third parties and affiliates). For
    further information on these segments, see Note 16 of the
    consolidated financial statements in Item 8, and
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Item 7.


 



    Business
    Overview


 


    Our principal objective is to increase long-term stockholder
    value, which we believe results from increasing asset values,
    increasing operating cash flows and long-term, predictable Funds
    From Operations, or FFO (as defined by the National Association
    of Real Estate Investment Trusts), less capital spending for
    replacements. For a



    
    3



Table of Contents




    description of the meaning of FFO and its use and limitations as
    an operating measure, see the discussion titled “Funds From
    Operations” in Item 7.


 


    We strive to meet our objectives by focusing on property
    operations, generation of fees, portfolio management,
    reinvestment in properties, increasing land values through
    entitlements, managing our cost of capital by using leverage
    that is largely long-term, non-recourse and property specific,
    and managing our general and administrative costs through
    increasing productivity.


 



    Property
    Operations


 


    We divide property operations into two business components:
    conventional and affordable. Our conventional operations, which
    are market-rate apartments with rents paid by the resident,
    include 469 properties with 135,289 units. Aimco Capital
    conducts our affordable operations of 336 properties with
    38,934 units, which typically are apartments with rents
    frequently subsidized or paid by a government agency.


 


    Our property operations are characterized by diversification of
    product, location and price point. We operate a broad range of
    property types, from suburban garden-style to urban high-rise
    properties in 46 states, the District of Columbia and
    Puerto Rico at a broad range of average monthly rental rates,
    with most between $500 and $1,100 per month, and reaching
    as high as $6,500 per month at some of our premier
    properties. This geographic diversification insulates us, to
    some degree, from inevitable downturns in any one market.


 



    Conventional


 


    Our conventional operations are organized into four divisions,
    each of which is supervised by a Division Vice President,
    or DVP, and are further
    sub-divided
    into 17 regional operating centers, or ROCs. As changes in our
    portfolio occur, we reevaluate this structure. A Regional Vice
    President, or RVP, supervises each ROC. The ROCs are generally
    smaller business units with specialized operational, financial
    and human resource leadership. We seek to improve the operating
    results from our property operations by, among other methods,
    combining centralized financial control and uniform operating
    procedures with localized property management decision-making
    and market knowledge. To manage our nationwide portfolio more
    efficiently and to increase the benefits from our local
    management expertise, we have given direct responsibility for
    operations to the RVP with oversight from extensive regular
    reviews with senior management. To enable the RVPs to focus on
    sales and service, as well as improve financial control and
    budgeting, we have dedicated a regional financial officer to
    support each RVP. In addition, our construction services group
    handles all work on site beyond routine maintenance, thus
    reducing the need for RVPs to spend time on oversight of
    construction projects. We continue to improve our
    corporate-level oversight of conventional property operations by
    developing better systems, standardizing business goals,
    operational measurements and internal reporting, and enhancing
    financial controls over field operations. Our objectives are to
    focus on the areas discussed below:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Customer Service.  Our operating culture is to
    be focused on our customers. Our goal is to provide our
    residents with consistent service in clean, safe and attractive
    communities. We evaluate our performance through a customer
    satisfaction tracking system. In addition, we emphasize the
    quality of our
    on-site
    employees through recruiting, training and retention programs,
    which we believe contributes to improved customer service and
    leads to increased occupancy rates and enhanced performance.



 


     
        • 

    
    Resident Selection and Retention.  In apartment
    properties, neighbors are a part of the product, together with
    the location of the property and the physical quality of the
    apartment units. Part of our conventional operations strategy is
    to focus on resident acquisition and retention —
    attracting and retaining credit-worthy residents who are good
    neighbors. We have structured goals and coaching for all of our
    sales personnel, a tracking system for inquiries and a
    standardized renewal communication program. We have standardized
    residential financial stability requirements and have policies
    and monitoring practices to maintain our resident quality. We
    believe that the costs exceed the benefits when higher occupancy
    results from lowering of financial stability standards.



 


     
        • 

    
    Revenue Increases.  We increase rents where
    feasible and seek to improve occupancy rates. We are also
    focused on the automation of
    on-site
    operations, as we believe that timely and accurate collection of
    property






    
    4



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    performance and resident profile data will enable us to maximize
    revenue through better property management and leasing
    decisions. We have standardized policies for new and renewal
    pricing with timely data and analyses by floor-plan, thereby
    enabling us to maximize our ability to modify pricing, even in
    challenging
    sub-markets.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Controlling Expenses.  Cost controls are
    accomplished by local focus at the ROC level and by taking
    advantage of economies of scale at the corporate level. As a
    result of the size of our portfolio and our regional
    concentrations of properties, we have the ability to spread over
    a large property base fixed costs for general and administrative
    expenditures and certain operating functions, such as
    purchasing, insurance and information technology. We expanded
    our local vendor consolidation program and implemented an
    electronic procurement system to provide better ongoing control
    over purchasing decisions and to take advantage of volume
    discounts. We also are implementing initiatives to retain our
    current residents and reduce the time and costs associated with
    resident turnover. Additionally, we have focused on energy
    management and centralized media programs to control expenses.



 


     
        • 

    
    Ancillary Services.  We believe that our
    ownership and management of properties provide us with unique
    access to a customer base that allows us to provide additional
    services and thereby increase occupancy and rents, while also
    generating incremental revenue. We currently provide cable
    television, telephone services, appliance rental, and carport,
    garage and storage space rental at certain properties.





 



    Aimco
    Capital


 


    We are among the largest owners and operators of affordable
    properties in the United States. Aimco Capital was organized to
    focus on our affordable housing properties, the operations of
    which are most often subsidized or financed by the United States
    Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, state
    housing agencies or tax credit financing, and is led by a
    management team dedicated to this sector. Aimco Capital operates
    our affordable properties through three ROCs. Affordable
    properties tend to have stable rents and occupancy due to
    government subsidies and thus are much less affected by market
    circumstances.


 


    Aimco Capital also generates activity fees from transactions
    related to affordable holdings (including tax credit
    redevelopments, syndications, dispositions and refinancings),
    and asset management income from the financial management of our
    owned and operated affordable portfolio as well as two other
    large portfolios for which we provide asset management services
    only.


 



    Portfolio
    Management


 



    Conventional


 


    We view our conventional property portfolio in terms of
    “core” and “non-core” properties. Core
    properties are those properties that are located in markets
    where population and employment growth are expected to exceed
    national trends and where we believe there is potential for
    long-term growth at higher rates of return. Our core operations
    are focused in 27 markets, located primarily in coastal states
    as well as the Rocky Mountain region and Chicago. We plan to
    exit certain Texas and Midwest markets where the average
    four-year growth rate is projected to be below the average of
    the remainder of the core portfolio. At December 31, 2006,
    we had 270 conventional core properties, which generally we
    intend to hold and improve over the long-term. Within our core
    portfolio, the largest single market (Washington, D.C.)
    contributed approximately 10%, and the five largest markets
    (Washington, D.C., Southern California, New England,
    Philadelphia and Miami-Fort Lauderdale) together
    contributed approximately 38%, to income before depreciation and
    interest expense, or net operating income. At December 31,
    2006, we had 199 conventional non-core properties, which we
    generally intend to hold for investment for the intermediate
    term. Non-core properties are those properties located within
    the 26 markets we intend to exit or in less favored locations
    within the 27 markets that comprise our core portfolio. We
    exited six markets in 2006. During 2007, we expect to exit an
    additional eight markets and over the next several years we
    expect to exit the remaining markets in which we hold our
    non-core properties.


 


    Portfolio management includes expanding our core portfolio
    through acquisitions of properties located in markets where our
    core portfolio is concentrated. We specifically seek investments
    in a variety of asset qualities and



    
    5



Table of Contents




    types at a purchase price below replacement cost. Currently, we
    acquire properties and property interests primarily in three
    ways:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the direct acquisition of a property or portfolio of properties;



 


     
        • 

    
    acquisition of a portfolio of properties through a purchase
    from, or a merger or business combination with, an entity that
    owns or controls the property or portfolio being
    acquired; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the purchase from third parties, subject to our fiduciary
    duties, of additional interests in partnerships where we own a
    general partnership interest.





 


    In 2006, we completed direct acquisitions of nine conventional
    core properties, containing approximately 1,700 residential
    units for an aggregate purchase price of approximately
    $177 million (including transaction costs). These
    properties are located in California, Florida and North
    Carolina. In addition, we originated approximately
    $100 million in loans secured by 87 properties with 1,597
    residential units and 42 commercial spaces in the West Harlem
    District of New York City. In conjunction with this loan
    agreement, we obtained an option to purchase some or all of the
    properties during the next ten years. We also acquired
    additional interests in 48 partnerships for approximately
    $18 million (including transaction costs).


 


    Portfolio management also includes dispositions of properties
    located within markets we intend to exit, properties in less
    favored locations within the 27 markets that comprise our core
    portfolio or properties that do not meet our long-term
    investment criteria. Additionally, from time to time, we may
    dispose of certain core properties that are consistent with our
    long-term investment strategy but offer attractive returns, such
    as in sales to buyers who intend to convert the properties to
    condominiums. The sales of core and non-core properties
    partially fund our acquisitions and capital improvements on our
    existing properties. In 2006, we sold 63 non-core properties and
    two core properties generating net cash proceeds to us, after
    repayment of existing debt, payment of transaction costs and
    distributions to limited partners, of $505 million.


 



    Aimco
    Capital


 


    The portfolio management strategy for Aimco Capital is similar
    to that of our Conventional portfolio. Aimco Capital seeks to
    dispose of properties that are inconsistent with our long-term
    investment strategy and Aimco Capital’s operations. During
    2006, we sold 23 non-core properties from within the Aimco
    Capital portfolio, generating net cash proceeds to us, after
    repayment of existing debt, payment of transaction costs and
    distributions to limited partners, of $19.5 million. At
    December 31, 2006 within the Aimco Capital portfolio, we
    had 237 consolidated properties, a majority of which are
    non-core properties that we generally intend to hold for
    investment for the intermediate term. During 2007, we intend to
    sell approximately the same number of Aimco Capital properties
    as we sold in 2006.


 



    Entitlements


 


    We have the opportunity to improve land values by seeking new
    entitlements for many properties. Entitlements provide us the
    opportunity to enhance the value of our existing portfolio by
    obtaining local governmental approvals to increase density and
    add dwelling or residential units to a site. Also, we seek to
    add incremental value through redevelopment of existing units
    and excess land sales. We achieved new entitlements on five
    projects, with approximately 2,000 units, in 2006. We currently
    have approximately 20 entitlement projects underway or under
    review. These properties are typically well located and in many
    cases were built 30 or more years ago.


 



    Reinvestment
    in Properties


 


    We believe that the physical condition and amenities of our
    apartment properties are important factors in our ability to
    maintain and increase rental rates. In 2006, we spent
    $76.6 million, or $535 per owned apartment unit, for
    Capital Replacements, which represent the share of expenditures
    that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired
    capital assets. Additionally, we spent $99.2 million for
    Capital Improvements, which are non-redevelopment capital
    expenditures that are made to enhance the value, profitability
    or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition.



    
    6



Table of Contents



 


    In addition to maintenance and improvements of our properties,
    we focus on the redevelopment of certain properties each year.
    We believe redevelopment of certain properties in superior
    locations provides advantages over
    ground-up
    development, enabling us to generate rents comparable to new
    properties with relatively lower financial risk, in less time
    and with reduced delays associated with governmental permits and
    authorizations. We undertake two types of redevelopment
    projects: major projects, where a substantial number of all
    available units are vacated for significant renovations to the
    property; and moderate projects, where there is significant
    renovation, such as exteriors, common areas or unit
    improvements, typically done upon lease expirations without the
    need to vacate units on any wholesale or substantial basis. We
    have a specialized Redevelopment and Construction Services
    Group, which includes engineers, architects and construction
    managers, to oversee these projects. As of December 31,
    2006, we had 54 projects at various stages of redevelopment. Of
    the 54 projects, 45 are conventional properties one major
    project and 44 moderate projects) and nine are affordable
    properties. During 2006, redevelopment expenditures totaled
    $258.6 million, of which our share totaled
    $230.8 million, and we completed three projects as well as
    interior upgrades or new construction on approximately 2,300
    conventional units. Total redevelopment expenditures for our 45
    active conventional projects will be approximately
    $493 million, of which approximately $296 million
    remains to be spent. Total redevelopment expenditures for our
    nine affordable redevelopments will be approximately
    $68 million, of which approximately $30 million
    remains to be spent, most of which will be funded by third-party
    tax credit equity and tax-exempt debt. In 2007, we plan to
    invest between $275 and $325 million in conventional
    redevelopment projects that will affect approximately 79
    properties with over 30,000 units. Additionally, in 2007
    redevelopment expenditures on affordable properties will be
    approximately $36 million, predominantly funded by
    third-party tax credit equity, affecting more than 15 properties
    with more than 1,800 units.


 



    Cost
    of Capital


 


    We are focused on minimizing our cost of capital. We have a
    deliberate policy of using non-recourse property debt. The lower
    risk inherent in non-recourse property debt permits us to
    operate with higher debt leverage and a lower weighted average
    cost of capital. During 2006, we closed loans totaling
    $1,224.6 million at an average interest rate of 5.66%,
    which included the refinancing of loans totaling
    $586.3 million with prior interest rates averaging 6.34%.


 



    Productivity


 


    Over the past several years, we had growth in our general and
    administrative spending as a result of the building of our
    infrastructure in certain areas in which we had needs,
    including, operational systems, information technology and other
    automation, human resources, and expanded accounting, legal, and
    financial planning and analysis functions. During 2006, we
    reduced general and administrative expenses before variable
    compensation by approximately $8 million as compared to
    2005. We are focused on  continued containment of this spending
    going forward through enhanced productivity and process
    improvements.


 



    Competition


 


    In attracting and retaining residents to occupy our properties
    we compete with numerous other housing alternatives. Our
    properties compete directly with other rental apartments, as
    well as with condominiums and single-family homes that are
    available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our
    properties are located. Principal factors of competition include
    rent or price charged, attractiveness of the location and
    property and quality and breadth of services. The number of
    competitive properties in a particular area has a material
    effect on our ability to lease apartment units at our properties
    and on the rents we charge. Additionally, we compete with other
    real estate investors, including other apartment REITs, pension
    and investment funds, partnerships and investment companies in
    acquiring, redeveloping and managing apartment properties. This
    competition affects our ability to acquire properties we want to
    add to our portfolio and the price that we pay in such
    acquisitions.


 



    Taxation


 


    We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code,
    commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994,
    and intend to continue to operate in such



    
    7



Table of Contents




    a manner. Our current and continuing qualification as a REIT
    depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed
    by the Code, which are related to organizational structure,
    distribution levels, diversity of stock ownership and certain
    restrictions with regard to owned assets and categories of
    income. If we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we will generally
    not be subject to United States Federal corporate income tax on
    our taxable income that is currently distributed to
    stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the
    “double taxation” (at the corporate and stockholder
    levels) that generally results from investment in a corporation.


 


    Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to United States
    Federal income and excise taxes in various situations, such as
    on our undistributed income. We also will be required to pay a
    100% tax on any net income on non-arm’s length transactions
    between us and a TRS (described below) and on any net income
    from sales of property that was property held for sale to
    customers in the ordinary course. We and our stockholders may be
    subject to state or local taxation in various state or local
    jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business or
    our stockholders reside. In addition, we could also be subject
    to the alternative minimum tax, or AMT, on our items of tax
    preference.  Any taxes imposed on us could reduce our operating
    cash flow and net income. The state and local tax laws may not
    conform to the United States Federal income tax treatment.


 


    Certain of our operations (property management, asset
    management, risk, etc.) are conducted through taxable REIT
    subsidiaries, each of which we refer to as a TRS. A TRS is a
    C-corporation that has not elected REIT status and as such is
    subject to United States Federal corporate income tax. We use
    TRS entities to facilitate our ability to offer certain services
    and activities to our residents, as these services and
    activities generally cannot be offered directly by the REIT.


 



    Regulation


 



    General


 


    Apartment properties are subject to various laws, ordinances and
    regulations, including regulations relating to recreational
    facilities such as swimming pools, activity centers and other
    common areas. Changes in laws increasing the potential liability
    for environmental conditions existing on properties or
    increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions,
    as well as changes in laws affecting development, construction
    and safety requirements, may result in significant unanticipated
    expenditures, which would adversely affect our net income and
    cash flows from operating activities. In addition, future
    enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws or other
    laws regulating multifamily housing may reduce rental revenue or
    increase operating costs in particular markets.


 



    Environmental


 


    Various Federal, state and local laws subject property owners or
    operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal
    or remediation, of certain hazardous substances present on a
    property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to
    whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for,
    the release or presence of the hazardous substances. In
    connection with the ownership, operation and management of
    properties, we could potentially be liable for environmental
    liabilities or costs associated with our properties or
    properties we acquire or manage in the future. These and other
    risks related to environmental matters are described in more
    detail in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”


 



    Insurance


 


    Our primary lines of insurance coverage are property, general
    liability, and workers’ compensation. We believe that our
    insurance coverages adequately insure our properties against the
    risk of loss attributable to fire, earthquake, hurricane,
    tornado, flood and other perils and adequately insure us against
    other risk. Our coverage includes deductibles, retentions and
    limits that are customary in the industry. We have established
    loss prevention, loss mitigation, claims handling, litigation
    management and loss reserving procedures to manage our exposure.


 



    Employees


 


    We currently have approximately 6,000 employees, of which
    approximately 4,700 are at the property level, performing
    various
    on-site
    functions, with the balance managing corporate and regional
    operations, including investment and debt transactions, legal,
    financial reporting, accounting, information systems, human
    resources and



    
    8



Table of Contents




    other support functions. Unions represent approximately 100 of
    our employees. We have never experienced a work stoppage and
    believe we maintain satisfactory relations with our employees.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted
    throughout this Annual Report, describe certain risks and
    uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.


 



    Failure
    to generate sufficient net operating income may limit our
    ability to pay dividends.


 


    Our ability to make payments to our investors depends on our
    ability to generate net operating income in excess of required
    debt payments and capital expenditure requirements. Net
    operating income may be adversely affected by events or
    conditions beyond our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the general economic climate;



 


     
        • 

    
    competition from other apartment communities and other housing
    options;



 


     
        • 

    
    local conditions, such as loss of jobs or an increase in the
    supply of apartments, that might adversely affect apartment
    occupancy or rental rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in governmental regulations and the related cost of
    compliance;



 


     
        • 

    
    increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes) due
    to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by
    increased rents;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in tax laws and housing laws, including the enactment of
    rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing;
    and



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in interest rates and the availability of financing.





 



    Redevelopment
    and construction risks could affect our
    profitability.


 


    We intend to continue to redevelop certain of our properties.
    These activities are subject to the following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining,
    necessary zoning, occupancy, or other required governmental or
    third party permits and authorizations, which could result in
    increased costs or the delay or abandonment of opportunities;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may incur costs that exceed our original estimates due to
    increased material, labor or other costs;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to complete construction and lease up of a
    property on schedule, resulting in increased construction and
    financing costs and a decrease in expected rental revenues;



 


     
        • 

    
    occupancy rates and rents at a property may fail to meet our
    expectations for a number of reasons, including changes in
    market and economic conditions beyond our control and the
    development by competitors of competing communities;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at
    all, for the proposed development of a property, which may cause
    us to delay or abandon an opportunity;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may abandon opportunities that we have already begun to
    explore for a number of reasons, including changes in local
    market conditions or increases in construction or financing
    costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover expenses already
    incurred in exploring those opportunities;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may incur liabilities to third parties during the
    redevelopment process, for example, in connection with tenant
    terminations, or managing existing improvements on the site
    prior to tenant terminations; and



 


     
        • 

    
    loss of a key member of project team could adversely affect our
    ability to deliver redevelopment projects on time and within our
    budget.






    
    9



Table of Contents



 



    If we
    are not successful in our acquisition of properties, our results
    of operations could be adversely affected.


 


    The selective acquisition of properties is a component of our
    strategy. However, we may not be able to complete transactions
    successfully in the future. Although we seek to acquire,
    properties only when such activities increase our net income,
    Funds From Operations or net asset value, such transactions may
    fail to perform in accordance with our expectations.


 



    Our
    existing and future debt financing could render us unable to
    operate, result in foreclosure on our properties or prevent us
    from making distributions on our equity.


 


    Our strategy is generally to incur debt to increase the return
    on our equity while maintaining acceptable interest coverage
    ratios. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we had a
    ratio of free cash flow (net operating income less spending for
    capital replacements) to combined interest expense and preferred
    stock dividends of 1.6:1. Our organizational documents do not
    limit the amount of debt that we may incur, and we have
    significant amounts of debt outstanding. Payments of principal
    and interest may leave us with insufficient cash resources to
    operate our properties or pay distributions required to be paid
    in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We are also
    subject to the risk that our cash flow from operations will be
    insufficient to make required payments of principal and
    interest, and the risk that existing indebtedness may not be
    refinanced or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as
    favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we fail to
    make required payments of principal and interest on secured
    debt, our lenders could foreclose on the properties securing
    such debt, which would result in loss of income and asset value
    to us. As of December 31, 2006, substantially all of the
    properties that we owned or controlled were encumbered by debt.


 



    Increases
    in interest rates would increase our interest
    expense.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately
    $1,663.4 million of variable-rate indebtedness outstanding.
    Of the total debt subject to variable interest rates, floating
    rate tax-exempt bond financing was $640.6 million. Floating
    rate tax-exempt bond financing is benchmarked against the BMA
    Index, which since 1981 has averaged 68% of the
    30-day LIBOR
    rate. If this relationship continues, an increase in
    30-day LIBOR
    of 1.0% (0.68% in tax-exempt interest rates) would result in our
    income before minority interests and cash flows being reduced by
    $14.6 million on an annual basis. This would be offset by
    variable rate interest income earned on certain assets,
    including cash and cash equivalents and notes receivable, as
    well as interest that is capitalized on a portion of this
    variable rate debt incurred in connection with our redevelopment
    activities. Considering these offsets, the same increase in
    30-day LIBOR
    would result in our income before minority interests being
    reduced by $4.4 million on an annual basis.


 



    Covenant
    restrictions may limit our ability to make payments to our
    investors.


 


    Some of our debt and other securities contain covenants that
    restrict our ability to make distributions or other payments to
    our investors unless certain financial tests or other criteria
    are satisfied. Our credit facility provides, among other things,
    that we may make distributions to our investors during any four
    consecutive fiscal quarters in an aggregate amount that does not
    exceed the greater of 95% of our Funds From Operations for such
    period or such amount as may be necessary to maintain our REIT
    status. Our outstanding classes of preferred stock prohibit the
    payment of dividends on our Common Stock if we fail to pay the
    dividends to which the holders of the preferred stock are
    entitled.


 



    Competition
    could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or
    maintain rents.


 


    Our apartment properties compete for residents with other
    housing alternatives, including other rental apartments,
    condominiums and single-family homes that are available for
    rent, as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family
    homes for sale. Competitive residential housing in a particular
    area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartments and
    to increase or maintain rental rates.



    
    10



Table of Contents



 



    We
    depend on distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries
    that they may be prohibited from making to us.


 


    All of our properties are owned, and all of our operations are
    conducted, by the Aimco Operating Partnership and our other
    subsidiaries. As a result, we depend on distributions and other
    payments from our subsidiaries in order to satisfy our financial
    obligations and make payments to our investors. The ability of
    our subsidiaries to make such distributions and other payments
    depends on their earnings and may be subject to statutory or
    contractual limitations. As an equity investor in our
    subsidiaries, our right to receive assets upon their liquidation
    or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims
    of their creditors. To the extent that we are recognized as a
    creditor of such subsidiaries, our claims may still be
    subordinate to any security interest in or other lien on their
    assets and to any of their debt or other obligations that are
    senior to our claims.


 



    Because
    real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may not be
    able to sell properties when appropriate.


 


    Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and cannot
    always be sold quickly. Thus, we may not be able to change our
    portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other
    market conditions. Our ability to dispose of assets in the
    future will depend on prevailing economic and market conditions.
    This could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition or results of operations.


 



    We may
    be subject to litigation associated with partnership
    acquisitions that could increase our expenses and prevent
    completion of beneficial transactions.


 


    We have engaged in, and intend to continue to engage in, the
    selective acquisition of interests in partnerships that own
    apartment properties. In some cases, we have acquired the
    general partner of a partnership and then made an offer to
    acquire the limited partners’ interests in the partnership.
    In these transactions, we may be subject to litigation based on
    claims that we, as the general partner, have breached our
    fiduciary duty to our limited partners or that the transaction
    violates the relevant partnership agreement or state law.
    Although we intend to comply with our fiduciary obligations and
    the relevant partnership agreements, we may incur additional
    costs in connection with the defense or settlement of this type
    of litigation. In some cases, this type of litigation may
    adversely affect our desire to proceed with, or our ability to
    complete, a particular transaction. Any litigation of this type
    could also have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition or results of operations.


 



    We are
    self-insured for certain risks and the cost of insurance,
    increased claims activity or losses resulting from catastrophic
    events may affect our operating results and financial
    condition.


 


    We are self-insured for a portion of our consolidated
    properties’ exposure to casualty losses resulting from
    fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood and other perils.
    We recognize casualty losses or gains based on the net book
    value of the affected property and any related insurance
    proceeds.  In many instances, the actual cost to repair or
    replace the property may exceed its net book value and any
    insurance proceeds.  We also insure certain unconsolidated
    properties for a portion of their exposure to such losses.  In
    addition, we are self-insured for a portion of our exposure to
    third-party claims related to our employee health insurance
    plans, workers’ compensation coverage, and general
    liability exposure. With respect to our insurance obligations to
    unconsolidated properties and our exposure to claims of third
    parties, we establish reserves at levels that reflect our known
    and estimated losses.  The ultimate cost of losses and the
    impact of unforeseen events may vary materially from recorded
    reserves, and variances may adversely affect our operating
    results and financial condition. We purchase insurance (or
    reinsurance where we insure unconsolidated properties) to reduce
    our exposure to catastrophe losses and limit our financial
    losses on large individual risks.  The availability and cost of
    insurance are determined by market conditions outside our
    control.  No assurance can be made that we will be able to
    obtain and maintain insurance at the same levels and on the same
    terms as we do today.  If we are not able to obtain or maintain
    insurance in amounts we consider appropriate for our business,
    or if the cost of obtaining such insurance increases materially,
    we may have to retain a larger portion of the potential loss
    associated with our exposures to risks.  The extent of our
    losses in connection with catastrophic events is a function of
    the severity of the event and the total amount of exposure in
    the affected area.  When we have geographic concentration of
    exposures, a single catastrophe (such as an earthquake) or
    destructive weather trend affecting a region may have a
    significant impact on our financial



    
    11



Table of Contents




    condition and results of operations.  We cannot accurately
    predict catastrophes, or the number and type of catastrophic
    events that will affect us.  As a result, our operating and
    financial results may vary significantly from one period to the
    next. While we anticipate and plan for catastrophe losses, there
    can be no assurance that our financial results will not be
    adversely affected by our exposure to losses arising from
    catastrophic events in the future that exceed our previous
    experience and assumptions.


 



    We
    depend on our senior management.


 


    Our success depends upon the retention of our senior management,
    including Terry Considine, our chief executive officer and
    president. There are no assurances that we would be able to find
    qualified replacements for the individuals who make up our
    senior management if their services were no longer available.
    The loss of services of one or more members of our senior
    management team could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations. We do
    not currently maintain key-man life insurance for any of our
    employees. The loss of any member of senior management could
    adversely affect our ability to pursue effectively our business
    strategy.


 



    Affordable
    housing regulations may limit the opportunities at some of our
    properties and failure to comply with resident qualification
    requirements may result in financial penalties
    and/or loss
    of benefits.


 


    We own consolidated and unconsolidated equity interests in
    certain properties and manage for third parties and affiliates
    other properties that benefit from governmental programs
    intended to provide housing to people with low or moderate
    incomes. These programs, which are usually administered by HUD
    or state housing finance agencies, typically provide mortgage
    insurance, favorable financing terms, tax-credit equity, or
    rental assistance payments to the property owners. As a
    condition of the receipt of assistance under these programs, the
    properties must comply with various requirements, which
    typically limit rents to pre-approved amounts and impose
    restrictions on resident incomes. Failure to comply with these
    requirements and restrictions may result in financial penalties
    or loss of benefits. We usually need to obtain the approval of
    HUD in order to manage, or acquire a significant interest in, a
    HUD-assisted property. We may not always receive such approval.


 



    Laws
    benefiting disabled persons may result in our incurrence of
    unanticipated expenses.


 


    Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all
    places intended to be used by the public are required to meet
    certain Federal requirements related to access and use by
    disabled persons. Likewise, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of
    1988, or FHAA, requires apartment properties first occupied
    after March 13, 1990 to be accessible to the handicapped.
    These and other Federal, state and local laws may require
    modifications to our properties, or restrict renovations of the
    properties. Noncompliance with these laws could result in the
    imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants
    and also could result in an order to correct any non-complying
    feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures.
    Although we believe that our properties are substantially in
    compliance with present requirements, we may incur unanticipated
    expenses to comply with the ADA and the FHAA.


 



    Potential
    liability or other expenditures associated with potential
    environmental contamination may be costly.


 


    Various Federal, state and local laws subject property owners or
    operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal
    or remediation, of certain hazardous substances present on a
    property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to
    whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for,
    the release or presence of the hazardous substances. The
    presence of, or the failure to manage or remedy properly,
    hazardous substances may adversely affect occupancy at affected
    apartment communities and the ability to sell or finance
    affected properties. In addition to the costs associated with
    investigation and remediation actions brought by government
    agencies, and potential fines or penalties imposed by such
    agencies in connection therewith, the presence of hazardous
    substances on a property could result in claims by private
    plaintiffs for personal injury, disease, disability or other
    infirmities. Various laws also impose liability for the cost of
    removal, remediation or disposal of hazardous substances through
    a licensed disposal or treatment facility. Anyone who arranges
    for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances is
    potentially liable under such laws. These laws often impose
    liability whether or not the person arranging for the



    
    12



Table of Contents




    disposal ever owned or operated the disposal facility. In
    connection with the ownership, operation and management of
    properties, we could potentially be liable for environmental
    liabilities or costs associated with our properties or
    properties we acquire or manage in the future.


 



    Moisture
    infiltration and resulting mold remediation may be
    costly.


 


    We have been named as a defendant in lawsuits that have alleged
    personal injury and property damage as a result of the presence
    of mold. In addition, we are aware of lawsuits against owners
    and managers of multifamily properties asserting claims of
    personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of
    mold, some of which have resulted in substantial monetary
    judgments or settlements. We have only limited insurance
    coverage for property damage loss claims arising from the
    presence of mold and for personal injury claims related to mold
    exposure. We have implemented policies, procedures, third-party
    audits and training, and include a detailed moisture intrusion
    and mold assessment during acquisition due diligence. We believe
    these measures will prevent or eliminate mold exposure from our
    properties and will minimize the effects that mold may have on
    our residents. To date, we have not incurred any material costs
    or liabilities relating to claims of mold exposure or to abate
    mold conditions. Because the law regarding mold is unsettled and
    subject to change we can make no assurance that liabilities
    resulting from the presence of or exposure to mold will not have
    a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
    condition or results of operations.


 



    The
    FBI has issued alerts regarding potential terrorist threats
    involving apartment buildings.


 


    From time to time, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or FBI,
    and the United States Department of Homeland Security issue
    alerts regarding potential terrorist threats involving apartment
    buildings. Threats of future terrorist attacks, such as those
    announced by the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security,
    could have a negative effect on rent and occupancy levels at our
    properties. The effect that future terrorist activities or
    threats of such activities could have on our business is
    uncertain and unpredictable. If we incur a loss at a property as
    a result of an act of terrorism, we could lose all or a portion
    of the capital we have invested in the property, as well as the
    future revenue from the property.


 



    We may
    fail to qualify as a REIT.


 


    If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be allowed a
    deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders in computing
    our taxable income, and we will be subject to Federal income tax
    at regular corporate rates, including any applicable alternative
    minimum tax. This would substantially reduce our funds available
    for payment to our investors. Unless entitled to relief under
    certain provisions of the Code, we also would be disqualified
    from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the
    year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. In addition,
    our failure to qualify as a REIT would trigger the following
    consequences:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we would be obligated to repurchase certain classes of our
    preferred stock; and



 


     
        • 

    
    we would be in default under our primary credit facilities and
    certain other loan agreements.





 


    We believe that we operate, and have always operated, in a
    manner that enables us to meet the requirements for
    qualification as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes. Our
    continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our
    satisfaction of certain asset, income, investment,
    organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other
    requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the
    asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market values
    of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise
    determination, and for which we will not obtain independent
    appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly
    asset requirements also depends upon our ability to manage
    successfully the composition of our income and assets on an
    ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an
    instrument as debt or equity for Federal income tax purposes may
    be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the
    application of the REIT qualification requirements. Accordingly,
    there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, or
    the IRS, will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or
    other issuers constitutes a violation of the REIT requirements.
    Moreover, future economic, market, legal, tax or other
    considerations may cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT, or our
    Board of Directors may determine to revoke our REIT status.



    
    13



Table of Contents



 



    REIT
    distribution requirements limit our available
    cash.


 


    As a REIT, we are subject to annual distribution requirements,
    which limit the amount of cash we retain for other business
    purposes, including amounts to fund our growth. We generally
    must distribute annually at least 90% of our net REIT taxable
    income, excluding any net capital gain, in order for our
    distributed earnings not to be subject to corporate income tax.
    We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply
    with the requirements of the Code. However, differences in
    timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual
    receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds
    on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution
    requirement of the Code.


 



    Limits
    on ownership of shares in our charter may result in the loss of
    economic and voting rights by purchasers that violate those
    limits.


 


    Our charter limits ownership of our Common Stock by any single
    stockholder (applying certain “beneficial ownership”
    rules under the Federal securities laws) to 8.7% of our
    outstanding shares of Common Stock, or 15% in the case of
    certain pension trusts, registered investment companies and
    Mr. Considine. Our charter also limits ownership of our
    Common Stock and preferred stock by any single stockholder to
    8.7% of the value of the outstanding Common Stock and preferred
    stock, or 15% in the case of certain pension trusts, registered
    investment companies and Mr. Considine. The charter also
    prohibits anyone from buying shares of our capital stock if the
    purchase would result in us losing our REIT status. This could
    happen if a transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning
    all of our shares of capital stock or results in five or fewer
    persons (applying certain attribution rules of the Code) owning
    50% or more of the value of all of our shares of capital stock.
    If anyone acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in
    violation of the ownership requirements of the Code for REITs:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the transfer will be considered null and void;



 


     
        • 

    
    we will not reflect the transaction on our books;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may demand repayment of any dividends received by the
    affected person on those shares;



 


     
        • 

    
    we may redeem the shares;



 


     
        • 

    
    the affected person will not have any voting rights for those
    shares; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the shares (and all voting and dividend rights of the shares)
    will be held in trust for the benefit of one or more charitable
    organizations designated by us.





 


    We may purchase the shares of capital stock held in trust at a
    price equal to the lesser of the price paid by the transferee of
    the shares or the then current market price. If the trust
    transfers any of the shares of capital stock, the affected
    person will receive the lesser of the price paid for the shares
    or the then current market price. An individual who acquires
    shares of capital stock that violate the above rules bears the
    risk that the individual:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    may lose control over the power to dispose of such shares;



 


     
        • 

    
    may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the
    market price of the shares increases;



 


     
        • 

    
    may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares
    if the market price decreases; and



 


     
        • 

    
    may be required to repay to us any distributions received from
    us as a result of his or her ownership of the shares.





 



    Our
    charter may limit the ability of a third party to acquire
    control of us.


 


    The 8.7% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of
    precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without
    the consent of our Board of Directors. Our charter authorizes
    our Board of Directors to issue up to 510,587,500 shares of
    capital stock. As of December 31, 2006,
    426,157,736 shares were classified as Common Stock, of
    which 96,820,252 were outstanding, and 84,429,764 shares
    were classified as preferred stock, of which 26,854,962 were
    outstanding. Under our charter, our Board of Directors has the
    authority to classify and reclassify



    
    14



Table of Contents




    any of our unissued shares of capital stock into shares of
    capital stock with such preferences, rights, powers and
    restrictions as our Board of Directors may determine. The
    authorization and issuance of a new class of capital stock could
    have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking
    control of us, even if a change in control were in our
    stockholders’ best interests.


 



    Maryland
    business statutes may limit the ability of a third party to
    acquire control of us.


 


    As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to various Maryland
    laws that may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire
    us and increasing the difficulty of consummating any such
    offers, even if an acquisition would be in our
    stockholders’ best interests. The Maryland General
    Corporation Law restricts mergers and other business combination
    transactions between us and any person who acquires beneficial
    ownership of shares of our stock representing 10% or more of the
    voting power without our Board of Directors’ prior
    approval. Any such business combination transaction could not be
    completed until five years after the person acquired such voting
    power, and generally only with the approval of stockholders
    representing 80% of all votes entitled to be cast and
    662/3%
    of the votes entitled to be cast, excluding the interested
    stockholder, or upon payment of a fair price. Maryland law also
    provides generally that a person who acquires shares of our
    capital stock that represent 10% or more of the voting power in
    electing directors will have no voting rights unless approved by
    a vote of two-thirds of the shares eligible to vote.
    Additionally, Maryland law provides, among other things, that
    the board of directors has broad discretion in adopting
    stockholders’ rights plans and has the sole power to fix
    the record date, time and place for special meetings of the
    stockholders. In addition, Maryland law provides that
    corporations that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    have at least three directors who are not employees of the
    entity or related to an acquiring person; and



 


     
        • 

    
    are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934,





 


    may elect in their charter or bylaws or by resolution of the
    board of directors to be subject to all or part of a special
    subtitle that provides that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the corporation will have a staggered board of directors;



 


     
        • 

    
    any director may be removed only for cause and by the vote of
    two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of
    directors generally, even if a lesser proportion is provided in
    the charter or bylaws;



 


     
        • 

    
    the number of directors may only be set by the board of
    directors, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or
    bylaws;



 


     
        • 

    
    vacancies may only be filled by the remaining directors, even if
    the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the secretary of the corporation may call a special meeting of
    stockholders at the request of stockholders only on the written
    request of the stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority
    of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting, even if the
    procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws.





 


    To date, we have not made any of the elections described above.


 



    Item 1B