Item 1A of this Annual
    Report and the other documents we file from time to time with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission.


 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 





    The
    Company


 


    Apartment Investment and Management Company, or Aimco, is a
    Maryland corporation incorporated on January 10, 1994. We
    are a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment
    trust, or REIT, engaged in the acquisition, ownership,
    management and redevelopment of apartment properties. As of
    December 31, 2008, we owned or managed a real estate
    portfolio of 992 apartment properties containing 162,807
    apartment units located in 44 states, the District of
    Columbia and Puerto Rico. We are one of the largest owners and
    operators of apartment properties in the United States. Our
    portfolio includes garden style, mid-rise and high-rise
    properties.


 


    We own an equity interest in, and consolidate the majority of,
    the properties in our owned real estate portfolio. These
    properties represent the consolidated real estate holdings in
    our financial statements, which we refer to as consolidated
    properties. In addition, we have an equity interest in, but do
    not consolidate for financial statement purposes, certain
    properties that are accounted for under the equity or cost
    methods. These properties represent our investment in
    unconsolidated real estate partnerships in our financial
    statements, which we refer to as unconsolidated properties.
    Additionally, we provide property management and asset
    management services to certain properties, and in certain cases,
    we may indirectly own generally less than one percent of the
    operations of such



    
    2



Table of Contents




    properties through a partnership syndication or other fund. Our
    equity holdings and managed properties are as follows as of
    December 31, 2008:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    Total Portfolio


 




 


 


    Properties


 


 


    Units


 



 





    Consolidated properties



 


 


    514


 


 


 


    117,719


 





    Unconsolidated properties



 


 


    85


 


 


 


    9,613


 





    Property management



 


 


    34


 


 


 


    3,252


 





    Asset management



 


 


    359


 


 


 


    32,223


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    992


 


 


 


    162,807


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, AIMCO-GP, Inc. and
    AIMCO-LP Trust, we own a majority of the ownership interests in
    AIMCO Properties, L.P., which we refer to as the Aimco Operating
    Partnership. As of December 31, 2008, we held an interest
    of approximately 91% in the common partnership units and
    equivalents of the Aimco Operating Partnership. We conduct
    substantially all of our business and own substantially all of
    our assets through the Aimco Operating Partnership. Interests in
    the Aimco Operating Partnership that are held by limited
    partners other than Aimco are referred to as
    “OP Units.” OP Units include common
    OP Units, partnership preferred units, or preferred
    OP Units, and high performance partnership units, or High
    Performance Units. Generally, after a holding period of twelve
    months, holders of common OP Units may redeem such units
    for cash or, at the Aimco Operating Partnership’s option,
    Aimco Class A Common Stock, which we refer to as Common
    Stock. At December 31, 2008, we had 101,176,232 shares
    of our Common Stock outstanding and the Aimco Operating
    Partnership had 9,484,191 common OP Units and equivalents
    outstanding for a combined total of 110,660,423 shares of
    Common Stock and OP Units outstanding (excluding preferred
    OP Units).


 


    Since our initial public offering in July 1994, we have
    completed numerous transactions, including purchases of
    properties and interests in entities that own or manage
    properties, expanding our portfolio of owned or managed
    properties from 132 properties with 29,343 apartment units to a
    peak of over 2,100 properties with 379,000 apartment units. As
    of December 31, 2008, our portfolio of owned
    and/or
    managed properties consists of 992 properties with 162,807
    apartment units.


 


    Except as the context otherwise requires, “we,”
    “our,” “us” and the “Company”
    refer to Aimco, the Aimco Operating Partnership and their
    consolidated entities, collectively. As used herein, and except
    where the context otherwise requires, “partnership”
    refers to a limited partnership or a limited liability company
    and “partner” refers to a limited partner in a limited
    partnership or a member in a limited liability company.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    our Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    our Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to any of those reports that we file with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge
    as soon as reasonably practicable through our website at
    www.aimco.com. The information contained on our website is not
    incorporated into this Annual Report. Our Common Stock is listed
    on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “AIV.”
    In 2008, our chief executive officer submitted his annual
    corporate governance listing standards certification to the New
    York Stock Exchange, which certification was unqualified.


 



    Financial
    Information About Industry Segments


 


    We operate in two reportable segments: real estate (owning,
    operating and redeveloping apartments) and investment management
    (portfolio strategy, capital allocation, joint ventures, tax
    credit syndication, acquisitions, dispositions and other
    transaction activities). For further information on these
    segments, see Note 18 of the consolidated financial
    statements in Item 8, and Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis in Item 7.


 



    Business
    Overview


 


    Our principal financial objective is to increase long-term
    stockholder value per share, as measured by Economic Income,
    which consists of cash dividends and changes in Net Asset Value,
    or NAV, which is the estimated fair value of our assets, net of
    debt.



    
    3



Table of Contents




    We strive to meet our objectives through:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    property operations — using scale and technology to
    increase the effectiveness and efficiency of attracting and
    retaining apartment residents;




 



     
        • 

    
    portfolio management —  allocating capital among
    geographic markets and apartment property types such as
    Class A, Class B and Class C with redevelopment
    potential;




 



     
        • 

    
    redevelopment of properties — making substantial
    upgrades to the physical plant and, sometimes, to the services
    offered to residents;




 



     
        • 

    
    earning fee income from providing investment management services
    such as property management, financial management, accounting,
    investor reporting, property debt financings, tax credit
    syndication, redevelopment and construction management;




 



     
        • 

    
    managing our cost and risk of capital by using leverage that is
    largely long-term, laddered in maturity, non-recourse and
    property specific; and




 



     
        • 

    
    reducing our general and administrative and certain other costs
    consistent with the reduced size of our portfolio.





 


    Our business is organized around three core activities: Property
    Operations, Redevelopment, and Investment Management. These
    three core activities, along with our financial strategy, are
    described in more detail below.


 



    Property
    Operations


 


    Our portfolio is comprised of two business components:
    conventional and affordable. Our conventional operations, which
    are market-rate apartments with rents paid by the resident,
    include 310 properties with 93,444 units. Our affordable
    operations consist of 289 properties with 33,888 units,
    with rents that are generally paid, in whole or part, by a
    government agency. Affordable properties tend to have relatively
    more stable rents and higher occupancy due to government rent
    payments and thus are much less affected by market fluctuations.


 


    We operate a broad range of property types, from suburban
    garden-style to urban high-rise properties in 44 states,
    the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico at a broad range of
    average monthly rental rates, with most between $700 and $1,200
    per month, and reaching as high as $10,000 per month at some of
    our premier properties. This diversification insulates us, to
    some degree, from inevitable downturns in any one market.


 


    Our property operations currently are organized into five areas,
    which are further subdivided according to our target markets,
    which are the largest 20 U.S. markets as measured by total
    market capitalization, or the total market value of
    institutional-grade apartment properties in a particular market.
    To manage our nationwide portfolio more efficiently and to
    increase the benefits from our local management expertise, we
    have given direct responsibility for operations within each area
    to an Area Vice President, or AVP, with regular senior
    management reviews. To enable the AVPs to focus on sales and
    service, as well as to improve financial control and budgeting,
    we have dedicated an area financial officer to support each AVP,
    and with the exception of routine maintenance, our specialized
    Construction Services group manages all
    on-site
    improvements, thus reducing the need for AVPs to spend time on
    oversight of construction projects.


 


    We seek to improve our corporate-level oversight of property
    operations by developing better systems, standardizing business
    goals, operational measurements and internal reporting, and
    enhancing financial controls over field operations. Our
    objectives are to focus on the areas discussed below:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Customer Service.  Our operating culture is
    focused on our residents. Our goal is to provide our residents
    with consistent service in clean, safe and attractive
    communities. We evaluate our performance through a customer
    satisfaction tracking system. In addition, we emphasize the
    quality of our
    on-site
    employees through recruiting, training and retention programs,
    which we believe contributes to improved customer service and
    leads to increased occupancy rates and enhanced operational
    performance.




 



     
        • 

    
    Resident Selection and Retention.  In apartment
    properties, neighbors are a meaningful part of the product,
    together with the location of the property and the physical
    quality of the apartment units. Part of our property






    
    4



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    operations strategy is to focus on resident acquisition and
    retention — attracting and retaining credit-worthy
    residents who are good neighbors. We have structured goals and
    coaching for all of our sales personnel, a tracking system for
    inquiries and a standardized renewal communication program. We
    have standardized residential financial stability requirements
    and have policies and monitoring practices to maintain our
    resident quality.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Revenue Management.  For our conventional
    properties, we are focusing on people, processes and technology
    to build a revenue management model that is competitive with the
    best in our industry. We seek to increase revenue by optimizing
    the balance between rental and occupancy rates. We are also
    focused on the automation of
    on-site
    operations, as we believe that timely and accurate collection of
    property performance and resident profile data will enable us to
    maximize revenue through better property management and leasing
    decisions. We have standardized policies for new and renewal
    pricing with timely data and analyses by floor-plan, thereby
    enabling us to maximize our ability to modify pricing, even in
    challenging sub-markets. During 2008, we established a
    centralized revenue management team with leaders from the
    airline, hospitality and property management industries, and
    centralized our rental rate pricing function in partnership with
    our area portfolio management teams.




 



     
        • 

    
    Controlling Expenses.  Cost controls are
    accomplished by local focus at the area level and by taking
    advantage of economies of scale at the corporate level. As a
    result of the size of our portfolio and our area concentrations
    of properties, we have the ability to spread over a large
    property base fixed costs for general and administrative
    expenditures and certain operating functions, such as
    purchasing, insurance and information technology.




 



     
        • 

    
    Ancillary Services.  We believe that our
    ownership and management of properties provide us with unique
    access to a customer base that allows us to provide additional
    services and thereby increase occupancy and rents, while also
    generating incremental revenue. We currently provide cable
    television, telephone services, appliance rental, and carport,
    garage and storage space rental at certain properties.





 



    Capital
    Replacements and Capital Improvements


 


    We believe that the physical condition and amenities of our
    apartment properties are important factors in our ability to
    maintain and increase rental rates. In 2008, we spent
    $101.4 million (Aimco’s share), or $799 per owned
    apartment unit, for Capital Replacements, which represent the
    share of expenditures that are deemed to replace the consumed
    portion of acquired capital assets. Additionally, we spent
    $124.9 million (Aimco’s share), or $985 per owned
    apartment unit, for Capital Improvements, which are
    non-redevelopment capital expenditures that are made to enhance
    the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its
    original purchase condition.


 



    Redevelopment


 


    In addition to maintenance and improvements of our properties,
    we focus on the redevelopment of certain properties each year.
    We believe redevelopment of certain properties in superior
    locations provides advantages over
    ground-up
    development, enabling us to generate rents comparable to new
    properties with lower financial risk, in less time and with
    reduced delays associated with governmental permits and
    authorizations. Redevelopment work also includes seeking
    entitlements from local governments, which enhance the value of
    our existing portfolio by increasing density, that is, the right
    to add residential units to a site. We have historically
    undertaken a range of redevelopment projects: from those in
    which a substantial number of all available units are vacated
    for significant renovations to the property, to those in which
    there is significant renovation, such as exteriors, common areas
    or unit improvements, typically done upon lease expirations
    without the need to vacate units on any wholesale or substantial
    basis. We have a specialized Redevelopment and Construction
    Services group, which includes developers, engineers, architects
    and construction managers, to oversee these projects.


 


    Our share of 2008 redevelopment expenditures on active and
    completed projects totaled $226.3 million and
    $113.9 million in conventional and affordable redevelopment
    projects, respectively. During 2008, we completed redevelopment
    projects at 13 conventional properties and 21 affordable
    properties with 6,524 and 2,903 units, respectively. During
    2008, we delivered 4,817 conventional and 1,780 affordable
    redeveloped units, respectively, some of which are part of
    redevelopment projects completed in 2008 and some of which are
    part of ongoing



    
    5



Table of Contents




    projects. As of December 31, 2008, we had 37 conventional
    and four affordable redevelopment projects at various stages of
    completion.


 


    In 2009, we expect to decrease our redevelopment expenditures,
    with an investment between $50.0 and $75.0 million in
    conventional redevelopment projects and between $30.0 and
    $45.0 million in affordable redevelopment projects,
    predominantly funded by third-party tax credit equity.


 



    Investment
    Management


 


    Investment management includes activities related to our owned
    portfolio of properties as well as services provided to
    affiliated partnerships. Activities and services that fall
    within Investment Management include portfolio strategy, capital
    allocation, joint ventures, tax credit syndication,
    acquisitions, dispositions and other transaction activities.
    Within our owned portfolio, we refer to these activities as
    “Portfolio Management” and they include strategic
    portfolio and capital allocation decisions through transactions
    to buy, sell or modify our ownership interest in properties,
    including through the use of partnerships and joint ventures.
    The purpose of these transactions is to adjust Aimco’s
    investments to reflect our decisions regarding target
    allocations to geographic markets and to investment types. When
    we provide these services with respect to our own investments,
    there is no separate compensation, and their benefit is seen in
    property operating results and in investment gains. For
    affiliated partnerships, we refer to these activities as
    “Asset Management,” and they include property
    management, financial management, accounting, investor
    reporting, property debt financings, tax credit syndication,
    redevelopment and construction management. When we provide these
    services to affiliated partnerships, we are separately
    compensated through fees paid by third party investors. Those
    fees may be recognized in a subsequent period upon the
    occurrence of a current transaction or a transaction expected to
    close within twelve months, or improvement in operations that
    generates sufficient cash to pay the fees. Although many teams
    at Aimco are involved in the delivery of these services, the
    negotiation of transactions for Aimco’s account and the
    oversight of services provided to others is primarily the
    responsibility of our Investment Management team.


 



    Conventional
    Portfolio Management


 


    Portfolio management involves the ongoing allocation of
    investment capital to meet our geographic and product type
    goals. We target geographic balance in Aimco’s diversified
    portfolio in order to optimize risk-adjusted returns and to
    avoid the risk of undue concentration in any particular market.
    We also seek to balance the portfolio by product type, with both
    high quality properties in excellent locations and also high
    land value properties that support redevelopment activities.


 


    During 2007, we refined our geographic allocation strategy to
    focus on our target markets. We believe these markets to be
    deep, relatively liquid and to possess desirable long-term
    growth characteristics. They are primarily coastal markets, and
    also include a number of Sun Belt cities and Chicago, Illinois.
    We may also invest in other markets on an opportunistic basis.
    Following this strategy through dispositions, acquisitions and
    redevelopment spending, we have reduced our investment in
    markets outside our target markets and increased our investment
    in our target markets. We expect that increased geographic focus
    will also add to our investment knowledge and increase operating
    efficiencies based on local economies of scale.


 


    Portfolio management also includes dispositions of properties
    located within markets we intend to exit, properties in less
    favored locations within our target markets and properties that
    do not meet our long-term investment criteria. Property sales
    proceeds are used to fund redevelopment spending, acquisitions,
    and other corporate purposes, such as debt reduction, preferred
    stock redemptions or purchases and special dividends. In 2008,
    we sold 130 conventional properties generating net cash proceeds
    to us, after repayment of existing debt, payment of transaction
    costs and distributions to limited partners, of
    $852.2 million. In 2008, we exited six markets, and as of
    December 31, 2008, our conventional portfolio included 310
    properties with 93,444 units in 40 markets.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, conventional properties in our
    target markets comprised 84.2% of our Net Asset Value (which is
    the estimated fair value of our assets, net of debt, or NAV)
    attributable to our conventional properties. Our top five
    markets by NOI contribution include the metropolitan areas of
    Washington, D.C.; Los Angeles, California;
    “Other” Florida (which is comprised of
    Ft. Lauderdale, Jacksonville, Orlando, Palm Beach County
    and Tampa); Chicago, Illinois and Boston, Massachusetts.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    During 2008, we invested in our conventional portfolio primarily
    by funding redevelopment. In 2008, we invested
    $226.3 million in redevelopment of properties in our
    conventional portfolio. We also completed acquisitions of three
    conventional properties, containing approximately 470
    residential units for an aggregate purchase price of
    approximately $111.5 million (excluding transaction costs).
    These properties are located in San Jose, California,
    Brighton, Massachusetts and Seattle, Washington.


 


    Portfolio management can include the use of partnerships and
    joint ventures to allow us to attract and serve high quality
    investment partners, and to rebalance efficiently our geographic
    market allocation of capital while maintaining our local
    operating platform and its operational scale.


 



    Affordable
    Portfolio Management


 


    The portfolio management strategy for our affordable portfolio
    is similar to that for our conventional portfolio. During 2008,
    we invested $113.9 million in redevelopment of affordable
    properties, funded primarily by proceeds from the sale of tax
    credits to institutional partners. As with conventional
    properties, we also seek to dispose of properties that are
    inconsistent with our long-term investment and operating
    strategies. During 2008, we sold 25 properties from our
    affordable portfolio, including six unconsolidated properties,
    generating net cash proceeds to us, after repayment of existing
    debt, payment of transaction costs and distributions to limited
    partners, of $169.8 million. As of December 31, 2008,
    our affordable portfolio included 289 properties with
    33,888 units.


 



    Financial
    Strategy


 


    We are focused on improving liquidity and balancing our sources
    and uses of cash. During 2008, using proceeds from asset
    dispositions, we repaid in full our $75.0 million term loan
    which was scheduled for payment in September 2009, repaid all of
    the outstanding amounts due on our revolving credit facility and
    repurchased approximately $27.0 million of outstanding
    variable rate preferred stock. Also during 2008, in connection
    with property dispositions, we repaid approximately
    $1.1 billion in non-recourse property debt. As of
    December 31, 2008, the amount available under our revolving
    credit facility, which matures in May 2010 (inclusive of a
    one-year extension option we expect to exercise), was
    $578.8 million (after giving effect to $56.2 million
    outstanding for undrawn letters of credit issued under the
    revolving credit facility). Additionally, we had
    $72.0 million of available capacity on our
    $200.0 million non-recourse secured credit facility which,
    inclusive of two one-year extension options, matures in October
    2012. During 2009, we intend to use proceeds from asset
    dispositions to continue to reduce the remaining balance on our
    term loan, which matures in March 2011. That term loan has an
    outstanding balance of $350.0 million after we repaid
    $50.0 million in January 2009. Other than the term loan and
    any borrowings under the revolving credit facility, we have no
    recourse corporate debt.


 


    Our revolving credit facility includes customary financial
    covenants, including the maintenance of specified ratios with
    respect to total indebtedness to gross asset value, total
    secured indebtedness to gross asset value, aggregate recourse
    indebtedness to gross asset value, variable rate debt to total
    indebtedness, debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage;
    the maintenance of a minimum adjusted tangible net worth; and
    limitations regarding the amount of cross-collateralized debt.
    The credit facility includes other customary covenants,
    including a restriction on distributions and other restricted
    payments, but permits distributions during any four consecutive
    fiscal quarters in an aggregate amount of up to 95% of our funds
    from operations for such period, subject to certain non-cash
    adjustments, or such amount as may be necessary to maintain our
    REIT status. These covenants are calculated on a quarterly basis
    and are monitored as various strategic decisions are considered.
    We were in compliance with all such covenants as of
    December 31, 2008.


 


    We are also focused on minimizing our cost of capital on a
    risk-adjusted basis. We primarily use non-recourse property debt
    with laddered maturities and minimize reliance on corporate
    debt. The lower risk inherent in non-recourse property debt
    permits us to operate with higher debt leverage and a lower
    weighted average cost of capital. We use floating rate property
    and corporate debt to provide lower interest costs over time at
    a level that considers acceptable earnings volatility. During
    2008, we closed property loans totaling $962.2 million at
    an average interest rate of 5.51%, which included the
    refinancing of property loans totaling $472.9 million with
    prior interest rates averaging 5.58%. In addition to the
    refinancing activity, the property loans included new financings
    on existing properties, redevelopment loans and the modification
    of terms on existing property debt. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, 38



    
    7



Table of Contents




    property loans will mature and our share of these maturities
    totals $273.9 million, $279.9 million and
    $102.3 million, respectively. We expect to refinance a
    number of such loans in the first half of 2009.


 



    Competition


 


    In attracting and retaining residents to occupy our properties
    we compete with numerous other housing alternatives. Our
    properties compete directly with other rental apartments as well
    as condominiums and single-family homes that are available for
    rent or purchase in the markets in which our properties are
    located. Principal factors of competition include rent or price
    charged, attractiveness of the location and property and quality
    and breadth of services. The number of competitive properties
    relative to demand in a particular area has a material effect on
    our ability to lease apartment units at our properties and on
    the rents we charge. In certain markets there exists oversupply
    of single family homes and condominiums and household
    consolidation, both of which affect the pricing and occupancy of
    our rental apartments. Additionally, we compete with other real
    estate investors, including other apartment REITs, pension and
    investment funds, partnerships and investment companies in
    acquiring, redeveloping and managing apartment properties. This
    competition affects our ability to acquire properties we want to
    add to our portfolio and the price that we pay in such
    acquisitions.


 



    Taxation


 


    We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code,
    commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994,
    and intend to continue to operate in such a manner. Our current
    and continuing qualification as a REIT depends on our ability to
    meet the various requirements imposed by the Code, which relate
    to organizational structure, distribution levels, diversity of
    stock ownership and certain restrictions with regard to owned
    assets and categories of income. If we qualify for taxation as a
    REIT, we will generally not be subject to United States Federal
    corporate income tax on our taxable income that is currently
    distributed to stockholders. This treatment substantially
    eliminates the “double taxation” (at the corporate and
    stockholder levels) that generally results from an investment in
    a corporation.


 


    Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to United States
    Federal income and excise taxes in various situations, such as
    on our undistributed income. We also will be required to pay a
    100% tax on any net income on non-arm’s length transactions
    between us and a TRS (described below) and on any net income
    from sales of property that was property held for sale to
    customers in the ordinary course. We and our stockholders may be
    subject to state or local taxation in various state or local
    jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business or
    our stockholders reside. In addition, we could also be subject
    to the alternative minimum tax, or AMT, on our items of tax
    preference. The state and local tax laws may not conform to the
    United States Federal income tax treatment. Any taxes imposed on
    us reduce our operating cash flow and net income.


 


    Certain of our operations (property management, asset
    management, risk, etc.) are conducted through taxable REIT
    subsidiaries, each of which we refer to as a TRS. A TRS is a
    C-corporation that has not elected REIT status and, as such, is
    subject to United States Federal corporate income tax. We use
    TRS entities to facilitate our ability to offer certain services
    and activities to our residents and investment partners, as
    these services and activities generally cannot be offered
    directly by the REIT.


 



    Regulation


 



    General


 


    Apartment properties and their owners are subject to various
    laws, ordinances and regulations, including those related to
    real estate broker licensing and regulations relating to
    recreational facilities such as swimming pools, activity centers
    and other common areas. Changes in laws increasing the potential
    liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or
    increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions,
    as well as changes in laws affecting development, construction
    and safety requirements, may result in significant unanticipated
    expenditures, which would adversely affect our net income and
    cash flows from operating activities. In addition, future
    enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws, such as
    legislation that has been considered in New York, or other laws
    regulating multifamily housing may reduce rental revenue or
    increase operating costs in particular markets.



    
    8



Table of Contents





    Environmental


 


    Various Federal, state and local laws subject property owners or
    operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal
    or remediation, of certain hazardous substances present on a
    property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to
    whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for,
    the release or presence of the hazardous substances. In
    connection with the ownership, operation and management of
    properties, we could potentially be liable for environmental
    liabilities or costs associated with our properties or
    properties we acquire or manage in the future. These and other
    risks related to environmental matters are described in more
    detail in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”


 



    Insurance


 


    Our primary lines of insurance coverage are property, general
    liability, and workers’ compensation. We believe that our
    insurance coverages adequately insure our properties against the
    risk of loss attributable to fire, earthquake, hurricane,
    tornado, flood, terrorism and other perils, and adequately
    insure us against other risk. Our coverage includes deductibles,
    retentions and limits that are customary in the industry. We
    have established loss prevention, loss mitigation, claims
    handling, litigation management and loss reserving procedures to
    manage our exposure.


 



    Employees


 


    At December 31, 2008, we had approximately
    4,500 employees, of which approximately 3,400 were at the
    property level, performing various
    on-site
    functions, with the balance managing corporate and area
    operations, including investment and debt transactions, legal,
    financial reporting, accounting, information systems, human
    resources and other support functions. Unions represent
    approximately 120 of our employees. We have never experienced a
    work stoppage and believe we maintain satisfactory relations
    with our employees.


 


    As further described in Note 3 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Item 8, we initiated an
    organizational restructuring during 2008. As a result of the
    restructuring, we plan to eliminate approximately 300 jobs on or
    before March 1, 2009, with reductions in staffing within
    corporate, redevelopment and construction services, property
    management and investment management functions. Approximately
    half of the planned job eliminations had been completed at
    December 31, 2008.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted
    throughout this Annual Report, describe certain risks and
    uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.


 



    Our
    existing and future debt financing could render us unable to
    operate, result in foreclosure on our properties, prevent us
    from making distributions on our equity or otherwise adversely
    affect our liquidity.


 


    We are subject to the risk that our cash flow from operations
    will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and
    interest, and the risk that existing indebtedness may not be
    refinanced or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as
    favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we fail to
    make required payments of principal and interest on secured
    debt, our lenders could foreclose on the properties and other
    collateral securing such debt, which would result in loss of
    income and asset value to us. As of December 31, 2008,
    substantially all of the properties that we owned or controlled
    were encumbered by debt. Our organizational documents do not
    limit the amount of debt that we may incur, and we have
    significant amounts of debt outstanding. Payments of principal
    and interest may leave us with insufficient cash resources to
    operate our properties or pay distributions required to be paid
    in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT.


 


    Our strategy is generally to incur debt to increase the return
    on our equity while maintaining acceptable coverage ratios. For
    the year ended December 31, 2008, we had a ratio of free
    cash flow (net operating income less spending for capital
    replacements) to combined interest expense and preferred stock
    dividends of 1.43:1. For the year ended December 31, 2008,
    as calculated based on the provisions in our credit agreement,
    which is further



    
    9



Table of Contents




    discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Item 8, we had a ratio of earnings before
    interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization to debt
    service of 1.63:1 and a ratio of earnings to fixed charges of
    1.43:1.


 


    At December 31, 2008, we had swap positions with two
    financial institutions totaling $422.1 million. The related
    swap agreements provide for collateral calls to maintain
    specified loan-to-value ratios. In the event the values of the
    real estate properties serving as collateral under these
    agreements decline, we may be required to provide additional
    collateral pursuant to the swap agreements, which would
    adversely affect our cash flows.


 



    Disruptions
    in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain
    financing and the cost of available financing and could
    adversely affect our liquidity.


 


    Our ability to obtain financing and the cost of such financing
    depends on the overall condition of the United States credit
    markets and the level of involvement of certain government
    sponsored entities, specifically, Federal Home Loan Mortgage
    Corporation, or Freddie Mac, and Federal National Mortgage
    Association, or Fannie Mae, in secondary credit markets.
    Recently the United States credit markets have experienced
    significant liquidity disruptions, which have caused the spreads
    on debt financings to widen considerably and have made obtaining
    financing, both non-recourse property debt and corporate
    borrowings, such as our term loan or revolving credit facility,
    more difficult.


 


    Further or prolonged disruptions in the credit markets could
    result in Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae reducing their level of
    involvement in secondary credits markets which would adversely
    affect our ability to obtain non-recourse property debt
    financing. Additionally, further or prolonged disruptions in the
    credit markets could lead to the failure of additional financial
    companies, some of which may have financial commitments within
    our revolving credit facility. This may affect our access to
    liquidity through our credit facility’s scheduled maturity
    in May 2010 (inclusive of a one-year extension option we expect
    to exercise). When the revolving credit facility matures,
    disruptions in the credit markets may also affect our ability to
    renew such credit facility with similar commitments.


 


    If our ability to obtain financing is adversely affected, we may
    be unable to satisfy scheduled maturities on existing financing
    through other sources of liquidity, which could result in lender
    foreclosure on the properties securing such debt and loss of
    income and asset value, each of which would adversely affect our
    liquidity.


 



    Increases
    in interest rates would increase our interest expense and reduce
    our profitability.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately
    $1,309.5 million of variable-rate indebtedness outstanding
    and $73.0 million of variable rate preferred stock
    outstanding. Of the total debt subject to variable interest
    rates, floating rate tax-exempt bond financing was
    $563.4 million. Floating rate tax-exempt bond financing is
    benchmarked against the Securities Industry and Financial
    Markets Association Municipal Swap Index, or SIFMA, rate
    (previously the Bond Market Association index), which since 1989
    has averaged 69% of the
    30-day LIBOR
    rate. If this historical relationship continues, we estimate
    that an increase in
    30-day LIBOR
    of 1.0% (0.69% in tax-exempt interest rates) with constant
    credit risk spreads would result in our income before minority
    interests being reduced by $11.6 million and our income
    attributable to common stockholders being reduced by
    $11.1 million on an annual basis. At December 31,
    2008, we had approximately $717.2 million in cash and cash
    equivalents, restricted cash and notes receivable, the majority
    of which bear interest. We also had approximately
    $127.3 million of variable rate debt associated with our
    redevelopment activities, for which we capitalize a portion of
    the interest expense. The effect of our interest-bearing assets
    and of capitalizing interest on variable rate debt associated
    with our redevelopment activities would partially reduce the
    effect of an increase in variable interest rates. Considering
    these offsets, the same increase in
    30-day LIBOR
    would result in our income before minority interests being
    reduced by $3.1 million and our income attributable to
    common stockholders being reduced by $4.3 million on an
    annual basis.


 



    Failure
    to generate sufficient net operating income may limit our
    ability to fund necessary capital expenditures or adversely
    affect our ability to pay dividends.


 


    Our ability to fund necessary capital expenditures on our
    properties depends on our ability to generate net operating
    income in excess of required debt payments. If we are unable to
    fund capital expenditures on our properties, we may not be able
    to preserve the competitiveness of our properties, which could
    adversely affect our net operating income.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    Our ability to make payments to our investors depends on our
    ability to generate net operating income in excess of required
    debt payments and capital expenditure requirements. Our net
    operating income and liquidity may be adversely affected by
    events or conditions beyond our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the general economic climate;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition from other apartment communities and other housing
    options;




 



     
        • 

    
    local conditions, such as loss of jobs or an increase in the
    supply of apartments, that might adversely affect apartment
    occupancy or rental rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in governmental regulations and the related cost of
    compliance;




 



     
        • 

    
    increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes) due
    to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by
    increased rents;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in tax laws and housing laws, including the enactment of
    rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily
    housing; and




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in interest rates and the availability of financing.





 



    Covenant
    restrictions may limit our ability to make payments to our
    investors.


 


    Some of our debt and other securities contain covenants that
    restrict our ability to make distributions or other payments to
    our investors unless certain financial tests or other criteria
    are satisfied. Our credit facility provides, among other things,
    that we may make distributions to our investors during any four
    consecutive fiscal quarters in an aggregate amount that does not
    exceed the greater of 95% of our Funds From Operations for such
    period, subject to certain non-cash adjustments, or such amount
    as may be necessary to maintain our REIT status. Our outstanding
    classes of preferred stock prohibit the payment of dividends on
    our Common Stock if we fail to pay the dividends to which the
    holders of the preferred stock are entitled.


 



    Because
    real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may not be
    able to sell properties when appropriate.


 


    Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and cannot
    always be sold quickly. Our freedom to sell properties is also
    restricted by REIT tax rules. Thus, we may not be able to change
    our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or
    other market conditions. We also intend to use proceeds from
    property sales to repay our corporate debt. Our ability to
    dispose of assets in the future will depend on prevailing
    economic and market conditions, including the cost and
    availability of financing. This could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition or results of operations.


 



    Competition
    could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or
    maintain rents.


 


    Our apartment properties compete for residents with other
    housing alternatives, including other rental apartments,
    condominiums and single-family homes that are available for
    rent, as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family
    homes for sale. Competitive residential housing in a particular
    area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartments and
    to increase or maintain rental rates. The current challenges in
    the credit and housing markets have increased housing inventory
    that competes with our apartment properties.


 



    Our
    subsidiaries may be prohibited from making distributions and
    other payments to us.


 


    All of our properties are owned, and all of our operations are
    conducted, by the Aimco Operating Partnership and our other
    subsidiaries. As a result, we depend on distributions and other
    payments from our subsidiaries in order to satisfy our financial
    obligations and make payments to our investors. The ability of
    our subsidiaries to make such distributions and other payments
    depends on their earnings and cash flows and may be subject to
    statutory or contractual limitations. As an equity investor in
    our subsidiaries, our right to receive assets upon their
    liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated
    to the claims of their creditors. To the extent that we are
    recognized



    
    11



Table of Contents




    as a creditor of such subsidiaries, our claims may still be
    subordinate to any security interest in or other lien on their
    assets and to any of their debt or other obligations that are
    senior to our claims.


 



    Redevelopment
    and construction risks could affect our
    profitability.


 


    We intend to continue to redevelop certain of our properties.
    These activities are subject to the following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining,
    necessary zoning, occupancy, or other required governmental or
    third party permits and authorizations, which could result in
    increased costs or the delay or abandonment of opportunities;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may incur costs that exceed our original estimates due to
    increased material, labor or other costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to complete construction and lease up of a
    property on schedule, resulting in increased construction and
    financing costs and a decrease in expected rental revenues;




 



     
        • 

    
    occupancy rates and rents at a property may fail to meet our
    expectations for a number of reasons, including changes in
    market and economic conditions beyond our control and the
    development by competitors of competing communities;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at
    all, for the proposed development of a property, which may cause
    us to delay or abandon an opportunity;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may abandon opportunities that we have already begun to
    explore for a number of reasons, including changes in local
    market conditions or increases in construction or financing
    costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover expenses already
    incurred in exploring those opportunities;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may incur liabilities to third parties during the
    redevelopment process, for example, in connection with resident
    lease terminations, or managing existing improvements on the
    site prior to resident lease terminations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    loss of a key member of a project team could adversely affect
    our ability to deliver redevelopment projects on time and within
    our budget.





 



    If we
    are not successful in our acquisition of properties, our results
    of operations could be adversely affected.


 


    The selective acquisition of properties is a component of our
    strategy. However, we may not be able to complete transactions
    successfully in the future. Although we seek to acquire
    properties when such acquisitions increase our net income, Funds
    From Operations or net asset value, such transactions may fail
    to perform in accordance with our expectations. In particular,
    following acquisition, the value and operational performance of
    a property may be diminished if obsolescence or neighborhood
    changes occur before we are able to redevelop or sell the
    property.


 



    We may
    be subject to litigation associated with partnership
    acquisitions that could increase our expenses and prevent
    completion of beneficial transactions.


 


    We have engaged in, and intend to continue to engage in, the
    selective acquisition of interests in partnerships controlled by
    us that own apartment properties. In some cases, we have
    acquired the general partner of a partnership and then made an
    offer to acquire the limited partners’ interests in the
    partnership. In these transactions, we may be subject to
    litigation based on claims that we, as the general partner, have
    breached our fiduciary duty to our limited partners or that the
    transaction violates the relevant partnership agreement or state
    law. Although we intend to comply with our fiduciary obligations
    and the relevant partnership agreements, we may incur additional
    costs in connection with the defense or settlement of this type
    of litigation. In some cases, this type of litigation may
    adversely affect our desire to proceed with, or our ability to
    complete, a particular transaction. Any litigation of this type
    could also have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition or results of operations.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    We are
    self-insured for certain risks, and the cost of insurance,
    increased claims activity or losses resulting from catastrophic
    events may affect our operating results and financial
    condition.


 


    We are self-insured for a portion of our consolidated
    properties’ exposure to casualty losses resulting from
    fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood and other perils. We
    recognize casualty losses or gains based on the net book value
    of the affected property and any related insurance proceeds. In
    many instances, the actual cost to repair or replace the
    property may exceed its net book value and any insurance
    proceeds. We also insure certain unconsolidated properties for a
    portion of their exposure to such losses. In addition, we are
    self-insured for a portion of our exposure to third-party claims
    related to our employee health insurance plans, workers’
    compensation coverage and general liability exposure. With
    respect to our insurance obligations to unconsolidated
    properties and our exposure to claims of third parties, we
    establish reserves at levels that reflect our known and
    estimated losses. The ultimate cost of losses and the impact of
    unforeseen events may vary materially from recorded reserves,
    and variances may adversely affect our operating results and
    financial condition. We purchase insurance (or reinsurance where
    we insure unconsolidated properties) to reduce our exposure to
    losses and limit our financial losses on large individual risks.
    The availability and cost of insurance are determined by market
    conditions outside our control. No assurance can be made that we
    will be able to obtain and maintain insurance at the same levels
    and on the same terms as we do today. If we are not able to
    obtain or maintain insurance in amounts we consider appropriate
    for our business, or if the cost of obtaining such insurance
    increases materially, we may have to retain a larger portion of
    the potential loss associated with our exposures to risks. The
    extent of our losses in connection with catastrophic events is a
    function of the severity of the event and the total amount of
    exposure in the affected area. When we have geographic
    concentration of exposures, a single catastrophe (such as an
    earthquake) or destructive weather trend affecting a region may
    have a significant impact on our financial condition and results
    of operations. We cannot accurately predict catastrophes, or the
    number and type of catastrophic events that will affect us. As a
    result, our operating and financial results may vary
    significantly from one period to the next. While we anticipate
    and plan for losses, there can be no assurance that our
    financial results will not be adversely affected by our exposure
    to losses arising from catastrophic events in the future that
    exceed our previous experience and assumptions.


 



    We
    depend on our senior management.


 


    Our success depends upon the retention of our senior management,
    including Terry Considine, our chief executive officer. There
    are no assurances that we would be able to find qualified
    replacements for the individuals who make up our senior
    management if their services were no longer available. The loss
    of services of one or more members of our senior management team
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations. We do not currently
    maintain key-man life insurance for any of our employees. The
    loss of any member of senior management could adversely affect
    our ability to pursue effectively our business strategy.


 



    Government
    housing regulations may limit the opportunities at some of our
    properties and failure to comply with resident qualification
    requirements may result in financial penalties and/or loss of
    benefits, such as rental revenues paid by government
    agencies.


 


    We own consolidated and unconsolidated equity interests in
    certain properties and manage other properties that benefit from
    governmental programs intended to provide housing to people with
    low or moderate incomes. These programs, which are usually
    administered by HUD or state housing finance agencies, typically
    provide mortgage insurance, favorable financing terms,
    tax-credit equity, or rental assistance payments to the property
    owners. As a condition of the receipt of assistance under these
    programs, the properties must comply with various requirements,
    which typically limit rents to pre-approved amounts and impose
    restrictions on resident incomes. Failure to comply with these
    requirements and restrictions may result in financial penalties
    or loss of benefits. We usually need to obtain the approval of
    HUD in order to acquire or dispose of a significant interest in
    or manage a HUD-assisted property. We may not always receive
    such approval.


 


    During 2008, 2007 and 2006, for continuing and discontinued
    operations, our rental revenues include $119.1 million,
    $123.8 million and $135.2 million, respectively, of
    subsidies from government agencies. Any loss of such benefits
    would adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    Laws
    benefiting disabled persons may result in our incurrence of
    unanticipated expenses.


 


    Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all
    places intended to be used by the public are required to meet
    certain Federal requirements related to access and use by
    disabled persons. Likewise, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of
    1988, or FHAA, requires apartment properties first occupied
    after March 13, 1990, to be accessible to the handicapped.
    These and other Federal, state and local laws may require
    modifications to our properties, or affect renovations of the
    properties. Noncompliance with these laws could result in the
    imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants
    and also could result in an order to correct any non-complying
    feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures.
    Although we believe that our properties are substantially in
    compliance with present requirements, we may incur unanticipated
    expenses to comply with the ADA and the FHAA in connection with
    the ongoing operation or redevelopment of our properties.


 



    Potential
    liability or other expenditures associated with potential
    environmental contamination may be costly.


 


    Various Federal, state and local laws subject property owners or
    operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal
    or remediation, of certain hazardous substances present on a
    property, including lead-based paint. Such laws often impose
    liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew
    of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of the
    hazardous substances. The presence of, or the failure to manage
    or remedy properly, hazardous substances may adversely affect
    occupancy at affected apartment communities and the ability to
    sell or finance affected properties. In addition to the costs
    associated with investigation and remediation actions brought by
    government agencies, and potential fines or penalties imposed by
    such agencies in connection therewith, the presence of hazardous
    substances on a property could result in claims by private
    plaintiffs for personal injury, disease, disability or other
    infirmities. Various laws also impose liability for the cost of
    removal, remediation or disposal of hazardous substances through
    a licensed disposal or treatment facility. Anyone who arranges
    for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances is
    potentially liable under such laws. These laws often impose
    liability whether or not the person arranging for the disposal
    ever owned or operated the disposal facility. In connection with
    the ownership, operation and management of properties, we could
    potentially be liable for environmental liabilities or costs
    associated with our properties or properties we acquire or
    manage in the future.


 



    Moisture
    infiltration and resulting mold remediation may be
    costly.


 


    We have been named as a defendant in lawsuits that have alleged
    personal injury and property damage as a result of the presence
    of mold. In addition, we are aware of lawsuits against owners
    and managers of multifamily properties asserting claims of
    personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of
    mold, some of which have resulted in substantial monetary
    judgments or settlements. We have only limited insurance
    coverage for property damage loss claims arising from the
    presence of mold and for personal injury claims related to mold
    exposure. We have implemented policies, procedures, third-party
    audits and training, and include a detailed moisture intrusion
    and mold assessment during acquisition due diligence. We believe
    these measures will prevent or eliminate mold exposure from our
    properties and will minimize the effects that mold may have on
    our residents. To date, we have not incurred any material costs
    or liabilities relating to claims of mold exposure or to abate
    mold conditions. Because the law regarding mold is unsettled and
    subject to change, we can make no assurance that liabilities
    resulting from the presence of or exposure to mold will not have
    a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
    condition or results of operations.


 



    We may
    fail to qualify as a REIT.


 


    If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be allowed a
    deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders in computing
    our taxable income, and we will be subject to Federal income tax
    at regular corporate rates, including any applicable alternative
    minimum tax. This would substantially reduce our funds available
    for payment to our investors. Unless entitled to relief under
    certain provisions of the Code, we also would be disqualified
    from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the
    year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. In addition,
    our failure to qualify as a REIT would place us in default under
    our primary credit facilities.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    We believe that we operate, and have always operated, in a
    manner that enables us to meet the requirements for
    qualification as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes. Our
    continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our
    satisfaction of certain asset, income, investment,
    organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other
    requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the
    asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market values
    of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise
    determination, and for which we will not obtain independent
    appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly
    asset requirements also depends upon our ability to manage
    successfully the composition of our income and assets on an
    ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an
    instrument as debt or equity for Federal income tax purposes may
    be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the
    application of the REIT qualification requirements. Accordingly,
    there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, or
    the IRS, will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or
    other issuers constitutes a violation of the REIT requirements.
    Moreover, future economic, market, legal, tax or other
    considerations may cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT, or our
    Board of Directors may determine to revoke our REIT status.


 



    REIT
    distribution requirements limit our available
    cash.


 


    As a REIT, we are subject to annual distribution requirements,
    which generally limit the amount of cash we retain for other
    business purposes, including amounts to fund our growth. We
    generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our
    net REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain, in
    order for our distributed earnings not to be subject to
    corporate income tax. We intend to make distributions to our
    stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Code.
    However, differences in timing between the recognition of
    taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us
    to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term
    basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement of the Code.


 



    We
    have in the past chosen, and may in the future choose, to pay
    dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to
    pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends you
    receive.


 


    We have in the past distributed, and may in the future
    distribute, taxable dividends that are payable in cash and
    shares of our Common Stock. Stockholders subject to the payment
    of income tax receiving such dividends will be required to
    include the full amount of the dividend as taxable income to the
    extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for
    U.S. Federal income tax purposes. As a result, a
    U.S. stockholder may be required to pay income taxes with
    respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends
    received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives
    as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may
    be less than the amount included in income with respect to the
    dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time
    of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to
    non-U.S. stockholders,
    we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to
    such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such
    dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant
    number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our
    Common Stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put
    downward pressure on the trading price of our Common Stock.


 


    Further, various aspects of such a taxable cash/stock dividend
    are uncertain and have not yet been addressed by the IRS. No
    assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose additional
    requirements in the future with respect to taxable cash/stock
    dividends, including on a retroactive basis, or assert that the
    requirements for such taxable cash/stock dividends have not been
    met.


 



    Limits
    on ownership of shares in our charter may result in the loss of
    economic and voting rights by purchasers that violate those
    limits.


 


    Our charter limits ownership of our Common Stock by any single
    stockholder (applying certain “beneficial ownership”
    rules under the Federal securities laws) to 8.7% of our
    outstanding shares of Common Stock, or 15% in the case of
    certain pension trusts, registered investment companies and
    Mr. Considine. Our charter also limits ownership of our
    Common Stock and preferred stock by any single stockholder to
    8.7% of the value of the outstanding Common Stock and preferred
    stock, or 15% in the case of certain pension trusts, registered
    investment companies and Mr. Considine. The charter also
    prohibits anyone from buying shares of our capital stock if the
    purchase would result in us losing our REIT status. This could
    happen if a transaction results in fewer than 100 persons
    owning all of our shares of capital stock or results in five or
    fewer persons (applying certain attribution



    
    15



Table of Contents




    rules of the Code) owning 50% or more of the value of all of our
    shares of capital stock. If anyone acquires shares in excess of
    the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership
    requirements of the Code for REITs:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the transfer will be considered null and void;




 



     
        • 

    
    we will not reflect the transaction on our books;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may demand repayment of any dividends received by the
    affected person on those shares;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may redeem the shares;




 



     
        • 

    
    the affected person will not have any voting rights for those
    shares; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the shares (and all voting and dividend rights of the shares)
    will be held in trust for the benefit of one or more charitable
    organizations designated by us.





 


    We may purchase the shares of capital stock held in trust at a
    price equal to the lesser of the price paid by the transferee of
    the shares or the then current market price. If the trust
    transfers any of the shares of capital stock, the affected
    person will receive the lesser of the price paid for the shares
    or the then current market price. An individual who acquires
    shares of capital stock that violate the above rules bears the
    risk that the individual:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    may lose control over the power to dispose of such shares;




 



     
        • 

    
    may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the
    market price of the shares increases;




 



     
        • 

    
    may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares
    if the market price decreases; and




 



     
        • 

    
    may be required to repay to us any distributions received from
    us as a result of his or her ownership of the shares.





 



    Our
    charter may limit the ability of a third party to acquire
    control of us.


 


    The 8.7% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of
    precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without
    the consent of our Board of Directors. Our charter authorizes
    our Board of Directors to issue up to 510,587,500 shares of
    capital stock. As of December 31, 2008,
    426,157,736 shares were classified as Common Stock, of
    which 101,176,232 were outstanding, and 84,429,764 shares
    were classified as preferred stock, of which 24,950,146 were
    outstanding. Under our charter, our Board of Directors has the
    authority to classify and reclassify any of our unissued shares
    of capital stock into shares of capital stock with such
    preferences, rights, powers and restrictions as our Board of
    Directors may determine. The authorization and issuance of a new
    class of capital stock could have the effect of delaying or
    preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change
    in control were in our stockholders’ best interests.


 



    Maryland
    business statutes may limit the ability of a third party to
    acquire control of us.


 


    As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to various Maryland
    laws that may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire
    us and increasing the difficulty of consummating any such
    offers, even if an acquisition would be in our
    stockholders’ best interests. The Maryland General
    Corporation Law restricts mergers and other business combination
    transactions between us and any person who acquires beneficial
    ownership of shares of our stock representing 10% or more of the
    voting power without our Board of Directors’ prior
    approval. Any such business combination transaction could not be
    completed until five years after the person acquired such voting
    power, and generally only with the approval of stockholders
    representing 80% of all votes entitled to be cast and
    662/3%
    of the votes entitled to be cast, excluding the interested
    stockholder, or upon payment of a fair price. Maryland law also
    provides generally that a person who acquires shares of our
    capital stock that represent 10% or more of the voting power in
    electing directors will have no voting rights unless approved by
    a vote of two-thirds of the shares eligible to vote.
    Additionally, Maryland law provides, among other things, that
    the board of directors has broad discretion in



    
    16



Table of Contents




    adopting stockholders’ rights plans and has the sole power
    to fix the record date, time and place for special meetings of
    the stockholders. In addition, Maryland law provides that
    corporations that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    have at least three directors who are not employees of the
    entity or related to an acquiring person; and




 



     
        • 

    
    are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934,





 


    may elect in their charter or bylaws or by resolution of the
    board of directors to be subject to all or part of a special
    subtitle that provides that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the corporation will have a staggered board of directors;




 



     
        • 

    
    any director may be removed only for cause and by the vote of
    two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of
    directors generally, even if a lesser proportion is provided in
    the charter or bylaws;




 



     
        • 

    
    the number of directors may only be set by the board of
    directors, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or
    bylaws;




 



     
        • 

    
    vacancies may only be filled by the remaining directors, even if
    the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the secretary of the corporation may call a special meeting of
    stockholders at the request of stockholders only on the written
    request of the stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority
    of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting, even if the
    procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws.





 


    To date, we have not made any of the elections described above.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B