, “Risk Factors.”InsuranceOur primary lines of insurance coverage are property, general liability, and workers’ compensation.  We believe that our insurance coverages adequately insure our apartment communities against the risk of loss attributable to fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood, terrorism and other perils, and adequately insure us against other risk.  Our coverage includes deductibles, retentions and limits that are customary in the industry.  We have established loss prevention, loss mitigation, claims handling and litigation management procedures to manage our exposure.EmployeesAt December 31, 2015, we had 1,591 employees, of which 1,108 were at the apartment community level, performing various on-site functions, with the balance managing corporate and area operations, including investment and debt transactions, legal, financial reporting, accounting, information systems, human resources and other support functions.  As of December 31, 2015, unions represented 89 of our employees. We have never experienced a work stoppage and believe we maintain satisfactory relations with our employees.  Available InformationOur combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, our combined Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K filed by Aimco or the Aimco Operating Partnership and any amendments to any of those reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable through Aimco’s website at www.aimco.com.   The information contained on Aimco’s website is not incorporated into this Annual Report.  Aimco’s Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “AIV.”  In 2015, Aimco’s chief executive officer submitted his annual corporate governance listing standards certification to the New York Stock Exchange, which certification was unqualified.Item 1A.  Risk FactorsThe risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted throughout this Annual Report, describe certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.Redevelopment, development and construction risks could affect our profitability. We are currently redeveloping, and we intend to continue to redevelop, certain of our apartment communities.  Additionally, we are developing a 12-story apartment building in Boston, Massachusetts.  During 2016, we expect to invest approximately $180 million to $220 million in conventional redevelopment and development activities.  Redevelopment and development activities are subject to the following risks: •we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, occupancy, or other required governmental or third party permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or the delay or abandonment of opportunities; •we may incur costs that exceed our original estimates due to increased material, labor or other costs, such as litigation; •we may be unable to complete construction and lease up of an apartment community on schedule, resulting in increased construction and financing costs and a decrease in expected rental revenues;•occupancy rates and rents at an apartment community may fail to meet our expectations for a number of reasons, including changes in market and economic conditions beyond our control and the development by competitors of competing communities; •we may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at all, which may cause us to delay or abandon an opportunity;•we may abandon opportunities that we have already begun to explore for a number of reasons, including changes in local market conditions or increases in construction or financing costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover costs already incurred in exploring those opportunities;•we may incur liabilities to third parties during the redevelopment or development process;  •unexpected events or circumstances may arise during the redevelopment or development process that affect the timing of completion and the cost and profitability of the project; and•loss of a key member of a project team could adversely affect our ability to deliver projects on time and within our budget.7Table of ContentsIf we are not successful in our acquisition of apartment communities, our results of operations could be adversely affected.The selective acquisition of apartment communities is a component of our strategy. However, we may not be able to complete transactions successfully in the future. Although we seek to acquire apartment communities when such acquisitions increase our Net Asset Value, Adjusted Funds From Operations, Pro forma Funds From Operations and property net operating income, such transactions may fail to perform in accordance with our expectations.  In particular, following acquisition, the value and operational performance of an apartment community may be diminished if obsolescence or neighborhood changes occur before we are able to redevelop or sell the community.Acquisitions of under development or unoccupied apartment communities may fail to perform as expected.We may acquire apartment communities that are under development or otherwise unoccupied at the time of acquisition, and we may not be able to achieve expected occupancy levels or rental rates for these communities, resulting in lower than expected net operating income. Additionally, we may underestimate the costs necessary to bring such communities up to expected occupancy levels, which may result in lower than expected net operating income for these communities. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may not be able to sell apartment communities when appropriate. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and cannot always be sold quickly.  REIT tax rules also restrict our ability to sell apartment communities. Thus, we may not be able to change our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other market conditions. Our ability to dispose of apartment communities in the future will depend on prevailing economic and market conditions, including the cost and availability of financing. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.Competition could limit our ability to lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents. Our apartment communities compete for residents with other housing alternatives, including other rental apartments and condominiums, and, to a lesser degree, single-family homes that are available for rent, as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential housing as well as household formation and job creation in a particular area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartment homes and to increase or maintain rental rates.   Failure to generate sufficient net operating income may adversely affect our liquidity, limit our ability to fund necessary capital expenditures or adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or distributions.Our ability to fund necessary capital expenditures on our apartment communities depends on, among other things, our ability to generate net operating income in excess of required debt payments.  If we are unable to fund capital expenditures on our apartment communities, we may not be able to preserve the competitiveness of our communities, which could adversely affect our net operating income and long term value.Our ability to make payments to our investors depends on our ability to generate net operating income in excess of required debt payments and capital expenditure requirements. Our net operating income and liquidity may be adversely affected by events or conditions beyond our control, including:•the general economic climate;•an inflationary environment in which the costs to operate and maintain our communities increase at a rate greater than our ability to increase rents, which we can only do upon renewal of existing leases or at the inception of new leases;•competition from other apartment communities and other housing options;•local conditions, such as loss of jobs, unemployment rates or an increase in the supply of apartments, that might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates;•changes in governmental regulations and the related cost of compliance;•changes in tax laws and housing laws, including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; and•changes in interest rates and the availability of financing.8Table of ContentsOur existing and future debt financing could render us unable to operate, result in foreclosure of our apartment communities, prevent us from making distributions on our equity or otherwise adversely affect our liquidity.We are subject to the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest, and the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we fail to make required payments of principal and interest on our non-recourse debt, our lenders could foreclose on the apartment communities and other collateral securing such debt, which would result in loss of income and asset value to us. As of December 31, 2015, the majority of our apartment communities were encumbered by debt.  Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur, and we have significant amounts of debt outstanding. Payments of principal and interest may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our communities or pay distributions required to be paid in order to maintain Aimco’s qualification as a REIT.Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing and the cost of available financing and could adversely affect our liquidity.Our ability to obtain financing and the cost of such financing depends on the overall condition of the United States credit markets. During periods of economic uncertainty, the United States credit markets may experience significant liquidity disruptions, which may cause the spreads on debt financings to widen considerably and make obtaining financing, both non-recourse property debt and corporate borrowings, such as our Credit Agreement, more difficult.  Additionally, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, and Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, have historically provided significant capital at a relatively low cost to finance multifamily properties.  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are under conservatorship by the Housing Finance Agency, and their future role in the housing finance market is uncertain.  If there is any significant reduction in Freddie Mac’s or Fannie Mae’s level of involvement in the secondary credit markets, it may adversely affect the pricing at which we may obtain non-recourse property debt financing.  If our ability to obtain financing is adversely affected, we may be unable to satisfy scheduled maturities on existing financing through other sources of liquidity, which could result in lender foreclosure on the apartment communities securing such debt and loss of income and asset value, each of which would adversely affect our liquidity.Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense and reduce our profitability.As of December 31, 2015, on a consolidated basis, we had approximately $111.9 million of variable-rate indebtedness outstanding.  We estimate that an increase in 30-day LIBOR of 100 basis points with constant credit risk spreads would result in our net income and the amount of net income attributable to our common security holders (including Aimco common stockholders and the Aimco Operating Partnership’s common unitholders) being reduced (or the amounts of net loss and net loss attributable to our common equity holders being increased) by approximately $0.9 million, on an annual basis.  At December 31, 2015, we had approximately $137.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, a portion of which bear interest at variable rates indexed to LIBOR-based rates, and which may mitigate the effect of an increase in variable rates on our variable-rate indebtedness discussed above.  Covenant restrictions may limit our ability to make payments to our investors.Some of our debt and other securities contain covenants that restrict our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. Our Credit Agreement provides, among other things, that we may make distributions to our investors during any four consecutive fiscal quarters in an aggregate amount that does not exceed the greater of 95% of our Funds From Operations for such period, subject to certain non-cash adjustments, or such amount as may be necessary to maintain Aimco’s REIT status. Our outstanding classes of preferred stock or preferred units prohibit the payment of dividends on our Common Stock or common partnership units if we fail to pay the dividends to which the holders of the preferred stock or preferred units are entitled.   Our subsidiaries may be prohibited from making distributions and other payments to us.All of Aimco’s apartment communities are owned, and all of Aimco’s operations are conducted, by the Aimco Operating Partnership.  Further, many of the Aimco Operating Partnership’s apartment communities are owned by other subsidiaries. As a result, Aimco depends on distributions and other payments from the Aimco Operating Partnership, and the Aimco Operating Partnership depends on distributions and payments from its subsidiaries in order to satisfy our collective financial obligations and make payments to our investors.  The ability of the Aimco Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries to make such distributions and other payments depends on their earnings and cash flows and may be subject to statutory or contractual limitations. As an equity investor in the Aimco Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, our right to receive assets upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of their creditors. To the extent that we are recognized as a creditor 9Table of Contentsof such subsidiaries, our claims may still be subordinate to any security interest in or other lien on their assets and to any of their debt or other obligations that are senior to our claims.Potential liability or other expenditures associated with potential environmental contamination may be costly.Various Federal, state and local laws subject apartment community owners or operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal or remediation, of certain potentially hazardous materials that may be present in the land or buildings of an apartment community. Potentially hazardous materials may include polychlorinated biphenyls, petroleum-based fuels, lead-based paint, or asbestos. Such laws often impose liability without regard to fault or whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such materials. The presence of, or the failure to manage or remediate properly, these materials may adversely affect occupancy at such apartment communities as well as the ability to sell or finance such apartment communities.  In addition, governmental agencies may bring claims for costs associated with investigation and remediation actions, damages to natural resources and for potential fines or penalties in connection with such damage or with respect to the improper management of hazardous materials.  Moreover, private plaintiffs may potentially make claims for investigation and remediation costs they incur or personal injury, disease, disability or other infirmities related to the alleged presence of hazardous materials at an apartment community.  In addition to potential environmental liabilities or costs associated with our current apartment communities, we may also be responsible for such liabilities or costs associated with communities we acquire or manage in the future, or apartment communities we no longer own or operate.Laws benefiting disabled persons may result in our incurrence of unanticipated expenses.Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all places intended to be used by the public are required to meet certain Federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, or FHAA, requires apartment communities first occupied after March 13, 1991, to comply with design and construction requirements for disabled access. For those projects receiving Federal funds, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 also has requirements regarding disabled access. These and other Federal, state and local laws may require modifications to our apartment communities, or affect renovations of the communities. Noncompliance with these laws could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. Although we believe that our apartment communities are substantially in compliance with present requirements, we may incur unanticipated expenses to comply with the ADA, the FHAA and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 in connection with the ongoing operation or redevelopment of our apartment communities.Moisture infiltration and resulting mold remediation may be costly. Although we are proactively engaged in managing moisture intrusion and preventing the presence of mold at our apartment communities, it is not unusual for periodic moisture intrusion issues to cause mold in isolated locations within an apartment community.  We have implemented policies, procedures and training, and include a detailed moisture intrusion and mold assessment during acquisition due diligence.  We believe these measures will manage mold exposure at our apartment communities and will minimize the effects that mold may have on our residents.  To date, we have not incurred any material costs or liabilities relating to claims of mold exposure or to abate mold conditions.  We have only limited insurance coverage for property damage claims arising from the presence of mold and for personal injury claims related to mold exposure.  Because the law regarding mold is unsettled and subject to change, we can make no assurance that liabilities resulting from the presence of or exposure to mold will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.We may be subject to litigation associated with partnership transactions that could increase our expenses and prevent completion of beneficial transactions.We have engaged in, and may continue to engage in, the selective acquisition of interests in partnerships controlled by us that own apartment communities.  In some cases, we have acquired the general partner of a partnership and then made an offer to acquire the limited partners’ interests in the partnership. In these transactions, we may be subject to litigation based on claims that we, as the general partner, have breached our fiduciary duty to our limited partners or that the transaction violates the relevant partnership agreement or state law. Although we intend to comply with our fiduciary obligations and the relevant partnership agreements, we may incur costs in connection with the defense or settlement of this type of litigation. In some cases, this type of litigation may adversely affect our desire to proceed with, or our ability to complete, a particular transaction. Any litigation of this type could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.10Table of ContentsGovernment housing regulations may limit the opportunities at some of our apartment communities and failure to comply with resident qualification requirements may result in financial penalties and/or loss of benefits, such as rental revenues paid by government agencies.  Additionally, the government may cease to operate or reduce funding for government housing programs which would result in a loss of benefits.We own equity interests in consolidated and unconsolidated entities that own certain apartment communities that benefit from governmental programs intended to provide housing to people with low or moderate incomes.  These programs, which are usually administered by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, or state housing finance agencies, typically provide one or more of the following: mortgage insurance; favorable financing terms; tax-exempt interest; historic or low-income housing tax-credits; or rental assistance payments to the apartment community owners.  As a condition of the receipt of assistance under these programs, the apartment communities must comply with various requirements, which typically limit rents to pre-approved amounts and limit our choice of residents to those with incomes at or below certain levels. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in financial penalties or loss of benefits.  We are usually required to obtain the approval of HUD in order to acquire or dispose of a significant interest in or manage a HUD-assisted apartment community.  We may not always receive such approval.  Additionally, there is no guarantee that the government will continue to operate these programs or that the programs will be operated in a manner that generates benefits consistent with those received in the past.  Any cessation of or change in the administration of benefits from these government housing programs may result in our loss or reduction in the amount of the benefits we receive under these programs, including rental subsidies.  During 2015, 2014 and 2013, for continuing and discontinued operations, our rental revenues include $73.4 million, $74.6 million and $88.4 million, respectively, of subsidies from government agencies.  Of the 2015 subsidies, approximately 14.5% related to communities benefiting from housing assistance contracts that expired in late 2015 or expire in 2016, which we are in the process of renewing or anticipate renewing, and the remainder related to communities benefiting from housing assistance contracts that expire after 2016 and have a weighted average term of 8.2 years.  Any loss or reduction in the amount of these benefits may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.  Although we are insured for certain risks, the cost of insurance, increased claims activity or losses resulting from casualty events may affect our operating results and financial condition.We are insured for a portion of our consolidated apartment communities’ exposure to casualty losses resulting from fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood and other perils, which insurance is subject to deductibles and self-insurance retention.  We recognize casualty losses or gains based on the net book value of the affected apartment community and the amount of any related insurance proceeds.  In many instances, the actual cost to repair or replace the apartment community may exceed its net book value and any insurance proceeds.  We recognize the uninsured portion of losses as casualty losses in the periods in which they are incurred. In addition, we are self-insured for a portion of our exposure to third-party claims related to our employee health insurance plans, workers’ compensation coverage and general liability exposure. With respect to our exposure to claims of third parties, we establish reserves at levels that reflect our known and estimated losses.  The ultimate cost of losses and the impact of unforeseen events may vary materially from recorded reserves, and variances may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.  We purchase insurance to reduce our exposure to losses and limit our financial losses on large individual risks.  The availability and cost of insurance are determined by market conditions outside our control.  No assurance can be made that we will be able to obtain and maintain insurance at the same levels and on the same terms as we do today.  If we are not able to obtain or maintain insurance in amounts we consider appropriate for our business, or if the cost of obtaining such insurance increases materially, we may have to retain a larger portion of the potential loss associated with our exposures to risks.  Natural disasters and severe weather may affect our operating results and financial condition.Natural disasters such as earthquakes and severe weather such as hurricanes may result in significant damage to our apartment communities.  The extent of our casualty losses and loss in operating income in connection with such events is a function of the severity of the event and the total amount of exposure in the affected area.  When we have geographic concentration of exposures, a single catastrophe (such as an earthquake) or destructive weather event (such as a hurricane) affecting a region may have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  We cannot accurately predict natural disasters or severe weather, or the number and type of such events that will affect us.  As a result, our operating and financial results may vary significantly from one period to the next.  Although we anticipate and plan for losses, there can be no assurance that our financial results will not be adversely affected by our exposure to losses arising from natural disasters or severe weather in the future that exceed our previous experience and assumptions.   We depend on our senior management. Our success depends upon the retention of our senior management, including Terry Considine, our chief executive officer. We have a succession planning and talent development process that is designed to identify potential replacements and develop our team members to provide depth in the organization and a bench of talent on which to draw.  However, there are no assurances that 11Table of Contentswe would be able to find qualified replacements for the individuals who make up our senior management if their services were no longer available. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance for any of our employees. Aimco may fail to qualify as a REIT.If Aimco fails to qualify as a REIT, Aimco will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and will be subject to United States Federal income tax at regular corporate rates, including any applicable AMT. This would substantially reduce our funds available for distribution to our investors. Unless entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Code, Aimco also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to qualify as a REIT.  In addition, Aimco’s failure to qualify as a REIT would place us in default under our Credit Agreement. We believe that Aimco operates, and has since its taxable year ended December 31, 1994 operated, in a manner that enables it to meet the requirements for qualification as a REIT for United States Federal income tax purposes.  Aimco’s continued qualification as a REIT will depend on its satisfaction of certain asset, income, investment, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Aimco’s ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we do not obtain independent appraisals.  Aimco’s compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to manage successfully the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for United States Federal income tax purposes may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT qualification requirements. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or other issuers constitutes a violation of the REIT requirements. Moreover, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause Aimco to fail to qualify as a REIT, or Aimco’s Board of Directors may determine to revoke its REIT status. REIT distribution requirements limit our available cash.As a REIT, Aimco is subject to annual distribution requirements.  As Aimco’s operating partnership, the Aimco Operating Partnership pays distributions intended to satisfy Aimco’s distribution requirements.  This limits the amount of cash available for other business purposes, including amounts to fund our growth.  Aimco generally must distribute annually at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, in order for its distributed earnings not to be subject to United States Federal corporate income tax.  We intend to make distributions to Aimco’s stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Code. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell apartment communities or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement of the Code.Aimco may be subject to federal and state income taxes, in certain circumstances.Even if Aimco qualifies as a REIT, Aimco may be subject to United States Federal income and excise taxes in various situations, such as on its undistributed income. Aimco could also be required to pay a 100% tax on any net income on non-arm's length transactions between Aimco and a taxable REIT subsidiary and on any net income from sales of apartment communities that were held for sale to customers in the ordinary course. In addition, Aimco could be subject to alternative minimum tax, or AMT, on items of tax preference. State and local tax laws may not conform to the United States Federal income tax treatment, and Aimco may be subject to state or local taxation in various state or local jurisdictions, including those in which Aimco transacts business. Any taxes imposed on Aimco would reduce our operating cash flow and net income and could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends and distributions.Recent Tax Legislation Impacts Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Rules Applicable to REITsThe recently enacted Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015, or PATH Act, contains changes to certain aspects of the U.S. federal income tax rules applicable to REITs.  The PATH Act modifies various rules that apply to a REIT’s ownership of and business relationship with its TRS entities and reduces (beginning in 2018) the value of a REIT’s assets that may be in TRS entities from 25% to 20%.  The PATH Act makes permanent the reduction of the period (from ten years to five years) during which a REIT is subject to corporate-level tax on the recognition of built-in gains in assets of an acquired corporation.  The PATH Act also makes multiple changes related to the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act, expands prohibited transaction safe harbors and qualifying hedges, and repeals the preferential dividend rule for publicly-offered REITs.  Lastly, the PATH Act adjusts the way a REIT calculates earnings and profits in certain circumstances to avoid double taxation at the shareholder level, and expands the types of assets and income treated as qualifying for purposes of the REIT requirements.  Investors are urged to consult their tax advisors with respect to these changes and the potential impact on their investment in our common stock and debt securities.12Table of ContentsLimits on ownership of shares in Aimco’s charter may result in the loss of economic and voting rights by purchasers that violate those limits.Aimco’s charter limits ownership of Common Stock by any single stockholder (applying certain “beneficial ownership” rules under the Federal securities laws) to 8.7% (or up to 12.0% upon a waiver from Aimco’s Board of Directors) of outstanding shares of Common Stock, or 15% in the case of certain pension trusts, registered investment companies and Mr. Considine (or up to 18.0% for such pension trusts or registered investment companies upon a waiver from Aimco’s Board of Directors). Aimco’s charter also limits ownership of Aimco’s Common Stock and preferred stock by any single stockholder to 8.7% of the value of the outstanding Common Stock and preferred stock, or 15% in the case of certain pension trusts, registered investment companies and Mr. Considine.  The charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares of Aimco’s capital stock if the purchase would result in Aimco losing its REIT status. This could happen if a transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of Aimco’s shares of capital stock or results in five or fewer persons (applying certain attribution rules of the Code) owning 50% or more of the value of all of Aimco’s shares of capital stock. If anyone acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the Code for REITs:•the transfer will be considered null and void;•we will not reflect the transaction on Aimco’s books;•we may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction;•we may demand repayment of any dividends received by the affected person on those shares;•we may redeem the shares;•the affected person will not have any voting rights for those shares; and•the shares (and all voting and dividend rights of the shares) will be held in trust for the benefit of one or more charitable organizations designated by Aimco.Aimco may purchase the shares of capital stock held in trust at a price equal to the lesser of the price paid by the transferee of the shares or the then current market price. If the trust transfers any of the shares of capital stock, the affected person will receive the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the then current market price. An individual who acquires shares of capital stock that violate the above rules bears the risk that the individual:•may lose control over the power to dispose of such shares;•may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases;•may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases; and•may be required to repay to us any distributions received from us as a result of his or her ownership of the shares.Aimco’s charter may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of Aimco.The 8.7% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of delaying or precluding acquisition of control of Aimco by a third party without the consent of Aimco’s Board of Directors.  Aimco’s charter authorizes its Board of Directors to issue up to 510,587,500 shares of capital stock. As of December 31, 2015, 500,787,260 shares were classified as Common Stock, of which 156,326,416 were outstanding, and 9,800,240 shares were classified as preferred stock, of which 6,391,643 were outstanding.  Under Aimco’s charter, its Board of Directors has the authority to classify and reclassify any of Aimco’s unissued shares of capital stock into shares of capital stock with such preferences, conversion or other rights, voting power restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemptions as the Board of Directors may determine. The authorization and issuance of a new class of capital stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of Aimco, even if a change in control were in Aimco’s stockholders’ best interests.The Maryland General Corporation Law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of Aimco.As a Maryland corporation, Aimco is subject to various Maryland laws that may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire Aimco and increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if an acquisition would be in Aimco’s stockholders’ best interests. The Maryland General Corporation Law, specifically the Maryland Business Combination Act, restricts mergers and other business combination transactions between Aimco and any person who acquires, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership of shares of Aimco’s stock representing 10% or more of the voting power without Aimco’s Board of Directors’ prior approval. Any such business combination transaction could not be completed until five years after the person acquired such voting power, and generally only with the approval of stockholders representing 80% of all votes entitled to be cast and 66-2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast, excluding the interested stockholder, or upon payment of a fair price. The Maryland General Corporation 13Table of ContentsLaw, specifically the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, provides generally that a person who acquires shares of Aimco’s capital stock representing 10% or more of the voting power in electing directors will have no voting rights unless approved by a vote of two-thirds of the shares eligible to vote. Additionally, the Maryland General Corporation Law provides, among other things, that the board of directors has broad discretion in adopting stockholders’ rights plans and has the sole power to fix the record date, time and place for special meetings of the stockholders. To date, Aimco has not adopted a stockholders’ rights plan.  In addition, the Maryland General Corporation Law provides that a corporation that:•has at least three directors who are not officers or employees of the entity or related to an acquiring person; and•has a class of equity securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,may elect in its charter or bylaws or by resolution of the board of directors to be subject to all or part of a special subtitle that provides that:•the corporation will have a staggered board of directors;•any director may be removed only for cause and by the vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors generally, even if a lesser proportion is provided in the charter or bylaws;•the number of directors may only be set by the board of directors, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws;•vacancies may only be filled by the remaining directors, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws; and•the secretary of the corporation may call a special meeting of stockholders at the request of stockholders only on the written request of the stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting, even if the procedure is contrary to the charter or bylaws.To date, Aimco has not made any of the elections described above.Item 1B