 - Risk Factors - Risks Related to our Company - A.M. Best, Moody’s and S&P rate the financial strength of our insurance company subsidiaries, and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing in the insurance industry and cause our sales and earnings to decrease.”The following table summarizes our financial strength ratings and outlook of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015: A.M. Best (1) Moody’s (2) Standard &Poor’s (3)Outlook(4)(5) (6)Company    American Bankers Insurance CompanyA A2 A American Bankers Life Assurance CompanyA-A3 A American Memorial Life Insurance CompanyA-N/A A American Security Insurance CompanyA A2 A Assurant Life of CanadaA-N/A N/ACaribbean American Life Assurance CompanyA-N/A N/ACaribbean American Property Insurance CompanyA N/A N/AJohn Alden Life Insurance CompanyB+Ba1 BB+Reliable LloydsA N/A N/AStandard Guaranty Insurance CompanyA N/A N/ATime Insurance CompanyB+Ba1 BB+UDC Dental CaliforniaA-N/A N/AUnion Security Dental Care New JerseyA-N/A N/AUnion Security Insurance CompanyA-A3 A-Union Security Life Insurance Company of New YorkA-N/A N/AUnited Dental Care of ArizonaA-N/A N/AUnited Dental Care of ColoradoA-N/A N/AUnited Dental Care of MichiganNRN/A N/AUnited Dental Care of MissouriA-N/A N/AUnited Dental Care of New MexicoA-N/A N/AUnited Dental Care of OhioNRN/A N/AUnited Dental Care of TexasA-N/A N/AUnited Dental Care of UtahNRN/A N/AVoyager Indemnity Insurance CompanyA N/A N/A(1)A.M. Best financial strength ratings range from “A++” (superior) to “S” (suspended). Ratings of A and A- fall under the “excellent” category, which is the second highest of ten ratings categories. Ratings of B+ fall under the "good" category, which is the third highest of ten ratings categories. (2)Moody’s insurance financial strength ratings range from “Aaa” (exceptional) to “C” (extremely poor). A numeric modifier may be appended to ratings from “Aa” to “Caa” to indicate relative position within a category, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. Ratings of A2 and A3 are considered “good” and fall within the third highest of the nine ratings categories. Ratings of Ba1 are subject to substantial credit risk and fall within the fifth highest of the nine ratings categories. (3)S&P’s insurer financial strength ratings range from “AAA” (extremely strong) to “R” (under regulatory supervision). A “+” or “-” may be appended to ratings from categories AA to CCC to indicate relative position within a category. Ratings of A and A- (strong) and BB+ (vulnerable) are within the third and fifth highest of the nine ratings categories, respectively.(4)A.M. Best has a stable outlook on all of the ratings of the above entities, except for Union Security Insurance Company and Union Security Life Insurance Company of New York, which are under review with negative implications, and the dental HMO entities, which are under review with positive implications. (5)Moody's has a stable outlook on all of the ratings of the above entities, except for John Alden Life Insurance Company and Time Insurance Company, which have a negative outlook. (6)S&P has a stable outlook on all of the ratings of the above entities, except for Union Security Insurance Company, which is on Creditwatch Positive. 10Enterprise Risk ManagementAs an insurer, we are exposed to a wide variety of financial, operational and other risks, as described in , “Risk Factors.”  U.S. Insurance Regulation We are subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance companies are domiciled. These laws generally require insurance companies within the insurance holding company system to register with the insurance departments of their respective states of domicile and to furnish reports to such insurance departments regarding capital structure, ownership, financial condition, general business operations and intercompany transactions. These laws also require that transactions between affiliated companies be fair and equitable. In addition, certain intercompany transactions, changes of control, certain dividend payments and transfers of assets between the companies within the holding company system are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, state regulatory authorities. Like all U.S. insurance companies, our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions where they do business. In general, these regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of shareholders and other investors. To that end, the laws of the various states and other jurisdictions establish insurance departments with broad powers with respect to such things as: •licensing; •capital, surplus and dividends;  11•underwriting requirements and limitations (including, in some cases, minimum or target loss ratios); •entrance into and exit from states;•introduction, cancellation and termination of certain coverages; •statutory accounting and annual statement disclosure requirements; •product types, policy forms and mandated insurance benefits; •premium rates; •fines, penalties and assessments; •claims practices, including occasional regulatory requirements to pay claims on terms other than those mandated by underlying policy contracts; •transactions between affiliates; •the form and content of disclosures to consumers; •the type, amounts and valuation of investments; •annual tests of solvency and reserve adequacy; •assessments or other surcharges for guaranty funds and the recovery of assessments through premium increases; and  •market conduct and sales practices of insurers and agents.     Dividend Payment Limitations. Our holding company’s assets consist primarily of the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our holding company’s future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries. The ability to pay such dividends and to make such other payments is regulated by the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled. These dividend regulations vary from state to state and by type of insurance provided by the applicable subsidiary, but generally require our insurance subsidiaries to maintain minimum solvency requirements and limit the amount of dividends these subsidiaries can pay to the holding company. For more information, please see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Regulatory Requirements.”  Risk-Based Capital Requirements. In order to enhance the regulation of insurer solvency, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) has established certain risk-based capital standards applicable to life, health and property and casualty insurers. Risk-based capital, which regulators use to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s statutory capital, is calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium, expense, liability and reserve items. Factors are higher for items which in the NAIC’s view have greater underlying risk. The NAIC periodically reviews the risk-based capital formula and changes to the formula could occur in the future.  Investment Regulation. Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations that prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments. These regulations require diversification of insurance company investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain asset categories.  Financial Reporting. Regulators closely monitor the financial condition of licensed insurance companies. Our insurance subsidiaries are required to file periodic financial reports with insurance regulators. Moreover, states regulate the form and content of these statutory financial statements.  Products and Coverage. Insurance regulators have broad authority to regulate many aspects of our products and services. For example, some jurisdictions require insurers to provide coverage to persons who would not be considered eligible insurance risks under standard underwriting criteria, dictating the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such applicants. Additionally, certain non-insurance products and services, such as service contracts, may be regulated by regulatory bodies other than departments of insurance.  Pricing and Premium Rates. Nearly all states have insurance laws requiring insurers to file price schedules and policy forms with the state’s regulatory authority. In many cases, these price schedules and/or policy forms must be approved prior to use, and state insurance departments have the power to disapprove increases or require decreases in the premium rates we charge.  Market Conduct Regulation. Activities of insurers are highly regulated by state insurance laws and regulations, which govern the form and content of disclosure to consumers, advertising, sales practices and complaint handling. State regulatory authorities enforce compliance through periodic market conduct examinations.  Guaranty Associations and Indemnity Funds. Most states require insurance companies to support guaranty associations or indemnity funds, which are established to pay claims on behalf of insolvent insurance companies. These associations may levy assessments on member insurers. In some states member insurers can recover a portion of these assessments through premium tax offsets and/or policyholder surcharges.  12Insurance Regulatory Initiatives. The NAIC, state regulators and professional organizations have considered and are considering various proposals that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Please see . Risk Factors Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors.Risks Related to Our Company Our revenues and profits may decline if we are unable to maintain relationships with significant clients, distributors and other parties important to the success of our business. The success of our business depends largely on our relationships and contractual arrangements with significant clients-including mortgage servicers, lenders, mobile device carriers, retailers, OEMs and others-and with brokers, agents and other parties. Many of these arrangements are exclusive and some rely on preferred provider or similar relationships. If our key clients, intermediaries or other parties terminate important business arrangements with us, or renew contracts on terms less favorable to us, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, each of our Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property segments receives a substantial portion of its revenue from a few clients. As of December 31, 2015 no single client accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenue. However, a reduction in business with or the loss of one or more of our significant clients could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and cash flows of individual segments or of the Company. Examples of important business arrangement include, at Assurant Solutions, relationships with mobile device carriers, retailers and financial and other institutions through which we distribute our products, including an exclusive distribution relationship with SCI relating to the distribution of our preneed insurance policies. In Assurant Specialty Property, we have exclusive and non-exclusive relationships with certain mortgage lenders and manufactured housing lenders and property managers, and in turn we are eligible to insure properties securing loans guaranteed by or sold to government-sponsored entities (“GSEs”) and serviced by the mortgage loan servicers with whom we do business. In our lender-placed insurance business, the change in requirements for eligibility to insure properties securing loans of GSEs-and restrictions imposed by state regulators-could affect our ability to do business with certain mortgage loan servicers or the volume or profitability of such business. In addition, the transfer by mortgage servicer clients of loan portfolios to other carriers or the participation by other carriers in insuring or reinsuring lender-placed insurance risks that we have historically insured could materially reduce our revenues and profits from this business.We are also subject to the risk that clients, distributors and other parties may face financial difficulties, reputational issues or problems with respect to their own products and services or regulatory restrictions that may lead to decreased sales of our products and services. Moreover, if one or more of our clients or distributors consolidate or align themselves with other companies, we may lose significant business, resulting in material decreases in revenues and profits.Significant competitive pressures could affect our results of operations. We compete for customers and distributors with many insurance companies and other financial services companies for business and individual customers, employer and other group customers, agents, brokers and other distribution relationships, and with logistics and mobile device repair companies for the business of cell phone carriers and original equipment manufacturers. Some of our competitors may offer a broader array of products than our subsidiaries or have a greater diversity of distribution resources, better brand recognition, more competitive pricing, lower costs, greater financial strength, more resources, or higher ratings. 15Many of our insurance products, particularly our group benefits policies, are underwritten annually. There is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors, rather than renewing coverage with us. As a result, competition may adversely affect the persistency of our policies, as well as our ability to sell products. In addition, some of our competitors may price their products below ours, putting us at a competitive disadvantage and potentially adversely affecting our revenues and results of operations. Additionally, for Assurant Solutions, our ability to adequately and effectively price our products is affected by, among other things, the evolving nature of consumer needs and preferences and improvements in technology, which could cause us to reduce the price of products and services we offer. For Assurant Specialty Property, our lender-placed homeowners insurance program and certain of our manufactured housing products are not underwritten on an individual policy basis and our contracts with clients require us to issue these policies automatically when a borrower’s insurance coverage is not maintained. Consequently, our inability to adequately monitor and provide for pricing adequacy for these products, subject to regulatory constraints, could potentially adversely affect our results of operations.New competition and technological advancements could also cause the supply of insurance to change, which could affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates and thereby adversely affect our underwriting results. Although there are some impediments facing potential competitors who wish to enter the markets we serve, the entry of new competitors into our markets can occur, affording our customers significant flexibility in moving to other insurance providers. In our lender-placed insurance business, we use a proprietary insurance-tracking administration system linked with the administrative systems of our clients to monitor the clients’ mortgage portfolios to verify the existence of insurance on each mortgaged property and identify those that are uninsured. If, in addition to our current competitors, others in this industry develop a competing system or equivalent administering capabilities, this could reduce the revenues and results of operations in this business.A number of factors outside the Company's control could impair the Company's ability to close the sale of the Assurant Employee Benefits segment and complete the wind-down of the Assurant Health segment.The sale of Assurant Employee Benefits and wind-down of Assurant Health involve a number of challenges, uncertainties and risks, including the risk related to the closing of the Assurant Employee Benefits transaction and regulatory risk related to the wind-down of Assurant Health. Sales of our products and services may decline if we are unable to attract and retain sales representatives or to develop and maintain distribution sources. We distribute many of our insurance products and services through a variety of distribution channels, including independent employee benefits specialists, brokers, managing general agents, life agents, financial institutions, mortgage lenders and servicers, retailers, funeral homes, association groups and other third-party marketing organizations. Our relationships with these distributors are significant both for our revenues and profits. We do not distribute our insurance products and services through captive or affiliated agents. In Assurant Employee Benefits, independent agents and brokers who act as advisors to our customers market and distribute our products. There is intense competition between insurers to form relationships with agents and brokers of demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers for relationships with agents, brokers, and other intermediaries primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services, product features and, more generally, through our ability to meet the needs of their clients, our customers. Independent agents and brokers are typically not exclusively dedicated to us, but instead usually also market the products of our competitors and therefore we face continued competition from our competitors’ products. Moreover, our ability to market our products and services depends on our ability to tailor our channels of distribution to comply with changes in the regulatory environment in which we and such agents and brokers operate. We have our own sales representatives whose distribution process varies by segment. We depend in large part on our sales representatives to develop and maintain client relationships. Our inability to attract and retain effective sales representatives could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.General economic, financial market and political conditions may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Particularly, difficult conditions in financial markets and the global economy may negatively affect the results of all of our business segments. General economic, financial market and political disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Limited availability of credit, deteriorations of the global mortgage and real estate markets, declines in consumer confidence and consumer spending, increases in prices or in the rate of inflation, continuing periods of high unemployment, or disruptive geopolitical events could contribute to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the financial markets, including the market for our stock. These conditions could also affect all of our business segments. Specifically, during periods of economic downturn:16•individuals and businesses may (i) choose not to purchase our insurance products, warranties and other related products and services, (ii) terminate existing policies or contracts or permit them to lapse, and (iii) choose to reduce the amount of coverage they purchase;•clients are more likely to experience financial distress or declare bankruptcy or liquidation which could have an adverse impact on the remittance of premiums from such clients as well as the collection of receivables from such clients for items such as unearned premiums;•disability insurance claims and claims on other specialized insurance products tend to rise;•there is a higher loss ratio on credit card and installment loan insurance due to rising unemployment and disability levels;•there is an increased risk of fraudulent insurance claims;•insureds tend to increase their utilization of health and dental benefits if they anticipate becoming unemployed or losing benefits; and•substantial decreases in loan availability and origination could reduce the demand for credit insurance that we write or debt cancellation or debt deferment products that we administer, and on the placement of hazard insurance under our lender-placed insurance programs.General inflationary pressures may affect the costs of medical and dental care, as well as repair and replacement costs on our real and personal property lines, increasing the costs of paying claims. Inflationary pressures may also affect the costs associated with our preneed insurance policies, particularly those that are guaranteed to grow with the Consumer Price Index (or “CPI”). Conversely, deflationary pressures may affect the pricing of our products. Additionally, continued uncertainty surrounding the U.S. Federal Reserve’s monetary policy could adversely affect the U.S. and global economy.Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, and this may require us to establish additional reserves that may materially affect our results of operations, profitability and capital. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate exposure for claims and claim adjustment expenses with respect to reported claims and incurred but not reported claims (“IBNR”) as of the end of each accounting period. Whether calculated under GAAP, Statutory Accounting Principles (“SAP”) or accounting principles applicable in foreign jurisdictions, reserves are estimates. Reserving is inherently a matter of judgment; our ultimate liabilities could exceed reserves for a variety of reasons, including changes in macroeconomic factors (such as unemployment and interest rates), case development and other factors. From time to time, we also adjust our reserves, and may adjust our reserving methodology, as these factors and our claims experience changes. Reserve development, changes in our reserving methodology and paid losses exceeding corresponding reserves could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Please see “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion & Analysis - Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates - Reserves” for additional detail on our reserves. We may be unable to accurately predict and price for benefits, claims and other costs, which could reduce our profitability. Our profitability could vary depending on our ability to predict and price for benefits, claims and other costs including, but not limited to, medical and dental costs, disability claims and the frequency and severity of property claims. This ability could be affected by factors such as inflation, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in industry practices, changes in legal, social or environmental conditions, new treatments or technologies. Political or economic conditions can also affect the availability of programs (for example, the Social Security disability program) on which our business may rely to accurately predict benefits and claims. The inability to accurately predict and price for benefits, claims and other costs could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Catastrophe losses, including man-made catastrophe losses, could materially reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes, particularly in our homeowners, life and other health insurance businesses. We have experienced, and expect to experience, catastrophe losses that materially reduce our profitability or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, floods, severe winter weather, fires, epidemics and the long-term effects of climate change, or can be man-made catastrophes, including terrorist attacks or accidents such as airplane crashes. While the frequency and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property, the geographic concentration of insured lives, and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from future catastrophes. Catastrophe losses can vary widely and could significantly exceed our expectations. They may cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or materially adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to write new business also could be affected.17Accounting rules do not permit insurers to reserve for such catastrophic events before they occur. In addition, the establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded reserves and such variance may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If the severity of an event were sufficiently high (for example, in the event of an extremely large catastrophe), it could exceed our reinsurance coverage limits and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may also lose premium income due to a large-scale business interruption caused by a catastrophe combined with legislative or regulatory reactions to the event. We use catastrophe modeling tools that help estimate our exposure to such events, but these tools are based on historical data and other assumptions that may provide projections that are materially different from the actual events. Because Assurant Specialty Property’s lender-placed homeowners and lender-placed manufactured housing insurance products are designed to automatically provide property coverage for client portfolios, our concentration in certain catastrophe-prone states like Florida, California, Texas and New York may increase. Furthermore, the withdrawal of other insurers from these or other states may lead to adverse selection and increased use of our products in these areas and may negatively affect our loss experience. The exact impact of the physical effects of climate change is uncertain. It is possible that changes in the global climate may cause long-term increases in the frequency and severity of storms, resulting in higher catastrophe losses, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our group life and health insurance operations could be materially impacted by catastrophes such as a terrorist attack, a natural disaster, a pandemic or an epidemic that causes a widespread increase in mortality or disability rates or that causes an increase in the need for medical care. In addition, with respect to our preneed insurance policies, the average age of policyholders is approximately 73 years. This group is more susceptible to certain epidemics than the overall population, and an epidemic resulting in a higher incidence of mortality could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A.M. Best, Moody’s, and S&P rate the financial strength of our insurance company subsidiaries, and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing in the insurance industry and cause our sales and earnings to decrease. Ratings are important considerations in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. A.M. Best rates most of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries. Moody’s rates six of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries and S&P rates seven of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries. These ratings are subject to periodic review by A.M. Best, Moody’s, and S&P, and we cannot assure that we will be able to retain them. In 2015, Time Insurance Company and John Alden Life Insurance Company experienced multiple rating actions as a result of Assurant’s decision to exit the health insurance market in 2016 and higher than anticipated losses in 2015.  The following actions took place: A.M. Best downgraded the companies from A- to B+, Moody’s downgraded the companies from Baa2 to Ba1 and revised the outlook to negative, and S&P downgraded the companies from BBB to BB+.  A.M. Best also placed the ratings of Union Security Insurance Company and Union Security Life Insurance Company of New York under review with negative implications due to the possible diminished business profile of the entities after the close of the Assurant Employee Benefits sale. Rating agencies may change their methodology or requirements for determining ratings, or they may become more conservative in assigning ratings. Rating agencies or regulators could also increase capital requirements for the Company or its subsidiaries. Any reduction in our ratings could materially adversely affect the demand for our products from intermediaries and consumers and materially adversely affect our results. In addition, any reduction in our financial strength ratings could materially adversely affect our cost of borrowing. As of December 31, 2015, contracts representing approximately 33% of Assurant Solutions’ and 27% of Assurant Specialty Property’s net earned premiums and fee income contain provisions requiring the applicable subsidiaries to maintain minimum A.M. Best financial strength ratings ranging from “A” or better to “B” or better, depending on the contract. Our clients may terminate these contracts or fail to renew them if the subsidiaries’ ratings fall below these minimums. Termination or failure to renew these agreements could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, certain contracts in the DRMS business, representing approximately 5% of Assurant Employee Benefits’ net earned premiums for the year ended December 31, 2015 contain provisions requiring the applicable subsidiaries to maintain minimum A.M. Best financial strength ratings of “A-” or better. DRMS clients may terminate the agreements and, in some instances, recapture in-force business if the ratings of applicable subsidiaries fall below “A-”. We face risks associated with our international operations. Our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that we may not face in our domestic operations. For example, we may face the risk of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; burdens and costs 18of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; political or economic instability in countries in which we conduct business, including possible terrorist acts; inflation and foreign exchange rate fluctuations; diminished ability to enforce our contractual rights; differences in cultural environments and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including changes in regulatory treatment of certain products; exposure to local economic conditions and restrictions on the repatriation of non-U.S. investment and earnings; and potentially substantial tax liabilities if we repatriate the cash generated by our international operations back to the U.S. If our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in that country. As we continue to expand in select worldwide markets, our business becomes increasingly exposed to these risks identified above where certain countries have recently experienced economic instability. In addition, as we engage with international clients, we have made certain up-front commission payments and similar cash outlays, which we may not recover if the business does not materialize as we expect. These up-front payments are typically supported by various protections, such as letters of guarantee, but we may not recover our initial outlays and other amounts owed to us fully or timely. As our international business grows, we rely increasingly on fronting carriers or intermediaries in certain other countries to maintain their licenses and product approvals, satisfy local regulatory requirements and continue in business. For information on the significant international regulations that apply to our Company, please see Item 1, “Business - Regulation - International Regulation.” Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. While most of our costs and revenues are in U.S. dollars, some are in other currencies. Because our financial results in certain countries are translated from local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation, the results of our operations may be affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations. To a large extent, we do not currently hedge foreign currency risk. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, net revenue, operating expenses, and net income or loss. Similarly, our net assets, net revenue, operating expenses, and net income or loss will decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens against local currency. For example, Argentina, a country in which Assurant Solutions operates, is currently undergoing a currency crisis. These fluctuations in currency exchange rates may result in gains or losses that materially and adversely affect our results of operations.An impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and book value. Goodwill represented $833,512 of our $30,043,128 in total assets as of December 31, 2015. We review our goodwill annually in the fourth quarter for impairment or more frequently if circumstances indicating that the asset may be impaired exist. Such circumstances could include a sustained significant decline in our share price, a decline in our actual or expected future cash flows or income, a significant adverse change in the business climate, or slower growth rates, among others. Circumstances such as those mentioned above could trigger an impairment of some or all of the remaining goodwill on our balance sheet, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and book value per share. For more information on our annual goodwill impairment testing and the goodwill of our segments, please see “Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis - Critical Factors Affecting Results - Value and Recoverability of Goodwill.” In addition, other intangible assets collectively represented $277,163 of our total assets as of December 31, 2015, and an impairment of these other intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and book value per share.  Unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets may significantly and adversely affect our access to capital and our ability to pay our debts or expenses. In previous years, the global capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption. In many cases, companies’ ability to raise money was severely restricted. Although conditions in the capital and credit markets have improved significantly, they could again deteriorate. Our ability to borrow or raise money is important if our operating cash flow is insufficient to pay our expenses, meet capital requirements, repay debt, pay dividends on our common stock or make investments. The principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, fee income, cash flow from our investment portfolio and liquid assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short-and long-term instruments. If our access to capital markets is restricted, our cost of capital could increase, thus decreasing our profitability and reducing our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially and adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets. The value of our investments could decline, affecting our profitability and financial strength. Investment returns are an important part of our profitability. Significant fluctuations in the fixed maturity market could impair our profitability, financial condition and cash flows. Our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, 19as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. In addition, certain factors affecting our business, such as volatility of claims experience, could force us to liquidate securities prior to maturity, causing us to incur capital losses. See “Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Interest Rate Risk.” Market conditions, changes in interest rates, and prolonged periods of low interest rates may materially affect our results. Recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. A prolonged period during which interest rates remain at historically low levels may result in lower-than-expected net investment income and larger required reserves. In addition, certain statutory capital requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates and a prolonged period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold. Changes in interest rates may materially adversely affect the performance of some of our investments. Interest rate volatility may increase or reduce unrealized gains or unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Fixed maturity and short-term investments represented 82% of the fair value of our total investments as of December 31, 2015. The fair market value of the fixed maturity securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. Because all of our fixed maturity securities are classified as available for sale, changes in the market value of these securities are reflected in our consolidated balance sheets. Their fair market value generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income from fixed maturity investments increases or decreases directly with interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An increase in interest rates will also decrease the net unrealized gains in our current investment portfolio. We employ asset/liability management strategies to manage the adverse effects of interest rate volatility and the likelihood that cash flows are unavailable to pay claims as they become due. Our asset/liability management strategies do not completely eliminate the adverse effects of interest rate volatility, and significant fluctuations in the level of interest rates may require us to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to pay claims and policyholder benefits. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our preneed insurance policies are generally whole life insurance policies with increasing death benefits. In extended periods of declining interest rates or rising inflation, there may be compression in the spread between the death benefit growth rates on these policies and the investment income that we can earn, resulting in a negative spread. As a result, declining interest rates or high inflation rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our overall financial condition. See “Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Inflation Risk” for additional information. Assurant Employee Benefits calculates reserves for long-term disability and life waiver of premium claims using net present value calculations based on interest rates at the time reserves are established and expectations regarding future interest rates. Waiver of premium refers to a provision in a life insurance policy pursuant to which an insured with a disability that lasts for a specified period no longer has to pay premiums for the duration of the disability or for a stated period, during which time the life insurance coverage continues. If interest rates decline, reserves for open and new claims in Assurant Employee Benefits may need to be calculated using lower discount rates, thereby increasing the net present value of those claims and the required reserves. Depending on the magnitude of the decline, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, investment income may be lower than that assumed in setting premium rates. We may be unable to grow our business as we would like if we cannot find suitable acquisition candidates at attractive prices or integrate them effectively. We expect acquisitions and new ventures to play a significant role in the growth of some of our businesses. We may not, however, be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or new venture opportunities or to finance or complete such transactions on acceptable terms. Additionally, the integration of acquired businesses may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish such integration smoothly or successfully. Acquired businesses and new ventures may not provide us with the benefits that we anticipate. Acquisitions entail a number of risks including, among other things, inaccurate assessment of liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies; synergies and cost savings; difficulties in integrating systems and personnel; failure to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; an increase in our indebtedness; and a limitation in our ability to access additional capital when needed. Our failure to adequately address these acquisition risks could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio is subject to various risks that may result in realized investment losses. 20We are subject to credit risk in our investment portfolio, primarily from our investments in corporate bonds, preferred stocks, leveraged loans, municipal bonds, and commercial mortgages. Defaults by third parties in the payment or performance of their obligations could reduce our investment income and realized investment gains or result in the continued recognition of investment losses. The value of our investments may be materially adversely affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades in the corporate bonds included in the portfolio and by other factors that may result in the continued recognition of other-than-temporary impairments. Each of these events may cause us to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio. Further, the value of any particular fixed maturity security is subject to impairment based on the creditworthiness of a given issuer. As of December 31, 2015, fixed maturity securities represented 78% of the fair value of our total invested assets. Our fixed maturity portfolio also includes below investment grade securities (rated “BB” or lower by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations). These investments comprise approximately 5% of the fair value of our total investments as of December 31, 2015 and generally provide higher expected returns but present greater risk and can be less liquid than investment grade securities. A significant increase in defaults and impairments on our fixed maturity investment portfolio could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Credit Risk” for additional information on the composition of our fixed maturity investment portfolio. We currently invest in a small amount of equity securities (approximately 4% of the fair value of our total investments as of December 31, 2015). However, we have had higher percentages in the past and may make more such investments in the future. Investments in equity securities generally provide higher expected total returns but present greater risk to preservation of capital than our fixed maturity investments. If treasury rates or credit spreads were to increase, the Company may have additional realized and unrealized investment losses and increases in other-than-temporary impairments. The determination that a security has incurred an other-than-temporary decline in value requires the judgment of management. Inherently, there are risks and uncertainties involved in making these judgments. Changes in facts, circumstances, or critical assumptions could cause management to conclude that further impairments have occurred. This could lead to additional losses on investments. For further details on net investment losses and other-than-temporary-impairments, please see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. Derivative instruments generally present greater risk than fixed maturity investments or equity investments because of their greater sensitivity to market fluctuations. Since August 1, 2003, we have been using derivative instruments to manage the exposure to inflation risk created by our preneed insurance policies that are tied to the CPI. The protection provided by these derivative instruments begins at higher levels of inflation. However, exposure can still exist due to potential differences in the amount of business and the notional amount of the protection. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our commercial mortgage loans and real estate investments subject us to liquidity risk. Our commercial mortgage loans on real estate investments (which represented approximately 9% of the fair value of our total investments as of December 31, 2015) are relatively illiquid. If we require extremely large amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments at attractive prices and in a timely manner.The risk parameters of our investment portfolio may not assume an appropriate level of risk, thereby reducing our profitability and diminishing our ability to compete and grow. In pricing our products and services, we incorporate assumptions regarding returns on our investments. Accordingly, our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each of our operating segments. Market conditions may not allow us to invest in assets with sufficiently high returns to meet our pricing assumptions and profit targets over the long term. If, in response, we choose to increase our product prices, our ability to compete and grow may be diminished.Environmental liability exposure may result from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments. Liability under environmental protection laws resulting from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments may weaken our financial strength and reduce our profitability. For more information, please see Item 1, “Business - Regulation - Environmental Regulation.” Unanticipated changes in tax provisions, changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could materially and adversely affect our results. In accordance with applicable income tax guidance, the Company must determine whether its ability to realize the value of its deferred tax asset is “more likely than not.” Under the income tax guidance, a deferred tax asset should be reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred 21tax asset will not be realized. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income of the same character during the carryback or carryforward periods. In determining the appropriate valuation allowance, management made certain judgments relating to recoverability of deferred tax assets, use of tax loss and tax credit carryforwards, levels of expected future taxable income and available tax planning strategies. The assumptions in making these judgments are updated periodically on the basis of current business conditions affecting the Company and overall economic conditions. These management judgments are therefore subject to change due to factors that include, but are not limited to, changes in our ability to realize sufficient taxable income of the same character in the same jurisdiction or in our ability to execute other tax planning strategies. Management will continue to assess and determine the need for, and the amount of, the valuation allowance in subsequent periods. Any change in the valuation allowance could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in tax laws could increase our corporate taxes or reduce our deferred tax assets. Certain proposed changes could have the effect of increasing our effective tax rate by reducing deductions or increasing income inclusions. Conversely, other changes, such as lowering the corporate tax rate, could reduce the value of our deferred tax assets. Failure to protect our clients’ confidential information and privacy could harm our reputation, cause us to lose customers, reduce our profitability and subject us to fines, litigation and penalties, and the costs of compliance with privacy and security laws could adversely affect our business. Our businesses are subject to a variety of privacy regulations and confidentiality obligations. If we do not comply with state and federal privacy and security laws and regulations, or contractual provisions, requiring us to protect confidential information and provide notice to individuals whose information is improperly disclosed, we could experience adverse consequences, including loss of customers and related revenue, regulatory problems (including fines and penalties), harm to our reputation and civil litigation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As have other entities in the insurance industry, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial costs in complying with the requirements of applicable privacy and security laws. For more information on the privacy and security laws that apply to us, please see Item 1, “Business - Regulation.”The failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent upon our ability to maintain the effectiveness of existing technology systems, enhance technology to support the Company’s business in an efficient and cost-effective manner, and keep current with technological advances, evolving industry and regulatory standards and customer needs. In addition, our ability to keep our systems integrated with those of our clients is critical to the success of our business. If we do not effectively maintain our systems and update them to address technological advancements, our relationships and ability to do business with our clients may be adversely affected. We could also experience other adverse consequences, including unfavorable underwriting and reserving decisions, internal control deficiencies and security breaches resulting in loss of data. System development projects may be more costly or time-consuming than anticipated and may not deliver the expected benefits upon completion. Failure to successfully manage outsourcing activities could adversely affect our business. As we continue to improve operating efficiencies across the business, we have outsourced and may outsource selected functions to third parties, including independent contractors. For example, we outsource certain key functions in our Mortgage Solutions businesses to certain independent contractors who we believe offer us expertise in this area, as well as scalability and cost effective services. We take steps to monitor and regulate the performance of these independent third parties to whom the Company has outsourced these functions. If these third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to the Company as a result of their performance, changes in their operations, financial condition or other matters beyond our control, the Company’s operations, information, service standards, reputation and data could be compromised. In particular, if we are unable to attract and retain the necessary quality and number of contracts with enough independent contractors, or if changes in law or judicial decisions require such independent contractors to be classified as employees, our Mortgage Solutions businesses could be significantly adversely affected.In addition, to the extent the Company outsources selected services or functions to third parties outside the U.S., the Company is exposed to the risks that accompany operations in a foreign jurisdiction, including international economic and political conditions, foreign laws and fluctuations in currency values and, potentially, increased risk of data breaches. For more information on the risks associated with outsourcing to international third parties, please see Item 1A, “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Company - We face risks associated with our international operations.” If third party providers do not perform as anticipated, we may not fully realize the anticipated economic and other benefits of this outsourcing, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.System security risks, data protection breaches and cyber-attacks could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 22Our information technology systems are vulnerable to threats from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber-attack and other similar disruptions. Although we have network security measures in place, experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network and misappropriate or compromise confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. As an insurer, we receive and are required to protect confidential information from customers, vendors and other third parties that may include personal health or financial information. If any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information or that of others, it could damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers and clients, lead to claims against the Company, result in regulatory action and harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to mitigate the damage caused by any security breach or to protect against future damage.Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various operating segments. Although the reinsurer is liable to us for claims properly ceded under the reinsurance arrangements, we remain liable to the insured as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Ceded reinsurance arrangements therefore do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. We are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. The inability to collect amounts due from reinsurers could materially adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition.Reinsurance for certain types of catastrophes could become unavailable or prohibitively expensive for some of our businesses. In such a situation, we might also be adversely affected by state regulations that prohibit us from excluding catastrophe exposures or from withdrawing from or increasing premium rates in catastrophe-prone areas. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We may not be able to maintain our current reinsurance facilities and, even where highly desirable or necessary, we may not be able to obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. Inability to obtain reinsurance at favorable rates or at all could cause us to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, to take more risk, or to incur higher costs. These developments could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Through reinsurance, we have sold businesses that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the reinsurers become insolvent. In the past, we have sold, and in the future we may sell, businesses through reinsurance ceded to third parties. For example, in 2001 we sold the insurance operations of our Fortis Financial Group (“FFG”) division to The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (“The Hartford”) and in 2000 we sold our Long Term Care (“LTC”) division to John Hancock Life Insurance Company (“John Hancock”), now a subsidiary of Manulife Financial Corporation. Most of the assets backing reserves coinsured under these sales are held in trusts or separate accounts. However, if the reinsurers became insolvent, we would be exposed to the risk that the assets in the trusts and/or the separate accounts would be insufficient to support the liabilities that would revert to us. In January 2013, The Hartford sold its Individual Life Operations to Prudential Financial, Inc. (“Prudential”). Included in this transaction are the individual life policies remaining in force that were originally transferred to The Hartford as part of the sale of FFG. The assets backing the reserves coinsured from The Hartford to Prudential continue to be held in trusts or separate accounts, and we are subject to the risk that the trust and/or separate account assets are insufficient to support the liabilities that would revert to us. Although The Hartford remains responsible for the sufficiency of the assets backing the reserves, we face risks related to any administrative system changes Prudential implements in administering the business. The A.M. Best ratings of The Hartford and John Hancock are currently A- and A+, respectively. A.M. Best currently maintains a stable outlook on both The Hartford’s and John Hancock’s financial strength ratings. We also face the risk of again becoming responsible for administering these businesses in the event of reinsurer insolvency. We do not currently have the administrative systems and capabilities to process these businesses. Accordingly, we would need to obtain those capabilities in the event of an insolvency of one or more of the reinsurers. We might be forced to obtain such capabilities on unfavorable terms with a resulting material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, third parties to whom we have sold businesses in the past may in turn sell these businesses to other third parties, and we could face risks related to the new administrative systems and capabilities of these third parties in administering these businesses.For more information on these arrangements, including the reinsurance recoverables and risk mitigation mechanisms used, please see “Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks - Credit Risk.”23Due to the structure of our commission program, we are exposed to risks related to the creditworthiness and reporting systems of some of our agents, third party administrations and clients in Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property. We are subject to the credit risk of some of the clients and agents with which we contract in Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property. For example, we advance agents' commissions as part of our preneed insurance product offerings. These advances are a percentage of the total face amount of coverage. There is a one-year payback provision against the agency if death or lapse occurs within the first policy year. If SCI, which receives the largest shares of such agent commissions, were unable to fulfill its payback obligations, this could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. In addition, some of our clients, third party administrators and agents collect and report premiums or pay claims on our behalf. These parties' failure to remit all premiums collected or to pay claims on our behalf on  a timely and accurate basis could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  The inability of our subsidiaries to pay sufficient dividends to the holding company could prevent us from meeting our obligations and paying future stockholder dividends. As a holding company whose principal assets are the capital stock of our subsidiaries, Assurant, Inc. relies primarily on dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations, to repurchase shares, to acquire new businesses and to pay dividends to stockholders and corporate expenses. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and to make such other payments depends on their statutory surplus, future statutory earnings, rating agency requirements and regulatory restrictions. Except to the extent that Assurant, Inc. is a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, claims of the subsidiaries’ creditors, including policyholders, have priority over creditors’ claims with respect to the assets and earnings of the subsidiaries. If any of our subsidiaries should become insolvent, liquidate or otherwise reorganize, our creditors and stockholders will have no right to proceed against their assets or to cause the liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up of the subsidiary under applicable liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up laws. The applicable insurance laws of the jurisdiction where each of our insurance subsidiaries is domiciled would govern any proceedings relating to that subsidiary, and the insurance authority of that jurisdiction would act as a liquidator or rehabilitator for the subsidiary. Both creditors and policyholders of the subsidiary would be entitled to payment in full from the subsidiary’s assets before Assurant, Inc., as a stockholder, would be entitled to receive any distribution from the subsidiary. The payment of dividends by any of our regulated domestic insurance company subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts (i.e., extraordinary dividends) must be approved by the subsidiary’s domiciliary state department of insurance. Ordinary dividends, for which no regulatory approval is generally required, are limited to amounts determined by a formula, which varies by state. The formula for the majority of the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled is based on the prior year’s statutory net income or 10% of the statutory surplus as of the end of the prior year. Some states limit ordinary dividends to the greater of these two amounts, others limit them to the lesser of these two amounts and some states exclude prior year realized capital gains from prior year net income in determining ordinary dividend capacity. Some states have an additional stipulation that dividends may only be paid out of earned surplus. If insurance regulators determine that payment of an ordinary dividend or any other payments by our insurance subsidiaries to us (such as payments under a tax sharing agreement or payments for employee or other services) would be adverse to policyholders or creditors, they may block such payments that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval. Future regulatory actions could further restrict the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends. For more information on the maximum amount our subsidiaries could pay us in 2016 without regulatory approval, see “Item 5 - Market For Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Dividend Policy.” Assurant, Inc.’s credit facilities also contain limitations on our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders if we are in default or such dividend payments would cause us to be in default of our obligations under the credit facilities. Any additional material restrictions on the ability of insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect Assurant, Inc.’s ability to pay any dividends on our common stock and/or service our debt and pay our other corporate expenses.The success of our business strategy depends on the continuing service of key executives and the members of our senior management team, and any failure to adequately provide for the succession of senior management and other key executives could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for and successfully carry out the succession of our senior management and other key executives.Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to extensive laws and regulations, which increase our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business. 24Our insurance and other subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business. Such regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders or other customers. To that end, the laws of the various states and other jurisdictions establish insurance departments and other regulatory bodies with broad powers over, among other things: licensing and authorizing the transaction of business; capital, surplus and dividends; underwriting limitations; companies’ ability to enter and exit markets; statutory accounting and other disclosure requirements; policy forms; coverage; companies’ ability to provide, terminate or cancel certain coverages; premium rates, including regulatory ability to disapprove or reduce the premium rates companies may charge; trade and claims practices; certain transactions between affiliates; content of disclosures to consumers; type, amount and valuation of investments; assessments or other surcharges for guaranty funds and companies’ ability to recover assessments through premium increases; and market conduct and sales practices. For a discussion of various laws and regulations affecting our business, please see Item 1, “Business - Regulation.” If regulatory requirements impede our ability to conduct certain operations, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant regulators’ interpretation of these laws and regulations. In such events, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude us from operating, limit some or all of our activities, or fine us. Such actions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions.From time to time, we may be subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions relating to our current and past business operations, including, but not limited to:•industry-wide investigations regarding business practices including, but not limited to, the use of the marketing of certain types of insurance policies or certificates of insurance; •actions by regulatory authorities that may restrict our ability to increase or maintain our premium rates, require us to reduce premium rates, imposes fines or penalties and result in other expenses;•market conduct examinations, for which we are required to pay the expenses of the regulator as well as our own expenses, and which may result in fines, penalties, or other adverse consequences;•disputes regarding our lender-placed insurance products including those relating to rates, agent compensation, consumer disclosure, continuous coverage requirements, loan tracking services and other services that we provide to mortgage servicers;•disputes over coverage or claims adjudication;•disputes over our treatment of claims, in which states or insureds may allege that we failed to make required payments or to meet prescribed deadlines for adjudicating claims;•disputes regarding sales practices, disclosures, premium refunds, licensing, regulatory compliance, underwriting and compensation arrangements;•disputes with agents, brokers or network providers over compensation and termination of contracts and related claims;•disputes alleging bundling of credit insurance and warranty products with other products provided by financial institutions;•disputes with tax and insurance authorities regarding our tax liabilities;•disputes relating to customers’ claims that the customer was not aware of the full cost or existence of the insurance or limitations on insurance coverage.Further, actions by certain regulators may cause changes to the structure of the lender-placed insurance industry, including the arrangements under which we issue insurance and track coverage on mortgaged properties. These changes could materially adversely affect the results of operations of Assurant Specialty Property and the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. See Item 1, “Business - Regulation” and Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis - Results of Operations - Assurant Specialty Property - Regulatory Matters.”  In addition, the Company is involved in a variety of litigation relating to its current and past business operations and may from time to time become involved in other such actions. In particular, the Company is a defendant in class actions in a number of jurisdictions regarding its lender-placed insurance programs. These cases allege a variety of claims under a number of legal theories. The plaintiffs seek premium refunds and other relief. The Company continues to defend itself vigorously in these class actions and, as appropriate, to enter into settlements. 25We participate in settlements on terms that we consider reasonable in light of the strength of our defenses; however, the results of any pending or future litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently unpredictable and involve significant uncertainty. Unfavorable outcomes in litigation or regulatory proceedings, or significant problems in our relationships with regulators, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, our reputation, our ratings, and our ability to continue to do business. They could also expose us to further investigations or litigation. In addition, certain of our clients in the mortgage and credit card and banking industries are the subject of various regulatory investigations and litigation regarding mortgage lending practices, credit insurance, debt-deferment and debt cancellation products, and the sale of ancillary products, which could indirectly affect our businesses.Our business is subject to risks related to reductions in the insurance premium rates we charge.The premiums we charge are subject to review by regulators. If they consider our loss ratios to be too low, they could require us to reduce our rates. Significant rate reductions could materially reduce our profitability. Lender-placed insurance products accounted for approximately 73% and 71% of Assurant Specialty Property’s net earned premiums for the twelve months ended December 2015 and 2014, respectively. The approximate corresponding contributions to segment net income in these periods were 78% and 73%. The portion of total segment net income attributable to lender-placed products may vary substantially over time depending on the frequency, severity and location of catastrophic losses, the cost of catastrophe reinsurance and reinstatement coverage, the variability of claim processing costs and client acquisition costs, and other factors. In addition, we expect placement rates for these products to decline.The Company files rates with the state departments of insurance in the ordinary course of business. In addition to this routine correspondence, from time to time the Company engages in discussions and proceedings with certain state regulators regarding our lender-placed insurance business. The results of such reviews may vary. As previously disclosed, the Company has reached agreements with the New York Department of Financial Services (the “NYDFS”), the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation (the “FOIR”) and the California Department of Insurance regarding the Company’s lender-placed insurance business in those states. It is possible that other state departments of insurance and regulatory authorities may choose to initiate or continue to review the appropriateness of the Company’s premium rates for its lender-placed insurance products. If, in the aggregate, further reviews by state departments of insurance lead to significant decreases in premium rates for the Company’s lender-placed insurance products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  Changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth.Legislation or other regulatory reform that increases the regulatory requirements imposed on us or that changes the way we are able to do business may significantly harm our business or results of operations in the future. If we were unable for any reason to comply with these requirements, it could result in substantial costs to us and may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.In addition, new interpretations of existing laws, or new judicial decisions affecting the insurance industry, could adversely affect our business.Legislative or regulatory changes that could significantly harm our subsidiaries and us include, but are not limited to:•imposed reductions on premium levels, limitations on the ability to raise premiums on existing policies, or new minimum loss ratios;•increases in minimum capital, reserves and other financial viability requirements;•enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future financial crises or to otherwise ensure the stability of institutions;•new licensing requirements;•restrictions on the ability to offer certain types of insurance products or service contracts;•prohibitions or limitations on provider financial incentives and provider risk-sharing arrangements;•more stringent standards of review for claims denials or coverage determinations;•new benefit mandates;•increased regulation relating to lender-placed insurance;•limitations on the ability to manage health care and utilization due to direct access laws that allow insureds to seek services directly from specialty medical providers without referral by a primary care provider;•new or enhanced regulatory requirements that require insurers to pay claims on terms other than those mandated by underlying policy contracts; and•restriction of solicitation of insurance consumers by funeral board laws for prefunded funeral insurance coverage.26In recent years, significant attention has been focused on the procedures that life insurers follow to identify unreported death claims. In November 2011, the National Conference of Insurance Legislators (“NCOIL”) proposed a model rule that would govern unclaimed property policies for insurers and mandate the use of the U.S. Social Security Administration’s Death Master File (the “Death Master File”) to identify deceased policyholders and beneficiaries. Certain state insurance regulators have also focused on this issue. For example, the NYDFS issued a letter requiring life insurers doing business in New York to use data from the Death Master File to search proactively for deceased policyholders and to pay claims without the receipt of a valid claim by or on behalf of a beneficiary. The Company evaluated the impact of the NCOIL model rule and established reserves for additional claim liabilities in certain of its businesses. It is possible that existing reserves may be inadequate and need to be increased and/or that the Company may be required to establish reserves for businesses the Company does not currently believe are subject to the NCOIL model rule or any similar regulatory requirement. In addition, it is possible that these regulators or regulators in other states may adopt regulations similar to the NCOIL model rule or to the requirements imposed by the NYDFS.In addition, regulators in certain states have hired third party auditors to audit the unclaimed property records of insurance companies operating in those states. Among other companies, the Company is currently subject to these audits in a number of states and has been responding to information requests from these auditors.Proposals are currently pending to amend state insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of insurance holding company regulation. These include the NAIC “Solvency Modernization Initiative,” which focuses on capital requirements, and the Solvency II Directive, which became effective in January 2016. The Solvency II Directive reforms the insurance industry’s solvency framework, including, among other items, minimum capital and solvency requirements.Various state and federal regulatory authorities have taken actions with respect to our lender-placed insurance business. On January 16, 2015, at the request of the Indiana Department of Insurance, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the “NAIC”) authorized an industry-wide multistate targeted market conduct examination focusing on lender placed insurance. Several insurance companies, including American Security Insurance Company, are subject to the examination.  At present, 43 jurisdictions are participating.  During the course of 2015, the Company has cooperated in responding to requests for information and documents and has engaged in various communications with the examiners.  The examination continues and no final report has been issued.We cannot predict the full effect of these or any other regulatory initiatives on the Company at this time, but they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Reform of the health insurance industry could materially reduce the profitability of certain of our businesses or render them unprofitable.Although the Assurant Health business is in run-off, some provisions of the Affordable Care Act continue to apply to us. As a result, although Assurant Health has made, and continues to make, significant changes to its operations and products to adapt to the new environment consistent with the wind-down, this business continues to experience losses, which we have been and may continue to be unable to limit to the extent we would like through the completion of the wind-down.  In addition, the results of our health insurance operations are heavily dependent on the ongoing implementation of the reinsurance, risk adjustment and risk corridors programs under the Affordable Care Act. These programs may not be effective in appropriately mitigating any adverse effects of the Affordable Care Act on the Company. Furthermore, the reinsurance and risk corridor programs may not be adequately funded by the United States Congress from time to time. Consequently, it may be difficult, in some circumstances, to capture, determine and deliver amounts payable to or receivable by us under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.The Affordable Care Act and related reforms have made and will continue to make sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. health care system. For more information on the Affordable Care Act and its impact on our Assurant Health and Assurant Employee Benefits segments, please see Item 1, “Business - Regulation - Federal Regulation - Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.”Among other requirements, the Affordable Care Act requires that Assurant Health rebate to consumers the difference between its actual loss ratios and required minimum medical loss ratios (by state and legal entity) for certain products. Please see “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion & Analysis - Critical Accounting Estimates - Health Insurance Premium Rebate Liability” for more information about the minimum medical loss ratio and the Company’s rebate estimate calculations. In addition, the Affordable Care Act imposes limitations on the deductibility of compensation and certain other payments.In addition, some uncertainty remains surrounding the mechanics of inclusion of pediatric dental coverage in the package of essential health benefits; unfavorable resolution of this uncertainty could decrease revenues in our Assurant Employee Benefits business.The insurance and related businesses in which we operate may be subject to periodic negative publicity, which may negatively affect our financial results. 27We communicate with and distribute our products and services ultimately to individual consumers. There may be a perception that some of these purchasers may be unsophisticated and in need of consumer protection. Accordingly, from time to time, consumer advocacy groups or the media may focus attention on our products and services, thereby subjecting us to negative publicity. We may also be negatively affected if another company in one of our industries or in a related industry engages in practices resulting in increased public attention to our businesses. Negative publicity may also result from judicial inquiries, unfavorable outcomes in lawsuits, or regulatory or governmental action with respect to our products, services and industry commercial practices. Negative publicity may cause increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation or enforcement action by civil and criminal authorities. Additionally, negative publicity may increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, constraining our ability to price our products appropriately for the risks we are assuming, requiring us to change the products and services we offer, or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. The insurance industry can be cyclical, which may affect our results. Certain lines of insurance that we write can be cyclical. Although no two cycles are the same, insurance industry cycles have typically lasted for periods ranging from two to ten years. In addition, the upheaval in the global economy in recent years has been much more widespread and has affected all the businesses in which we operate. We expect to see continued cyclicality in some or all of our businesses in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Given the recent economic climate, our stock may be subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. The price of our common stock could fluctuate or decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. In recent years, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility. Company-specific issues and market developments generally in the insurance industry and in the regulatory environment may have caused this volatility. Our stock price could materially fluctuate or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including but not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; changes in our financial strength ratings; limitations on premium levels or the ability to maintain or raise premiums on existing policies; regulatory developments and negative publicity relating to us or our competitors. In addition, broad market and industry fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.  Applicable laws, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and contract provisions may discourage takeovers and business combinations that some stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. For example, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may limit the ability of an “interested stockholder” to engage in business combinations with us. An interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our directors, facilitating director enhancement that may delay, defer or prevent a change in control. Such provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. Our certificate of incorporation or by-laws also contain provisions that permit our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, prohibit stockholders from filling vacancies on our Board of Directors, prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders and from taking action by written consent, and impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholder meetings. Additionally, applicable state insurance laws may require prior approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer. State statutes generally provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist when any person directly or indirectly owns, controls, has voting power over, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the domestic insurer’s voting securities. However, the State of Florida, in which some of our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, sets this threshold at 5%. Because a person acquiring 5% or more of our common stock would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of our Florida subsidiaries, the insurance change of control laws of Florida would apply to such transaction and at 10% the laws of many other states would likely apply to such a transaction. Prior to granting such approval, a state insurance commissioner will typically consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicant’s board of directors and 28executive officers, the applicant’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. We may also, under some circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repay our outstanding indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and other agreements. We or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repay such indebtedness in those circumstances, which may constitute an event of default resulting in acceleration of indebtedness and potential cross-default under other agreements. The threat of this could have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a change of control, including transactions in which our stockholders would receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-current market prices, or which they otherwise may deem to be in their best interests.  29Item 1B