Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The following are certain of the important factors that could
    cause our actual operating results to differ materially from
    those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made
    in this annual report on
    Form 10-K
    or presented elsewhere by management from time to time.



    
    7



Table of Contents





    The
    markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may
    be unable to compete successfully against new entrants with
    innovative approaches and established companies with greater
    resources.


 


    We compete in markets that are intensely competitive, highly
    fragmented and rapidly changing. We have experienced and expect
    to continue to experience increased competition. Many of our
    current competitors, as well as a number of our potential
    competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name
    recognition, broader customer relationships and industry
    alliances and substantially greater financial, technical and
    marketing resources than we do. Other competitors may attract
    customers by offering less-sophisticated versions of services
    than we provide at lower prices than those we charge. Our
    competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to
    new or emerging technologies and changes in customer
    requirements. Some of our current or potential competitors may
    bundle their offerings with other services, software or hardware
    in a manner that may discourage website owners from purchasing
    any service we offer. Increased competition could result in
    price and revenue reductions, loss of customers and loss of
    market share, which could materially and adversely affect our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 


    In addition, potential customers may decide to purchase or
    develop their own hardware, software and other technology
    solutions rather than rely on an external provider like Akamai.
    As a result, our competitors include hardware manufacturers,
    software companies and other entities that offer
    Internet-related solutions that are not service-based
    competitors. It is an important component of our growth strategy
    to educate enterprises and government agencies about our
    services and convince them to entrust their content and
    applications to an external service provider, and Akamai in
    particular. If we are unsuccessful in such efforts, our
    business, financial condition and results of operations could
    suffer.


 



    If we
    are unable to sell our services at acceptable prices relative to
    our costs, our business and financial results are likely to
    suffer.


 


    Prices we have been charging for some of our services have
    declined in recent years. We expect that this decline may
    continue in the future as a result of, among other things,
    existing and new competition in the markets we serve.
    Consequently, our historical revenue rates may not be indicative
    of future revenues based on comparable traffic volumes. If we
    are unable to sell our services at acceptable prices relative to
    our costs or if we are unsuccessful with our strategy of selling
    additional services and features to our existing content
    delivery customers, our revenues and gross margins will
    decrease, and our business and financial results will suffer.


 



    Failure
    to increase our revenues and keep our expenses consistent with
    revenues could prevent us from maintaining profitability at
    recent levels or at all.


 


    The year ended December 31, 2004 was the first fiscal year
    during which we achieved profitability as measured in accordance
    with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
    States of America. We have large fixed expenses, and we expect
    to continue to incur significant bandwidth, sales and marketing,
    product development, administrative and other expenses.
    Therefore, we will need to generate higher revenues to maintain
    profitability at recent levels or at all. There are numerous
    factors that could, alone or in combination with other factors,
    impede our ability to increase revenues
    and/or
    moderate expenses, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    failure to increase sales of our core services;



 


     
        • 

    
    significant increases in bandwidth costs or other operating
    expenses;



 


     
        • 

    
    inability to maintain our prices;



 


     
        • 

    
    any failure of our current and planned services and software to
    operate as expected;



 


     
        • 

    
    loss of any significant customers or loss of customers at a rate
    greater than we increase our number of customers or our sales to
    existing customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    unauthorized use or access to content delivered over our network
    or network failures;



 


     
        • 

    
    failure of a significant number of customers to pay our fees on
    a timely basis or at all or failure to continue to purchase our
    services in accordance with their contractual
    commitments; and






    
    8



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    inability to attract high-quality customers to purchase and
    implement our current and planned services.





 



    Future
    changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect
    our reported results of operations.


 


    A change in accounting standards can have a significant effect
    on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements and
    interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and
    may occur in the future. These new accounting pronouncements may
    adversely affect our reported financial results. For example,
    beginning in 2006, under Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 123R, or SFAS No. 123R, we will be
    required to account for our stock-based awards as a compensation
    expense and our net income and net income per share will be
    significantly reduced. Previously, we have recorded compensation
    expense only in connection with option grants that have an
    exercise price below fair market value. For option grants that
    have an exercise price at fair market value, we calculated
    compensation expense and disclosed their impact on net income
    (loss) and net income (loss) per share, as well as the impact of
    all stock-based compensation expense in a footnote to the
    consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 123R
    requires us to adopt the new accounting provisions beginning in
    our first quarter of 2006, and will require us to expense
    stock-based awards, including shares issued under our employee
    stock purchase plan, stock options, restricted stock and stock
    appreciation rights, as compensation cost. As a result, our
    earnings per share is likely to be significantly lower even if
    our revenues increase.


 



    If we
    are unable to develop new services and enhancements to existing
    services, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging
    technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our
    operating results may suffer.


 


    The market for our services is characterized by rapidly changing
    technology, evolving industry standards and new product and
    service introductions. Our operating results depend on our
    ability to develop and introduce new services into existing and
    emerging markets. The process of developing new technologies is
    complex and uncertain; we must commit significant resources to
    developing new services or enhancements to our existing services
    before knowing whether our investments will result in services
    the market will accept. Furthermore, we may not execute
    successfully our technology initiatives because of errors in
    planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome
    in a timely fashion, misunderstandings about market demand or a
    lack of appropriate resources. Failures in execution or market
    acceptance of new services we introduce could result in
    competitors providing those solutions before we do and,
    consequently, loss of market share, revenues and earnings.


 



    Any
    unplanned interruption in the functioning of our network or
    services could lead to significant costs and disruptions that
    could reduce our revenues and harm our business, financial
    results and reputation.


 


    Our business is dependent on providing our customers with fast,
    efficient and reliable distribution of application and content
    delivery services over the Internet. For our core services, we
    currently provide a standard guarantee that our networks will
    deliver Internet content 24 hours a day, 7 days a
    week, 365 days a year. If we do not meet this standard, our
    customer does not pay for all or a part of its services on that
    day. Our network or services could be disrupted by numerous
    events, including natural disasters, failure or refusal of our
    third-party network providers to provide the necessary capacity,
    power losses, and intentional disruptions of our services, such
    as disruptions caused by software viruses or attacks by
    unauthorized users. Although we have taken steps to prevent such
    disruptions, there can be no assurance that attacks by
    unauthorized users will not be attempted in the future, that our
    enhanced security measures will be effective or that a
    successful attack would not be damaging. Any widespread
    interruption of the functioning our network or services would
    reduce our revenues and could harm our business, financial
    results and reputation.


 



    As
    part of our business strategy, we have entered into and may
    enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and
    acquisitions that may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our
    business, dilute stockholder value or divert management
    attention.


 


    In June 2005, we completed our acquisition of Speedera. We may
    seek to enter into additional business combinations or
    acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions are typically
    accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of
    integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired
    companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the
    potential distraction of management, expenses related to the
    acquisition and potential



    
    9



Table of Contents




    unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. Any
    inability to integrate completed acquisitions in an efficient
    and timely manner could have an adverse impact on our results of
    operation. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions
    that we may pursue in the future, we may be required to
    reevaluate our business strategy, and we may incur substantial
    expenses and devote significant management time and resources
    without a productive result. In addition, with future
    acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available
    cash or, as in the Speedera acquisition, make dilutive issuances
    of securities. Future acquisitions or attempted acquisitions
    could also have an adverse effect on our ability to remain
    profitable.


 



    Because
    our services are complex and are deployed in complex
    environments, they may have errors or defects that could
    seriously harm our business.


 


    Our services are highly complex and are designed to be deployed
    in and across numerous large and complex networks. From time to
    time, we have needed to correct errors and defects in our
    software. In the future, there may be additional errors and
    defects in our software that may adversely affect our services.
    We may not have in place adequate quality assurance procedures
    to ensure that we detect errors in our software in a timely
    manner. If we are unable to efficiently fix errors or other
    problems that may be identified, or if there are unidentified
    errors that allow persons to improperly access our services, we
    could experience loss of revenues and market share, damage to
    our reputation, increased expenses and legal actions by our
    customers.


 



    We may
    have insufficient transmission and server capacity, which could
    result in interruptions in our services and loss of
    revenues.


 


    Our operations are dependent in part upon transmission capacity
    provided by third-party telecommunications network providers. In
    addition, our distributed network must be sufficiently robust to
    handle all of our customers’ traffic. We believe that we
    have access to adequate capacity to provide our services;
    however, there can be no assurance that we are adequately
    prepared for unexpected increases in bandwidth demands by our
    customers. In addition, the bandwidth we have contracted to
    purchase may become unavailable for a variety of reasons
    including due to payment disputes or network providers going out
    of business. Any failure of these network providers to provide
    the capacity we require, due to financial or other reasons, may
    result in a reduction in, or interruption of, service to our
    customers. If we do not have access to third-party transmission
    capacity, we could lose customers. If we are unable to obtain
    transmission capacity on terms commercially acceptable to us or
    at all, our business and financial results could suffer. We may
    not be able to deploy on a timely basis enough servers to meet
    the needs of our customer base or effectively manage the
    functioning of those servers. In addition, damage or destruction
    of, or other denial of access to, a facility where our servers
    are housed could result in a reduction in, or interruption of,
    service to our customers.


 



    If the
    estimates we make, and the assumptions on which we rely, in
    preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual
    results may be adversely affected.


 


    Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. The preparation of these financial statements requires
    us to make estimates and judgments about, among other things,
    taxes, revenue recognition, capitalization of internal-use
    software, contingent obligations, doubtful accounts and
    restructuring charges. These estimates and judgments affect the
    reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and
    expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, such as those
    made in connection with our restructuring charges, and related
    disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our
    estimates on historical experience and on various other
    assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the
    circumstances. If our estimates or the assumptions underlying
    them are not correct, we may need to accrue additional charges
    that could adversely affect our results of operations, which in
    turn could adversely affect our stock price.


 



    If we
    are unable to retain our key employees and hire qualified sales
    and technical personnel, our ability to compete could be
    harmed.


 


    Our future success depends upon the continued services of our
    executive officers and other key technology, sales, marketing
    and support personnel who have critical industry experience and
    relationships that they rely on in



    
    10



Table of Contents




    implementing our business plan. There is increasing competition
    for talented individuals in the areas in which our primary
    offices are located. This affects both our ability to retain key
    employees and hire new ones. None of our officers or key
    employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific
    term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees could
    delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact
    our ability to sell, our services.


 



    If our
    license agreement with MIT terminates, our business could be
    adversely affected.


 


    We have licensed technology from MIT covered by various patents,
    patent applications and copyrights relating to Internet content
    delivery technology. Some of our core technology is based in
    part on the technology covered by these patents, patent
    applications and copyrights. Our license is effective for the
    life of the patents and patent applications; however, under
    limited circumstances, such as a cessation of our operations due
    to our insolvency or our material breach of the terms of the
    license agreement, MIT has the right to terminate our license. A
    termination of our license agreement with MIT could have a
    material adverse effect on our business.


 



    We may
    need to defend our intellectual property and processes against
    patent or copyright infringement claims, which would cause us to
    incur substantial costs.


 


    Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may
    hold or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would
    prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or
    sell our services or develop new services, which could make it
    more difficult for us to increase revenues and improve
    profitability. Companies holding Internet-related patents or
    other intellectual property rights are increasingly bringing
    suits alleging infringement of such rights. Any litigation or
    claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs
    and diversion of resources and require us to do one or more of
    the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that
    incorporate the challenged intellectual property;



 


     
        • 

    
    pay substantial damages;



 


     
        • 

    
    obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual
    property right, which license may not be available on reasonable
    terms or at all; or



 


     
        • 

    
    redesign products or services.





 


    If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may
    be seriously harmed. In the event of a successful claim of
    infringement against us and our failure or inability to obtain a
    license to the infringed technology, our business and operating
    results could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Our
    business will be adversely affected if we are unable to protect
    our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use or
    infringement by third parties.


 


    We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and
    trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our
    intellectual property rights. We have brought numerous lawsuits
    against entities that we believe are infringing on our
    intellectual property rights. These legal protections afford
    only limited protection. Monitoring unauthorized use of our
    services is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we
    have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology,
    particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect
    our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States.
    Although we have licensed from other parties proprietary
    technology covered by patents, we cannot be certain that any
    such patents will not be challenged, invalidated or
    circumvented. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that any pending
    or future patent applications will be granted, that any future
    patent will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or
    that rights granted under any patent that may be issued will
    provide competitive advantages to us.


 



    We
    face risks associated with international operations that could
    harm our business.


 


    We have operations in several foreign countries and may continue
    to expand our sales and support organizations internationally.
    Such expansion could require us to make significant
    expenditures. We are increasingly



    
    11



Table of Contents




    subject to a number of risks associated with international
    business activities that may increase our costs, lengthen our
    sales cycle and require significant management attention. These
    risks include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increased expenses associated with marketing services in foreign
    countries;



 


     
        • 

    
    currency exchange rate fluctuations;



 


     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements resulting in
    unanticipated costs and delays;



 


     
        • 

    
    interpretations of laws or regulations that would subject us to
    regulatory supervision or, in the alternative, require us to
    exit a country which could have a negative impact on the quality
    of our services or our results of operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in
    collecting accounts receivable; and



 


     
        • 

    
    potentially adverse tax consequences.





 



    Any
    failure to meet our debt obligations would damage our
    business.


 


    We have long-term debt. As of December 31, 2005, our total
    long-term debt was $200.0 million. If we are unable to
    remain profitable or if we use more cash than we generate in the
    future, our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our
    future operations by increasing our vulnerability to adverse
    changes in general economic and industry conditions and by
    limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain additional
    financing for future capital expenditures, acquisitions and
    general corporate and other purposes. In addition, if we are
    unable to make interest or principal payments when due, we would
    be in default under the terms of our notes, which would result
    in all principal and interest becoming due and payable which, in
    turn, would seriously harm our business.


 



    If we
    are required to seek additional funding, such funding may not be
    available on acceptable terms or at all.


 


    If our revenues decrease or grow more slowly than we anticipate,
    if our operating expenses increase more than we expect or cannot
    be reduced in the event of lower revenues, or if we seek to
    acquire significant businesses or technologies, we may need to
    obtain funding from outside sources. If we are unable to obtain
    this funding, our business would be materially and adversely
    affected. In addition, even if we were to find outside funding
    sources, we might be required to issue securities with greater
    rights than the securities we have outstanding today. We might
    also be required to take other actions that could lessen the
    value of our common stock, including borrowing money on terms
    that are not favorable to us. In addition, we may not be able to
    raise any additional capital.


 



    Internet-related
    and other laws could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Laws and regulations that apply to communications and commerce
    over the Internet are becoming more prevalent. In particular,
    the growth and development of the market for online commerce has
    prompted calls for more stringent tax, consumer protection and
    privacy laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may
    impose additional burdens on companies conducting business
    online or providing Internet-related services such as ours. This
    could negatively affect both our business directly as well as
    the businesses of our customers, which could reduce their demand
    for our services. Tax laws that might apply to our servers,
    which are located in many different jurisdictions, could require
    us to pay additional taxes that would adversely affect our
    continued profitability. We have recorded certain tax reserves
    to address potential exposures involving our sales and use and
    franchise tax positions. These potential tax liabilities result
    from the varying application of statutes, rules, regulations and
    interpretations by different jurisdictions. Our reserves,
    however, may not be adequate to reflect our total actual
    liability. Internet-related laws remain largely unsettled, even
    in areas where there has been some legislative action. The
    adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the
    Internet or our operations, or interpretations of existing law,
    could adversely affect our business.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Provisions
    of our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan and
    Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a
    change in control even if the change in control would be
    beneficial to our stockholders.


 


    Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of
    incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and Delaware law
    could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us,
    even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. In
    addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a shareholder
    rights plan the provisions of which could make it more difficult
    for a potential acquirer of Akamai to consummate an acquisition
    transaction without the approval of our Board of Directors.


 



    A
    class action lawsuit has been filed against us and an adverse
    resolution of such action could have a material adverse effect
    on our financial condition and results of operation in the
    period in which the lawsuit is resolved.


 


    We are named as a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit
    filed in 2001 alleging that the underwriters of our initial
    public offering received undisclosed compensation in connection
    with our initial public offering of common stock in violation of
    the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. Any conclusion
    of these matters in a manner adverse to us could have a material
    adverse affect on our financial position and results of
    operations.


 



    We may
    become involved in other litigation that may adversely affect
    us.


 


    In the ordinary course of business, we may become involved in
    litigation, administrative proceedings and governmental
    proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert
    management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur
    significant expenses. Furthermore, there can be no assurance
    that the results of any of these actions will not have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    or financial condition.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B