Item 1A: Risk Factors.” Please consider our
forward-looking statements in light of those risks as you read this
report.
    
      
        
        
      
      
        - 4
- -
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    PART I
     
    
      

            
              ITEM 1.  OUR
  BUSINESS
            
          
    
     
    We are a
Delaware corporation incorporated in 1985 and we have two principal
subsidiaries: Alaska Airlines, Inc. (Alaska) and Horizon Air Industries, Inc.
(Horizon). Through these subsidiaries, we provide passenger air service to more
than 22 million passengers per year to more than 90 destinations. We also
provide freight and mail services, primarily to and within the state of Alaska
and on the West Coast. Although Alaska and Horizon both operate as airlines,
their business plans, competition, and economic risks differ substantially.
Alaska is a major airline that operates an all-jet fleet with an average
passenger trip length in 2009 of 1,180 miles. Horizon is a regional airline,
operates turboprop and jet aircraft, and its average passenger trip length for
2009 was 356 miles. Individual financial information about Alaska and Horizon is
in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements and throughout this report,
specifically in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.”
     
    Both of
our airlines continue to distinguish themselves from competitors by providing
award-winning customer service and differentiating amenities. Our outstanding
employees and excellent service in the form of advance seat assignments,
expedited check-in with Airport of the Future®, web check-in, flight alerts, an
award-winning frequent flyer program, well-maintained aircraft, a first-class
section aboard Alaska aircraft, and other amenities are regularly recognized by
independent studies, awards, and surveys of air travelers. For example, Alaska
has ranked “Highest in Customer Satisfaction among Traditional Network Carriers”
in both 2009 and 2008 by J.D. Power and Associates and won the “Program of the
Year” Freddie award for 2008 and 2007 for our Mileage Plan program. Horizon won
the 2007 “Regional Airline of the Year” from Air Transport World.  We
are very proud of these awards and we continue to strive to have the best
customer service in the industry.
     
    WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION
     
    Our
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports are available on our website at www.alaskaair.com, free of
charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these
reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained
on our website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K.
     
    
      
        

               ALASKA RANKED “HIGHEST IN CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AMONG
      TRADITIONAL NETWORK CARRIERS” IN BOTH 2009 AND 2008 BY J.D. POWER AND
      ASSOCIATES.   HORIZON WON THE 2007 “REGIONAL AIRLINE OF THE
      YEAR” FROM AIR TRANSPORT 
            
      
       
      OUR AIRLINES
    
     
    ALASKA
     
    Alaska
Airlines is an Alaska corporation that was organized in 1932 and incorporated in
1937. We offer extensive north/south service within the western U.S., Canada and
Mexico, and passenger and dedicated cargo services to and within the state of
Alaska. We also provide long-haul east/west service to Hawaii and twelve cities
in the mid-continental and eastern U.S., primarily from Seattle, where we have
our largest concentration of departures; although we do offer long-haul
departures from other cities as well.
     
    In 2009,
we carried 15.6 million revenue passengers in our mainline operations, and
we carry more passengers between Alaska and the U.S. mainland than any other
airline. Based on the number of passengers carried in 2009, Alaska’s leading
airports are Seattle, Los Angeles, Anchorage and Portland. Based on 2009
revenues, the leading nonstop routes are Seattle-Anchorage, Seattle-Los Angeles,
and Seattle-San Diego. At December 31, 2009, Alaska’s operating fleet
consisted of 115 jet aircraft, compared to 110 aircraft as of December 31,
2008.
    
    Alaska’s passenger traffic by market is
presented below: 
     
    
      

             
             
            
              2009
            
             
             
            
              2008
            
             
          
            
              West
      Coast
            
             
             
            36
            %
             
             
            41
            %
          
            
              Within
      Alaska and between Alaska and the U.S. mainland
            
             
             
            21
            %
             
             
            23
            %
          
            
              Transcon/midcon
            
             
             
            23
            %
             
             
            20
            %
          
            
              Mexico
            
             
             
            9
            %
             
             
            8
            %
          
            
              Hawaii
            
             
             
            9
            %
             
             
            5
            %
          
            
              Canada
            
             
             
            2
            %
             
             
            3
            %
          
            
              Total
            
             
             
            100
            %
             
             
            100
            %
          
    
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        - 5
- -
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    HORIZON
     
    Horizon
Air Industries is a Washington corporation that first began service, was
incorporated in 1981 and was acquired by Air Group in 1986. It is the largest
regional airline in the Pacific Northwest, and serves a number of cities in
seven states, five cities in Canada, and two cities in Mexico.
     
    In 2009,
Horizon carried 6.8 million revenue passengers. Approximately 90% of
Horizon’s revenue passenger miles in 2009 were flown domestically, primarily in
the states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho and California, compared to 91% in 2008.
The Canada markets accounted for 8% of revenue passenger miles in both 2009 and
2008. Flying to Mexico accounted for about 2% of total traffic in 2009 compared
to less than 1% in 2008.
    
    Based on
2009 passenger enplanements, Horizon’s leading airports are Seattle, Portland,
Boise, and Spokane. Based on revenues in 2009, the leading nonstop routes are
Portland-Seattle, Spokane-Seattle, and Boise-Seattle. At December 31, 2009,
Horizon’s operating fleet consisted of 18 jets and 40 turboprop aircraft.
Horizon flights are listed under the Alaska Airlines designator code in airline
reservation systems.
     
    Alaska
and Horizon integrate their flight schedules to provide convenient, competitive
connections between most points served by their systems. In 2009 and 2008,
approximately 22% and 23%, respectively, of Horizon’s passengers connected to
flights operated by Alaska.
     
    INDUSTRY CONDITIONS
     
    GENERAL
    
    The
airline industry is highly competitive and has historically been characterized
by low profit margins and high fixed costs, primarily for wages, aircraft fuel,
aircraft ownership, and facilities rents. Because expenses of a flight do not
vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small
change in the number of passengers or in pricing has a disproportionate effect
on an airline’s operating and financial results. In other words, a minor
shortfall in expected revenue levels could cause a disproportionately negative
impact on our results of operations. Passenger demand and ticket prices are, to
a large measure, influenced by the general state of the economy, current global
economic and political events and total available airline seat
capacity.
    
    2009
    
    2009 was
a year plagued by economic woes and the worst recession the United States has
experienced since the Great Depression.  The result was a steep
decline in the demand for air travel, causing a double-digit percentage decline
in unit revenue and passenger count across the industry.  In response
to this decline and the high price of oil in 2008, airlines reduced domestic
capacity by approximately 7% in 2009 compared to 2008. The significant decline
in the average price of jet fuel from its 2008 high helped mitigate an otherwise
difficult year for the industry.  In order to maximize revenue to help
offset the demand decline, airlines continued down the path of adding or
increasing ancillary fees for checked baggage, buy-on-board items, ticket fees,
etc.  These fees helped to recover some of the lost revenue from the
decline in traffic, but certainly not all of it.
    
    During
2009, our key initiative was to optimize revenue.  We reduced and
redeployed capacity to better match demand, and the new markets we have entered
are performing well.  Our revenue initiatives, combined with lower
fuel costs, our continued focus on customer service and our strong operational
performance resulted in financial results that significantly improved from 2008
and were among the best in the industry.
    
       
      
        
          

                
                  OUR
      REVENUE INITIATIVES, COMBINED WITH LOWER FUEL COSTS, OUR CONTINUED FOCUS
      ON CUSTOMER SERVICE AND OUR STRONG OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE RESULTED IN
      2009 FINANCIAL RESULTS THAT WERE AMONG THE BEST IN THE
      INDUSTRY.
                
              
        
         
      
    
    FUEL
    
    Our
business and financial results are highly affected by the price and,
potentially, the availability of jet fuel. Fuel prices have been extremely
volatile over the past few years. The price of crude oil averaged over $106 per
barrel in 2008, with a high of nearly $150 per barrel in July 2008. The average
price in 2009 was a more moderate $62 per barrel, although that price is still
historically high.  For us, a $1 per barrel increase in the price of
oil equates to approximately $9 million of additional fuel cost
annually.  A one-cent change in our fuel price per gallon will impact
our expected annual fuel cost by approximately $3.5 million per
year.
    We refer
to the price we pay for fuel at the airport, including applicable taxes, as our
“raw” fuel price. Raw fuel prices are impacted by world oil prices and refining
costs, which can vary by region in the U.S. Generally, West Coast jet fuel
prices are somewhat higher and more volatile than prices in the Gulf Coast or on
the East Coast, putting our airlines at a slight competitive disadvantage.
Historically, fuel costs have generally represented 10% to 15% of an airline’s
operating costs, but due to volatility in prices over the past few years, fuel
costs have been in the range of 20% to 40% of total operating costs. Both the
crude oil and refining cost components of jet fuel are volatile and outside of
our control, and they can have a significant and immediate impact on our
operating results.
    
    As
depicted in the charts below, our average raw fuel cost per gallon declined 43%
in 2009, and increased 42% and 8% in 2008 and 2007, respectively.
     
    
    We use
crude oil call options and jet fuel refining margin swap contracts as hedges to
decrease our exposure to the volatility of jet fuel prices. Call options
effectively cap our pricing on the crude oil component of fuel prices, limiting
our exposure to increasing fuel prices for about half of our planned fuel
consumption. With these call option contracts, we still benefit from the decline
in crude oil prices, as there is no future cash exposure above the premiums we
pay to enter into the contracts.
    
       
      
        
          

                
                  
                    
                      OUR
      AIRCRAFT ARE AMONG THE MOST FUEL-EFFICIENT IN THEIR RESPECTIVE
      CLASSES.
                    
                  
                
              
        
         
      
    
    We
believe that operating fuel-efficient aircraft also helps to mitigate the effect
of high fuel prices. Alaska operates an all-Boeing 737 fleet. At Horizon, the
long-term goal is to transition to an all-Q400 turboprop fleet. Because of these
changes, Alaska’s fuel burn expressed in available seat miles flown per gallon
(ASMs/g) improved from 65.9 ASMs/g in 2006 to 75.9 ASMs/g in 2009. Similarly,
Horizon’s fuel burn has improved from 51.7 ASMs/g in 2006 to 54.8 ASMs/g in
2009.
    
    These
reductions have not only reduced our fuel cost, but also the amount of
greenhouse gases and other pollutants that our operations emit.
    
    MARKETING AND COMPETITION
    
    ALLIANCES WITH OTHER AIRLINES
    
    We have
marketing alliances with several airlines that provide reciprocal frequent flyer
mileage credit and redemption privileges as well as code sharing on certain
flights as shown in the table below. Alliances are an important part of our
strategy and enhance our revenues by:
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              offering
      our customers more travel destinations and better mileage
      credit/redemption opportunities;
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              offering
      our Mileage Plan program a competitive advantage because of our
      partnership with carriers from two major global alliances (Oneworld and
      Skyteam);
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              giving
      us access to more connecting traffic from other airlines;
    and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              providing
      members of our alliance partners’ frequent flyer programs an opportunity
      to travel on Alaska and Horizon while earning mileage credit in our
      partners’ programs.
            
          
    
     
    Most of
our codeshare relationships are free-sell codeshares, where the marketing
carrier sells seats on the operating carrier’s flights from the operating
carrier’s inventory, but takes no inventory risk. Our marketing agreements have
various termination dates, and at any time, one or more may be in the process of
renegotiation.
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        - 6
- -
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    Our marketing alliances with other
airlines as of December 31, 2009 are as follows: 
    
      

             
      
            
              Frequent
              Flyer
              Agreement
            
            
              Codeshare—
              Alaska
              Flight
      #
              on
      Flights
              Operated
      by
              Other
      Airline
            
            
              Codeshare—
              Other Airline
              Flight
      # On
              Flights
              Operated
      by
              Alaska/
              Horizon
            
          
            
              Major
      U.S. or International
      Airlines
            
          
            
              American
      Airlines/American
      Eagle
            
            
              Yes
            
            
                      Yes
            
            
                       Yes
            
          
            
              Air
      France
            
            
              Yes
            
            
                      No
            
            
                       Yes
            
          
            
              British
      Airways
            
            
              Yes
            
            
                      No
            
            
                       No
            
          
            
              Cathay
      Pacific Airways
            
            
              Yes
            
            
                      No
            
            
                       No
            
          
            
              Delta
      Air Lines/Delta Connection
      (2)
            
            
              Yes
            
            
                      Yes
            
            
                       Yes
            
          
            
              KLM
            
            
              Yes
            
            
                      No
            
            
                       Yes
            
          
            
              Korean
      Air
            
            
              Yes
            
            
                      No
            
            
                       Yes
            
          
            
              Lan
      S.A.
            
            
              Yes
            
            
                      No
            
            
                       Yes
            
          
            
              Air
      Pacific (1)
            
            
              Yes
            
            
                      No
            
            
                       Yes
            
          
            
              Qantas
            
            
              Yes
            
            
                      No
            
            
                       Yes
            
          
            
              Regional
      Airlines
            
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Era
      Alaska
            
            
              Yes (1)
            
            
                      Yes
            
            
                       No
            
          
            
              PenAir
            
            
              Yes (1)
            
            
                      Yes
            
            
                       No
            
          
    
    
       
    
    
      

            
              (1)
            
            
              These
      airlines do not have their own frequent flyer program. However, Alaska’s
      Mileage Plan members can earn and redeem miles on these airlines’ route
      systems.
            
          
    
    
      

            
              (2)
            
            
              Alaska
      has codeshare agreements with the Delta Connection carriers Skywest and
      ASA as part of its agreement with Delta.  This agreement also
      includes former Northwest Airlines
flights.
            
          
    
     
     
    
      

            
              COMPETITION
            
          
    
     
    Competition
in the airline industry is intense. We believe the principal competitive factors
in the industry that are important to customers are:
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              safety
      record and reputation,
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              flight
      schedules,
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              fares,
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              customer
      service,
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              routes
      served,
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              frequent
      flyer programs,
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              on-time
      arrivals,
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              baggage
      handling,
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              on-board
      amenities,
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              type
      of aircraft, and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              code-sharing
      relationships.
            
          
    
     
    Together,
Alaska and Horizon carry approximately 3.5% of all U.S. domestic passenger
traffic. We compete with one or more domestic or foreign airlines on most of our
routes, including Southwest Airlines, United Airlines, Delta Air Lines,
Continental Airlines, American Airlines, US Airways, JetBlue Airways, Virgin
America, Allegiant and regional affiliates associated with some of these
carriers.
    
    Due to
its short-haul markets, Horizon also competes with ground transportation in many
markets, including train, bus and automobile transportation.  Both
carriers, to some extent, also compete with technology such as video
conferencing and internet-based meeting tools that have resulted in a change in
business travel.
    
    TICKET DISTRIBUTION
     
    Airline
tickets are distributed through three primary channels:
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Alaskaair.com. It is
      less expensive for us to sell through this direct channel and, as a
      result, we continue to take steps to drive more business to our website.
      In addition, we believe this channel is preferable from a branding and
      customer-relationship standpoint in that we can establish ongoing
      communication with the customer and tailor offers
    accordingly.
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Traditional and online travel
      agencies. Consumer reliance on traditional travel agencies
      continues to shrink, giving way to online travel agencies. Both
      traditional and online travel agencies typically use Global Distribution
      Systems (GDS), such as Sabre, to obtain their fare and inventory data from
      airlines. Bookings made through these agencies result in a fee that is
      charged to the airline. Many of our large corporate customers require that
      we use these agencies. Some of our competitors do not use this
      distribution channel and, as a result, have lower ticket distribution
      costs.
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Reservation call
      centers. These call centers are located in Phoenix, Ariz.; Kent,
      Wash.; and Boise, Idaho. We generally charge a $15 fee for booking
      reservations through these call
centers.
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              Our
      sales by channel are as follows: 
            
          
    
    
      

             
      
             
            
              2009
            
             
             
            
              2008
            
             
          
            
              Alaskaair.com
            
             
             
            48
            %
             
             
            45
            %
          
            
              Traditional
      and online travel agencies
            
             
             
            42
            %
             
             
            43
            %
          
            
              Reservation
      call centers
            
             
             
            9
            %
             
             
            11
            %
          
            
              All
      other channels
            
             
             
            1
            %
             
             
            1
            %
          
            
              Total
            
             
             
            100
            %
             
             
            100
            %
          
    
    
    EMPLOYEES
     
    Labor
costs have historically made up 30% to 40% of an airline’s total operating
costs. Most major airlines, including ours, have employee groups that are
covered by collective
bargaining agreements. Airlines with unionized work forces have higher labor
costs than carriers without unionized work forces, and they may not have the
ability to adjust labor costs downward quickly enough to respond to new
competition. New entrants into the U.S. airline industry generally do not have
unionized work forces, which can be a competitive advantage for those
airlines.
    
      
        
        
      
      
        - 7
- -
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    We had
12,440 (9,046 at Alaska and 3,394 at Horizon) active full-time and part-time
employees at December 31, 2009, compared to 14,143 (10,250 at Alaska and
3,893 at Horizon) as of December 31, 2008. Wages, salaries and benefits
(including variable incentive pay) represented approximately 43% and 40% of our
total non-fuel operating expenses in 2009 and 2008, respectively.
     
    At
December 31, 2009, labor unions represented 82% of Alaska’s and 46% of
Horizon’s employees. Our relations with our labor organizations are governed by
the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under this act, collective bargaining agreements do
not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If either party
wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party
in the manner prescribed by the RLA and/or described in the agreement. After
receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no
agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board
(NMB) to initiate a process including mediation, arbitration, and a potential
“cooling off” period that must be followed before either party may engage in
self-help.
     
    Alaska’s
union contracts at December 31, 2009 were as follows:
     
    
      

            
              Union
            
            
              Employee Group
            
            
              Number of
              Active
      Employees
            
            
              Contract Status
            
          
            
              Air
      Line Pilots Association International
      (ALPA)
            
            
              Pilots
            
            
                            1,253
            
            
              Amendable
      4/1/2013
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Association of Flight Attendants (AFA)
            
            
              Flight
      attendants
            
            
                            2,268
            
            
              Amendable 4/27/2012
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              International
      Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
      (IAM)
            
            
              Ramp service and stock
      clerks
            
            
                            733
            
            
              Amendable
      7/17/2012
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              IAM
            
            
              Clerk,
      office and passenger service
            
            
                            2,387
            
            
              Amendable
      7/17/2010
            
          
             
             
             
             
          
            
              Aircraft
      Mechanics Fraternal Association
      (AMFA)
            
            
              Mechanics,
      inspectors and cleaners
            
            
                            634
            
            
              Amendable 10/17/2011
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Mexico
      Workers Association of Air Transport
            
            
              Mexico airport personnel
            
            
                            70
            
            
              Amendable
      9/29/2010
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Transport Workers Union
      of America (TWU)
            
            
              Dispatchers
            
            
                            35
            
            
              Amendable
      7/01/2010*
            
          
    
    
       
    
    
      

            
              *
            
            
              Collective
      bargaining agreement contains interest arbitration
    provision.
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
               
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              Horizon’s
      union contracts at December 31, 2009 were as
  follows:
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              Union
            
            
              Employee
      Group
            
            
              Number
      of
              Active
      Employees
            
            
              Contract
      Status
            
          
            
              International
      Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT)
            
            
              Pilots
            
            
                        531
            
            
              In Negotiations
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              AFA
            
            
              Flight
      attendants
            
            
                        519
            
            
              Amendable
      12/21/2011
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              IBT
            
            
              Mechanics
      and related classifications
            
            
                        450
            
            
              In
      Negotiations
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              TWU
            
            
              Dispatchers
            
            
                        16
            
            
              Amendable
      10/06/2010
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              National
      Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers
            
            
              Station personnel in Vancouver
      and Victoria, BC, Canada
            
            
                        60
            
            
              Expires 2/14/2010
            
          
    
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        - 8
- -
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
     
    The
executive officers of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and executive officers of Alaska
and Horizon who have significant decision-making responsibilities, their
positions and their respective ages (as of February 1, 2010) are as
follows:
     
    
      

            
              Name
            
            
              Position
            
            
              Age
            
            
              Air
      Group
              or Subsidiary
              Officer
      Since
            
          
            
              William
      S. Ayer
            
            
              Chairman,
      President and Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Airlines,
    Inc.
            
            
                    55
            
            
                            1985
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Glenn
      S. Johnson
            
            
              Executive
      Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group,
      Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc.
            
            
                    51
            
            
                            1991
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Keith
      Loveless
            
            
              Vice
      President/Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate
      Secretary of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines,
    Inc.
            
            
                    53
            
            
                            1996
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Bradley
      D. Tilden
            
            
              President
      of Alaska Airlines, Inc.
            
            
                    49
            
            
                            1994
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Jeffrey
      D. Pinneo
            
            
              President
      and Chief Executive Officer of Horizon Air Industries,
Inc.
            
            
                    53
            
            
                            1990
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Benito
      Minicucci
            
            
              Executive
      Vice President/Operations and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines,
      Inc.
            
            
                    43
            
            
                            2004
            
          
             
             
             
             
          
            
              Kelley
      Dobbs
            
            
              Vice
      President/Human Resources and Labor Relations of Alaska Airlines,
      Inc.
            
            
                    43
            
            
                            2004
            
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
            
              Brandon S. Pedersen
            
            
              Vice
      President/Finance and Controller of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska
      Airlines, Inc. (Principal Accounting Officer)
            
            
                    43
            
            
                            2003
            
          
    
     
    Mr. Ayer has been
President since February 2003 and became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in
May 2003. Mr. Ayer is also Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Alaska
Airlines. He has served as Alaska Airlines’ Chairman since February 2003, as
Chief Executive Officer since January 2002 and as President from November 1997
to December 2008. Prior to that, he was Sr. Vice President/Customer Service,
Marketing and Planning of Alaska Airlines from January 1997, and Vice
President/Marketing and Planning from August 1995. Prior thereto, he served as
Sr. Vice President/Operations of Horizon Air from January 1995. Mr. Ayer
serves on the boards of Alaska Airlines, Puget Energy, Inc., the Alaska Airlines
Foundation, Angel Flight West, Inc., and the Museum of Flight. He also serves on
the University of Washington Business School Advisory Board, and as a director
of the Seattle branch of the Federal Reserve Board.
    
    Mr. Johnson joined
Alaska Airlines in 1982, became Vice President/Controller and Treasurer of
Horizon Air Industries in 1991 and Vice President/Customer Services in 2002. He
returned to Alaska Airlines in 2003 where he has served in several roles,
including Vice President/Finance and Controller and Vice President/Finance and
Treasurer. He served as Senior Vice President/Customer Service – Airports from
January 2006 through April 2007 and in April 2007, he was elected Executive Vice
President/Airports and Maintenance and Engineering. He was elected Executive
Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group and
Alaska Airlines in December 2008. He is a member of Air Group’s Management
Executive Committee.
     
    Mr. Loveless became
Corporate Secretary and Assistant General Counsel of Alaska Air Group and Alaska
Airlines in 1996. In 1999, he was named Vice President/Legal and Corporate
Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Alaska Air Group and Alaska
Airlines. He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive
Committee.
    
    Mr. Tilden joined Alaska
Airlines in 1991, became controller of Alaska Airlines and Alaska Air Group in
1994, Chief Financial Officer in February 2000, Executive Vice President/Finance
in January 2002, Executive Vice President/Finance and Planning in 2007, and
President of Alaska Airlines in December 2008. He is a member of Air Group’s
Management Executive Committee.
     
    Mr. Pinneo became Vice
President/Passenger Service of Horizon Air Industries in 1990 following nine
years at Alaska Airlines in various marketing roles. In January 2002, he was
named President and CEO of Horizon Air. He is a member of Air Group’s Management
Executive Committee.
    
    Mr. Minicucci joined
Alaska Airlines in 2004 as Staff Vice President of Maintenance and Engineering
and was promoted to Vice President of Seattle Operations in June 2008. In
December 2008 he was elected Executive Vice President/Operations and Chief
Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines. He is a member of Air Group’s Management
Executive Committee.
     
    Ms. Dobbs joined Alaska
Airlines in 1987, became Staff Vice President/Human Resources – Staffing and
Development in 2004, Vice President/Human Resources – Strategy, Culture and
Inclusion in June 2007, and Vice President/Human Resources and Labor Relations
in 2009. She is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive
Committee.
     
    Mr. Pedersen joined
Alaska Airlines in 2003 as Staff Vice President/Finance and Controller of Alaska
Air Group and Alaska Airlines and was elected Vice President/Finance and
Controller for both entities in 2006.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        - 9
- -
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    REGULATION
     
    GENERAL
     
    The
airline industry is highly regulated.
    
    The
Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers.
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              DOT: In order to provide passenger
      and cargo air transportation in the U.S., a domestic airline is required
      to hold a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the
      DOT. Subject to certain individual airport capacity, noise and other
      restrictions, this certificate permits an air carrier to operate between
      any two points in the U.S. Certificates do not expire, but may be revoked
      for failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders
      or the terms of the certificates. In addition, the DOT has jurisdiction over the
      approval of international codeshare agreements, alliance agreements
      between domestic major airlines, international route authorities and
      certain consumer protection matters, such as advertising, denied boarding
      compensation and baggage liability. International treaties may also
      contain restrictions or requirements for flying outside of the
      U.S.
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              FAA: The FAA, through
      Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs), generally regulates all aspects of
      airline operations, including establishing personnel, maintenance and
      flight operation standards. Domestic airlines are required to hold a valid
      air carrier operating certificate issued by the FAA. Pursuant to these
      regulations we have established, and the FAA has approved, our operations
      specifications and a maintenance program for each type of aircraft we
      operate. The maintenance program provides for the ongoing maintenance of
      such aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major
      overhauls. From time to time the FAA issues airworthiness directives (ADs)
      that must be incorporated into our aircraft maintenance program and
      operations. All airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are
      brought by the FAA from time to time for alleged violations of FARs or
      ADs. At this time, we are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that
      could either materially affect our financial position or impact our
      authority to operate.
            
          
    
    
    The
Aviation and Transportation Security Act (the Security Act) generally provides
for enhanced aviation security measures. Pursuant to the Security Act, the
Transportation Security Administration (TSA) is responsible for aviation
security.  The Security Act imposes a $2.50 per enplanement security
service fee (maximum $5.00 one-way fee), which is collected by the air carriers
and submitted to the government to pay for these enhanced security measures. In
addition, carriers are required to pay an amount to the TSA to cover the cost of
providing security measures equal to the amount the air carriers paid for
screening passengers and property in 2000. We paid $12.6 million each year to
the TSA for this security charge in 2009, 2008 and 2007.
    
    The
Department of Justice has jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. The U.S.
Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of
mail and related services. Labor relations in the air transportation industry
are regulated under the Railway Labor Act. To the extent we continue to fly to
foreign countries and pursue alliances with international carriers, we may be
subject to certain regulations of foreign agencies.
     
    AIRLINE FARES
     
    Airlines
are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental
regulation, and the industry is characterized by vigorous price competition. The
DOT maintains authority over international (generally outside of North America)
fares, rates and charges. International fares and rates are also subject to the
jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries we serve. Although air
carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate tariffs,
substantial commissions, overrides and discounts given to travel agents, brokers
and wholesalers characterize many international markets.
     
    ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
     
    We are
subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental
matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other countries. U.S.
federal laws that have a particular effect on us include the Airport Noise and
Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or Superfund Act. We are
also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters. The U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, OSHA, and other federal agencies have been
authorized to create and enforce regulations that have an impact on our
operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been
delegated certain authorities under these federal statutes. Many state and local
governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and
regulations. We maintain our safety, health and environmental programs in order
to meet or exceed these requirements.
    
    It is
expected that the current federal administration will likely move forward with
legislation to reduce carbon and other
greenhouse gas emissions. We do not believe legislation is necessary to motivate
airlines to reduce fuel burn and, in turn, reduce emissions. For example, Alaska
and Horizon have transitioned or are transitioning to more fuel-efficient
aircraft fleets, thereby greatly reducing our total
emissions.
    
      
        
        
      
      
        - 10
- -
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    The
Airport Noise and Capacity Act recognizes the rights of airport operators with
noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do
not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national
air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have established
aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime
curfews. We believe we have sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate
local noise restrictions.
     
    Although
we do not currently anticipate that these regulatory matters, individually or
collectively, will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows, new regulations or compliance issues that we do not
currently anticipate could have the potential to harm our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows in future periods.
    
    CUSTOMER SERVICE
     
    Along
with other domestic airlines, we have implemented a customer service commitment
plan to address a number of service goals, including, but not limited to, goals
relating to lowest fare availability, delays, cancellations and diversions,
baggage delivery and liability, guaranteed fares and ticket refunds. All of our
employees are required to periodically attend our Customer Experience Workshop
to enhance our customer service focus and ultimately improve the experience our
customers have when traveling with us.
     
    In
December 2009, the DOT adopted new rules effective in April 2010 that set fines
of as much as $27,500 per passenger when airlines leave passengers on the
aircraft for more than three hours while on the ground.  These new
rules are in response to recent incidents involving other airlines that resulted
in lengthy tarmac delays.  Bills have been introduced in several
states, including the state of Washington, which propose to regulate airlines
when operating in those specific states. However, we believe these bills would
be preempted by federal law. We do not believe these bills are
necessary.
    
    MILEAGE PLAN PROGRAM
    
    All major
airlines have developed frequent flyer programs as a way of increasing passenger
loyalty. Alaska’s Mileage Plan allows members to earn mileage by flying on
Alaska, Horizon and other participating airlines and by using the services of
non-airline partners, which include a credit card partner, a grocery store
chain, a telephone company, hotels, car rental agencies, and other businesses.
Alaska is paid by non-airline partners for the miles it credits to member
accounts. With advance notice, Alaska has the ability to change the Mileage Plan
terms, conditions, partners, mileage credits, and award levels or to terminate
the program.
    
    Mileage
can be redeemed for free or discounted travel and for various other awards. Upon
accumulating the necessary mileage, members notify Alaska of their award
selection. Mileage Plan accounts are generally deleted after two years of
inactivity in a member’s account. Over 80% of the free flight awards on Alaska
and Horizon in 2009 were subject to capacity-controlled seating.
    
    As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 3.0 million and
3.4 million, respectively, round-trip flight awards were eligible for
redemption by Mileage Plan members. Of those eligible awards, we estimate that
approximately 88% will ultimately be redeemed. For the years 2009, 2008 and
2007, approximately 1,190,000, 685,000 and 600,000 round-trip awards and
260,000, 410,000 and 250,000 one-way flight awards were redeemed and flown on
Alaska and Horizon. These awards represent approximately 15.0%, 9.3%, and 7.0%
for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, of the total passenger miles flown on
Alaska and Horizon. For the years 2009, 2008, and 2007, approximately 181,000,
214,000, and 243,000, respectively, round-trip flight awards were redeemed and
flown on airline partners. In November 2008, we began charging a $25 fee for
awards redeemed on our airline partners.
     
    We also
have awards that allow for redemption of one-half the mileage redemption rate
plus 50% of the fare for eligible award travel.  Our members redeemed
approximately 730,000, 620,000, and 560,000 one-way equivalent awards under this
program in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
    
    We sell
mileage credits to our non-airline partners. We defer a majority of the sales
proceeds and recognize revenue when award transportation is
provided.
    
    OTHER INFORMATION
    
    SEASONALITY AND OTHER FACTORS
    
    Our
results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of
those for the entire year because our business is subject to seasonal
fluctuations. Our profitability is generally lowest during the first and fourth
quarters due principally to lower traffic. It typically increases in the second
quarter and then reaches its highest level during the third quarter as a result
of vacation travel, including increased activity in the state of
Alaska.
    
    In
addition to passenger loads, factors that could cause our quarterly operating
results to vary include:  
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              general
      economic conditions and resulting changes in passenger
    demand,
            
          
    
    
      
        
        
      
      
        - 11
- -
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    
    •      pricing
initiatives by us and our competitors,
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              changes
      in fuel costs,
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              the
      timing and amount of maintenance expenditures (both planned and
      unplanned),
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              increases
      or decreases in passenger and volume-driven variable costs,
      and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              labor
      actions.
            
          
    
     
    In
addition to those factors listed above, seasonal variations in traffic, the
timing of various expenditures and adverse weather conditions may affect our
operating results from quarter to quarter. Many of the markets we serve
experience inclement weather conditions in the winter, causing increased costs
associated with deicing aircraft, canceled flights and reaccommodation of
displaced passengers. Due to our geographic area of operations, we can be more
susceptible to adverse weather conditions (particularly in the state of Alaska
and the Pacific Northwest) than some of our competitors, who may be better able
to spread weather-related risks over larger route systems.
    
    No
material part of our business or that of our subsidiaries is dependent upon a
single customer, or upon a few high-volume customers.
    
    INSURANCE
     
    We carry
Airline Hull, Spares and Comprehensive Legal Liability Insurance in amounts and
of the type generally consistent with industry practice to cover damage to
aircraft, spare parts and spare engines, as well as bodily injury and property
damage to passengers and third parties. Since the September 11, 2001
attacks, this insurance program excludes coverage for War and Allied Perils,
including hijacking, terrorism, malicious acts, strikes, riots, civil commotion
and other identified perils. So, like other airlines, the company has purchased
war risk coverage for such events through the U.S. government.
     
    We
believe that our emphasis on safety and our state-of-the-art flight deck safety
technology help to control the cost of aviation insurance.
     
    
      

            
              ITEM 1A.RISK
FACTORS
            
          
    
     
    If any of
the following occurs, our business, financial condition and results of
operations could suffer. In such case, the trading price of our common stock
could also decline. We operate in a continually changing business
environment.  In this environment, new risks may emerge and already
identified risks may vary significantly in terms of impact and likelihood of
occurrence. Management cannot predict such developments, nor can it assess the
impact, if any, on our business of such new risk factors or of events described
in any forward-looking statements.
    
    ECONOMY
AND FINANCE
    
    The
current economic climate has impacted demand for our product and could harm our
financial condition and results of operations if the environment does not
improve.
     
    The
recent economic recession resulted in a decline in demand for air travel. If the
economic climate does not improve and traffic does not improve as we expect, we
will likely need to adjust our capacity plans, which could harm our business,
financial condition and results of operations.
    
    Our
business, financial condition, and results of operations are substantially
exposed to the volatility of jet fuel prices. Increases in jet fuel costs would
harm our business.
     
    Fuel
costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses,
accounting for 21% and 36% of total operating expenses for the years ended
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Significant increases in average
fuel costs during the past several years have negatively affected our results of
operations.
    
    Future
increases in the price of jet fuel will harm our financial condition and results
of operations, unless we are able to increase fares or add additional ancillary
fees to attempt to recover increasing fuel costs.
    
    Our
indebtedness and other fixed obligations could increase the volatility of
earnings and otherwise restrict our activities and potentially lead to liquidity
constraints.
     
    We have,
and will continue to have for the foreseeable future, a significant amount of
debt. Due to our high fixed costs, including aircraft lease commitments and debt
service, a decrease in revenues results in a disproportionately greater decrease
in earnings.
     
    Our
outstanding long-term debt and other fixed obligations could have important
consequences. For example, they could:
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              limit
      our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our future capital
      expenditures, acquisitions, working capital or other
    purposes;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              require
      us to dedicate a material portion of our operating cash flow to fund lease
      payments and interest payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing funds
      available for other purposes; and
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
               
            
          
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              limit
      our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility
      in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including
      reacting to the current economic
slowdown.
            
          
    
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          - 12
- -
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Although
we have historically been able to generate sufficient cash flow from our
operations to pay our debt and other fixed obligations as they become due, we
cannot ensure we will be able to do so in the future. If we fail to do so, our
business could be harmed.
     
    Alaska is
required to comply with specific financial covenants in certain agreements. We
cannot be certain that Alaska will be able to comply with these covenants or
provisions or that these requirements will not limit our ability to finance our
future operations or capital needs.
    
    See
“Liquidity and Capital Resources” on page 44 for more detailed information about
our obligations and commitments.
    
    Our
continuing obligation to fund our traditional defined-benefit pension plans
could negatively affect our ability to compete in the marketplace.
    
    Our
defined-benefit pension plan assets are subject to market risk. If market
returns are poor in the future, as they were in 2008, any future obligation to
make additional cash contributions in accordance with the Pension Protection Act
of 2006 could increase and harm our liquidity. Poor market returns also lead to
higher pension expense in our statement of operations. The calculation of
pension expense is dependent on many assumptions that are more fully described
in “Critical Accounting Estimates” on page 42 and Note 8 to our
consolidated financial statements.
    
    Increases
in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage would harm our business,
financial condition and results of operations.
     
    Aviation
insurers could increase their premiums in the event of additional terrorist
attacks, hijackings, airline accidents or other events adversely affecting the
airline industry. Furthermore, the full hull and liability war risk insurance
provided by the government is currently mandated through August 31, 2010.
Although the government may again extend the deadline for providing such
coverage, we cannot be certain that any extension will occur, or if it does, for
how long the extension will last. It is expected that, should the government
stop providing such coverage to the airline industry, the premiums charged by
aviation insurers for this coverage will be substantially higher than the
premiums currently charged by the government and the coverage will be much more
limited, including smaller aggregate limits and shorter cancellation periods.
Significant increases in insurance premiums would adversely affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations.
    
    SAFETY,
COMPLIANCE AND OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
    
    Our
reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an airline
accident or incident.
     
    An
accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve a significant
loss of life and result in a loss of confidence in our airlines by the flying
public. We could experience significant potential claims from injured passengers
and surviving relatives, as well as costs for the repair or replacement of a
damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service.
We maintain liability insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent
with industry practice. However, the amount of such coverage may not be adequate
to fully cover all claims and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from
an accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our
related insurance coverage would harm our business and financial results.
Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured and even if
it does not involve one of our airlines, could cause a public perception that
our airlines or the equipment they fly is less safe or reliable than other
transportation alternatives, which would harm our business.
    
    Changes
in government regulation imposing additional requirements and restrictions on
our operations or on the airports at which we operate could increase our
operating costs and result in service delays and disruptions.
     
    Airlines
are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements, both domestically
and internationally, that involve significant compliance costs. In the last
several years, Congress has passed laws, and the U.S. DOT, the TSA and the FAA
have issued regulations that have required significant expenditures relating to
the maintenance and operation of airlines. Similarly, many aspects of an
airline’s operations are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and
local laws protecting the environment.
     
    Because
of significantly higher security and other costs incurred by airports since
September 11, 2001, many airports have increased their rates and charges to
air carriers. Additional laws, regulations, taxes, and airport rates and charges
have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost
of airline operations or reduce the demand for air travel. Although lawmakers
may impose these additional fees and view them as “pass-through” costs, we
believe that a higher total ticket price will influence consumer purchase and
travel decisions and may result in an overall decline in passenger traffic,
which would harm our business.
    
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          - 13
- -
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    If
we do not maintain the privacy and security of customer-related information, we
could damage our reputation, incur substantial additional costs and become
subject to litigation.
    
    We
receive, retain, and transmit certain personal information about our
customers.  In addition, our online operations at alaskaair.com depend
on the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks,
including credit card information.  A compromise of our security
systems or those of other business partners that results in our customers’
personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely
affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations,
results of operations, financial position and liquidity, and could result in
litigation against us or the imposition of penalties.  In addition, a
security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources
related to the security of information systems and could result in a disruption
of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.
    
    Additionally,
the use of individually identifiable data by our business and our business
partners is regulated at the international, federal and state
levels.  Privacy and information security laws and regulations change,
and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems
changes and the development of new administrative processes.
    
    The
airline industry continues to face potential security concerns and related
costs.
    
    The
terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and their aftermath negatively
affected the airline industry, including our company. Additional terrorist
attacks, the fear of such attacks or other hostilities involving the U.S. could
have a further significant negative effect on the airline industry, including
us, and could:
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              significantly
      reduce passenger traffic and yields as a result of a potentially dramatic
      drop in demand for air travel;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              significantly
      increase security and insurance
costs;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              make
      war risk or other insurance unavailable or extremely
      expensive;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              increase
      fuel costs and the volatility of fuel
prices;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              increase
      costs from airport shutdowns, flight cancellations and delays resulting
      from security breaches and perceived safety threats;
  and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              result
      in a grounding of commercial air traffic by the
  FAA.
            
          
    
     
    The
occurrence of any of these events would harm our business, financial condition
and results of operations.
     
    Our
operations are often affected by factors beyond our control, including delays,
cancellations, and other conditions, which could harm our financial condition
and results of operations.
     
    Like
other airlines, our operations often are affected by delays, cancellations and
other conditions caused by factors largely beyond our control.
    
    A local
dam in the Kent Valley near the Seattle-Tacoma International Airport is partly
compromised.  Many of the services necessary for the operation of our
airlines are located in the valley, e.g., fuel supply, power, catering,
reservations call centers, etc.  If the area experiences heavy rains,
flooding could occur and our operations could be disrupted.  The Army
Corps of Engineers estimates that the dam will be repaired within three to five
years.  We have contingency plans in place and are continuing to
monitor the situation.  
    
    Other
conditions that might impact our operations include:
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              air
      traffic congestion at airports or other air traffic control
      problems;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              adverse
      weather conditions;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              increased
      security measures or breaches in
security;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              international
      or domestic conflicts or terrorist activity;
and
            
          
    
    
    
      

            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              other
      changes in business conditions.
            
          
    
    
    Due to
our geographic area of operations, we believe a large portion of our operation
is more susceptible to adverse weather conditions than that of many of our
competitors. A general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any
of the above-mentioned factors could harm our business, financial condition and
results of operations.
    
    STRATEGY
    
    We
depend on a few key markets to be successful.
     
    Our
strategy is to focus on serving a few key markets, including Seattle, Portland,
Los Angeles and Anchorage. A significant portion of our flights occurs to and
from our Seattle hub. In 2009, passengers to and from Seattle accounted for 64%
of our total passengers.
    
    We
believe that concentrating our service offerings in this way allows us to
maximize our investment in personnel, aircraft, and ground facilities, as well
as to gain greater advantage from sales and marketing efforts in those regions.
As a result, we remain highly dependent on our key markets. Our business could
be harmed by any circumstances causing a reduction in demand for air
transportation in our key markets. An increase in competition in our key markets
could also cause us to reduce fares or take other competitive measures that
could
harm our business, financial condition and results of
operations.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          - 14
- -
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    Our
failure to successfully meet cost reduction goals at both Alaska and Horizon
could harm our business.
     
    We
continue to strive toward aggressive cost-reduction goals that are an important
part of our business strategy of offering the best value to passengers through
competitive fares while achieving acceptable profit margins and return on
capital. However, with our capacity reductions in 2009 and increased costs in
areas such as wages and benefits, we experienced a 10% increase in non-fuel unit
cost at Alaska and a 6% increase at Horizon. If we are unable to reduce our
non-fuel unit costs over the long-term and achieve targeted profitability, we
will likely not be able to grow our business in the future and therefore our
financial results may suffer.
     
    We
rely on third-party vendors for certain critical activities.
     
    We have
historically relied on outside vendors for a variety of services and functions
critical to our business, including airframe and engine maintenance, ground
handling, fueling, computer reservation system hosting and software maintenance.
As part of our cost-reduction efforts, our reliance on outside vendors has
increased and may continue to do so in the future. In recent years, Alaska has
subcontracted its heavy aircraft maintenance, fleet service, facilities
maintenance, and ground handling services at certain airports, including
Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, to outside vendors.
    
    Our use
of outside vendors increases our exposure to several risks. In the event that
one or more vendors goes into bankruptcy, ceases operation or fails to perform
as promised, replacement services may not be readily available at competitive
rates, or at all. Although we believe that our vendor oversight and quality
control is among the best in the industry, if one of our vendors fails to
perform adequately we may experience increased costs, delays, maintenance
issues, safety issues or negative public perception of our airline. Vendor
bankruptcies, unionization, regulatory compliance issues or significant changes
in the competitive marketplace among suppliers could adversely affect vendor
services or force Alaska to renegotiate existing agreements on less favorable
terms. These events could result in disruptions in Alaska’s operations or
increases in its cost structure.
    
    We
are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft and
parts.
     
    Alaska is
dependent on Boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft
parts. Horizon is similarly dependent on Bombardier. Additionally, each carrier
is dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines. As a result, we are more
vulnerable to any problems associated with the supply of those aircraft and
parts, including design defects, mechanical problems, contractual performance by
the manufacturers, or adverse perception by the public that would result in
customer avoidance or in actions by the FAA resulting in an inability to operate
our aircraft.
    
    INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
    
    We
rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business, and a failure of
these systems or by their operators could harm our business.
     
    We depend
on automated systems to operate our business, including our airline reservation
system, our telecommunication systems, our website, our maintenance systems, our
kiosk check-in terminals, and other systems. Substantially all of our tickets
are issued to passengers as electronic tickets and the majority of our customers
check in using our website or our airport kiosks. We depend on our reservation
system to be able to issue, track and accept these electronic tickets. In order
for our operations to work efficiently, our website, reservation system, and
check-in systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain
secure information, and deliver important flight information. Substantial or
repeated website, reservations system or telecommunication systems failures
could reduce the attractiveness of our services and cause our customers to
purchase tickets from another airline. In addition, we rely on other automated
systems for crew scheduling, flight dispatch, and other operational needs.
Disruption in, changes to, or a breach of these systems could result in the loss
of important data, an increase of our expenses and a possible temporary
cessation of our operations.
    
    BRAND
AND REPUTATION
    
    A
significant increase in labor costs or change in key personnel could adversely
affect our business and results of operations.
     
    We
compete against the major U.S. airlines and other businesses for labor in many
highly skilled positions. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified
employees at a reasonable cost, or if we lose the services of key personnel, we
may be unable to grow or sustain our business. In such case, our operating
results and business prospects could be harmed. We may also have difficulty
replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss
of any of these individuals could harm our business.
     
    Labor
costs are a significant component of our total expenses, accounting for
approximately 34% and 25% of our total operating expenses in 2009 and 2008,
respectively. As of December 31, 2009, labor unions represented
approximately 82% of Alaska’s and 46% of Horizon’s employees. Each of our
represented employee groups has a separate collective bargaining agreement, and
could make demands that would increase our operating expenses and adversely
affect our financial performance if we agree to them. Although we have been
successful in negotiating new contracts or extending existing
contracts with a number of workgroups recently, future uncertainty around open
contracts could be a distraction to many employees, reduce employee engagement
in our business and divert management’s attention from other projects and
issues.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          - 15
- -
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    Horizon
is currently in negotiations with the IBT on a new pilot agreement and has been
since the contract first became amendable in September 2006. In January 2010,
Horizon and the IBT filed separate requests for assistance from the NMB in our
ongoing negotiations.  Factoring in pay rates and productivity
measures, we believe our pilot unit costs at Horizon are among the highest in
the industry for the size of aircraft we operate.
    
    We
rely on partner airlines for codeshare and frequent flyer marketing
arrangements.
     
    Alaska
and Horizon are parties to marketing agreements with a number of domestic and
international air carriers, or “partners,” including, but not limited to,
American Airlines and Delta Air Lines. These agreements provide that certain
flight segments operated by us are held out as partner “codeshare” flights and
that certain partner flights are held out for sale as Alaska codeshare flights.
In addition, the agreements generally provide that members of Alaska’s Mileage
Plan program can earn miles on or redeem miles for partner flights and vice
versa. We receive a significant amount of revenue from flights sold under
codeshare arrangements. In addition, we believe that the frequent flyer
arrangements are an important part of our Mileage Plan program. The loss of a
significant partner or certain partner flights could have a negative effect on
our revenues or the attractiveness of our Mileage Plan, which we believe is a
source of competitive advantage.
     
    
      

            
              ITEM 1B