Item 1A. Risk Factors  

        This document contains "forward-looking statements" that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty. These
statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We assume
no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments. 

        These
forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may be identified by their use of words like "plans," "seeks," "expects," "will," "should,"
"anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "believes," "likely," "targets" and other words with similar meanings. These statements may address, among other things, our strategy for growth, catastrophe
exposure management, product development, regulatory approvals, market position, expenses, financial results, litigation and reserves. We believe that these statements are based on reasonable
estimates, assumptions and plans. However, if the estimates, assumptions or plans underlying the forward-looking statements prove inaccurate or if other risks or uncertainties arise, actual results
could differ materially from those communicated in these forward-looking statements. 

        In
addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below, which apply to us as an insurer and a provider of other
financial services. These risks constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they
identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and historical trends. These cautionary statements are not
exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this document, in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or in materials incorporated therein by
reference. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. 

18






<A
NAME="page_dm3385_1_19">   Risks Relating to the Property-Liability business  

As a property and casualty insurer, we may face significant losses from catastrophes and severe weather events  


        Because of the exposure of our property and casualty business to catastrophic events, our operating results and financial condition may vary significantly from
one period to the next. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural and man-made disasters, including earthquakes, volcanoes, wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes, tropical storms and
certain types of terrorism. We may continue to incur catastrophe losses in our auto and property business in excess of those experienced in prior years, in excess of those that management projects
would be incurred based on hurricane and earthquake losses which have a one percent probability of occurring on an annual aggregate countrywide basis, and in excess of those that modelers estimate
would be incurred based on other levels of probability, in excess of the average expected level used in pricing, and in excess of our current reinsurance coverage limits. While we believe that our
natural event catastrophe management initiatives will reduce the potential magnitude of possible future natural event losses, we continue to be exposed to catastrophes that could have a material
adverse effect on operating results and financial position. For example, our historical catastrophe experience includes losses relating to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 totaling $3.4 billion, the
Northridge earthquake of 1994 totaling $2.1 billion and Hurricane Andrew in 1992 totaling $2.3 billion. We are also exposed to assessments from the California Earthquake Authority, and
various state-created catastrophe insurance facilities, and to losses that could surpass the capitalization of these facilities. Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple
catastrophes, which result in extraordinary losses or a downgrade of our debt or financial strength ratings. 


        In
addition, we are also subject to claims arising from weather events such as winter storms, rain, hail and high winds. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are largely
unpredictable. There is generally an increase in the frequency and severity of auto and property claims when severe weather conditions occur. 

The nature and level of catastrophes in any period cannot be predicted and could be material to catastrophe losses  

        Although, along with others in the industry, we use models developed by third party vendors in assessing our personal lines property exposure to catastrophe
losses that assume various conditions and probability scenarios, such models do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or accurately measure losses currently incurred. Catastrophe models,
which have been evolving since the early 1990s, use historical information about hurricanes and earthquakes and also utilize detailed information about our in-force business. While we use
this information in connection with our pricing and risk management activities, there are limitations with respect to their usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period. These limitations
are evident in significant variations in estimates between models and modelers, material increases and decreases in model results due to changes and refinements of the underlying data elements,
assumptions which lead to questionable predictive capability, and actual event conditions that have not been well understood previously and not incorporated into the models. In addition, the models
are not necessarily reflective of actual demand surge, loss adjustment expenses and the occurrence of mold losses, which are subject to wide variation by event or location. 

Impacts of catastrophes and our catastrophe management strategy may adversely affect premium growth  

        We believe that the actions we are taking to support earning an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our property business and to reduce the variability in
our earnings, while providing quality protection to our customers, will be successful over the long term, however it is possible that they will have a negative impact on near-term growth
and earnings. Homeowners premium growth rates and 

19




 


retention
could be more adversely impacted than we expect by adjustments to our business structure, size and underwriting practices in markets with significant catastrophe risk exposure. In addition,
due to the diminished potential for cross-selling opportunities, new business growth in our auto lines could be lower than expected. Efforts to recover the costs of our catastrophe reinsurance program
through rate increases may not be entirely successful due to resistance by regulators or non-renewal decisions by policyholders resulting in a lower amount of insurance in force. 

Unanticipated increases in the severity or frequency of claims may adversely affect our profitability  

        Changes in the severity or frequency of claims may affect the profitability of our Allstate Protection segment. Changes in bodily injury claim severity are driven
primarily by inflation in the medical sector of
the economy. Changes in auto physical damage claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices. Changes in homeowner's claim severity are
driven by inflation in the construction industry, in building materials and in home furnishings and by other economic and environmental factors, including increased demand for services and supplies in
areas affected by hurricanes. However, changes in the level of the severity of claims are not limited to the effects of inflation and demand surge in these various sectors of the economy. Increases in
claim severity can arise from unexpected events that are inherently difficult to predict. Examples of such events include a decision in 2001 by the Georgia Supreme Court that diminished value coverage
was included in auto policies under Georgia law and the emergence of mold-related homeowners losses in the state of Texas during 2002. Although from time to time we pursue various loss
management initiatives in the Allstate Protection segment in order to mitigate future increases in claim severity, there can be no assurances that these initiatives will successfully identify or
reduce the effect of future increases in claim severity. 

        Our
Allstate Protection segment has experienced a decline in claim frequency. Other participants in the industry have also experienced a similar decline. We believe that this decrease
may be attributable to a combination of several factors, including increases in the level of policy deductibles chosen by policyholders, improvements in car and road safety, aging of the population,
increased driver education and restrictions for new drivers, decreases in policyholder submission of claims for minor losses, and our implementation of improved underwriting criteria. The favorable
level of claim frequency we have experienced may not be sustainable over the longer term. A significant increase in claim frequency could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial
condition. 

Actual claims incurred may exceed current reserves established for claims  

        Recorded claim reserves in the Property-Liability business are based on our best estimates of losses, both reported and incurred but not reported ("IBNR"), after
considering known facts and interpretations of circumstances. Internal factors are considered including our experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, historical trends involving claim payment
patterns, pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix, and contractual terms. External factors are also considered which include but are not limited to law changes, court
decisions, changes to regulatory requirements and economic conditions. Because reserves are estimates of the unpaid portion of losses that have occurred, including IBNR losses, the establishment of
appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded reserves and such variance may
adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 

Predicting claim expense relating to asbestos and other environmental and discontinued lines is inherently uncertain  


        The process of estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines liabilities is complicated by complex legal issues concerning, among other things,
the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether those losses are, or were ever intended to be, covered; and 

20




 


whether
losses could be recoverable through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Asbestos-related bankruptcies and other asbestos litigations are complex,
lengthy proceedings that involve substantial uncertainty for insurers. While we believe that improved actuarial techniques and databases have assisted in estimating asbestos, environmental and other
discontinued lines net loss reserves, these refinements may subsequently prove to be inadequate indicators of the extent of probable loss. Consequently, ultimate net losses from these discontinued
lines could materially exceed established loss reserves and expected recoveries and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, operating results and financial position. 

Regulation limiting rate increases and requiring us to underwrite business and participate in loss sharing arrangements may decrease our profitability  


        From time to time, political events and positions affect the insurance market, including efforts to suppress rates to a level that may not allow us to reach
targeted levels of profitability. For example, when Allstate Protection's loss ratio compares favorably to that of the industry, state regulatory authorities may impose rate rollbacks, require us to
pay premium refunds to policyholders, or resist or delay our efforts to raise rates even if the property and casualty industry generally is not experiencing regulatory resistance to rate increases.
Such resistance affects our ability in all product lines to obtain approval for rate changes that may be required to achieve targeted levels of profitability and returns on equity. Our ability to
afford reinsurance required to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be dependent upon the ability to adjust rates for its cost. 


        In
addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property-liability insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans,
reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations or require the insurer to offer coverage to all consumers, often restricting an insurer's ability to charge the price it might otherwise
charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity, or as the facilities
recognize a financial deficit, they may, in turn have the ability to assess participating insurers, adversely affecting our results of operations. Laws and regulations of many states also limit an
insurer's ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Additionally, certain states require
insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These
funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors. 

The potential benefits of implementing our sophisticated risk segmentation process ("Tiered Pricing") may not be fully realized  

        We believe that Tiered Pricing and underwriting (including Strategic Risk Management which, in some situations, considers information that is obtained from credit
reports among other factors) has allowed us to be more competitive and operate more profitably. However, because many of our competitors have adopted underwriting criteria and tiered pricing models
similar to those we use and because other competitors may follow suit, we may lose our competitive advantage. Further, the use of insurance scoring from information that is obtained from credit
reports as a factor in underwriting and pricing has at times been challenged by regulators, legislators, litigants and special interest groups in various states. Competitive pressures could also force
us to modify our Tiered Pricing model. Furthermore, because we have been using Tiered Pricing only for the last several years, we can not be assured that Tiered Pricing models will accurately reflect
the level of losses that we will ultimately incur from the mix of new business generated. Moreover, to the extent that competitive pressures limit our ability to attract new customers, our expectation
that the amount of business written using Tiered Pricing will increase may not be realized. 

21




 


Allstate Protection may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business  

        The property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive
underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. A
downturn in the profitability cycle of the property and casualty business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Risks Relating to the Allstate Financial Segment  

Changes in underwriting and actual experience could materially affect profitability  

        Our product pricing includes long-term assumptions regarding investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency and operating costs and expenses of
the business. Management establishes target returns for each product based upon these factors and the average amount of capital that the company must hold to support in-force contracts,
satisfy rating agencies and meet regulatory requirements. We monitor and manage our pricing and overall sales mix to achieve target returns on a portfolio basis. Profitability from new business
emerges over a period of years depending on the nature and life of the product and is subject to variability as actual results may differ from pricing assumptions. 

        Our
profitability in this segment depends on the adequacy of investment margins, the management of market and credit risks associated with investments, the sufficiency of premiums and
contract charges to cover mortality and morbidity benefits, the persistency of policies to ensure recovery of acquisition expenses, and the management of operating costs and expenses within
anticipated pricing allowances. Legislation and regulation of the insurance marketplace and products could also affect our profitability. 

Changes in reserve estimates may reduce profitability  

        Reserve for life-contingent contract benefits is computed on the basis of long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment yields,
mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses. We periodically review the adequacy of these reserves on an aggregate basis and if future experience differs significantly from assumptions,
adjustments to reserves may be required which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 

Changes in market interest rates may lead to a significant decrease in the sales and profitability of spread-based products  

        Our ability to manage the Allstate Financial investment margin for spread-based products, such as fixed annuities and institutional products, is dependent upon
maintaining profitable spreads between investment yields and interest crediting rates. When market interest rates decrease or remain at relatively low levels, proceeds from investments that have
matured, prepaid or been sold may be reinvested at lower yields, reducing investment margin. Lowering interest crediting rates in such an environment can offset decreases in investment yield on some
products. However, these changes could be limited by market conditions, regulatory or contractual minimum rate guarantees on many contracts and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in
asset yields. Decreases in the rates offered on products in the financial segment could make those products less attractive, leading to lower sales and/or changes in the level of surrenders and
withdrawals for these products. Non-parallel shifts in interest rates, such as increases in short-term rates without accompanying increases in medium-and long-term
rates, can influence customer demand for fixed annuities, which could impact the level and profitability of new customer deposits. Increases in market interest rates can also have negative effects on
Allstate Financial, for example by increasing the attractiveness of other investments to our customers, which can lead to higher surrenders at a time when the segment's fixed income investment asset
values are lower as a result of the increase in interest rates. For certain products, principally fixed annuity and interest-sensitive 

22




 


life
products, the earned rate on assets could lag behind rising market yields. We may react to market conditions by increasing crediting rates, which could narrow spreads. Unanticipated surrenders
could result in deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC") unlocking or affect the recoverability of DAC and thereby increase expenses and reduce profitability. 


Changes in estimates of profitability on interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment products may have an adverse effect on results through increased
amortization of DAC  

        DAC related to interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts is amortized in proportion to actual historical gross profits and estimated
future gross profits ("EGP") over the estimated lives of the contracts. Assumptions underlying EGP, including those relating to margins from mortality, investment margin, contract administration,
surrender and other contract charges, are updated from time to time in order to reflect actual and expected experience and its potential effect on the valuation of DAC. Updates to these assumptions
could result in DAC unlocking, which in turn could adversely affect our net income and financial condition. 

A loss of key product distribution relationships could materially affect sales  

        Certain products in the Allstate Financial segment are distributed under agreements with other members of the financial services industry that are not affiliated
with us. Termination of one or more of these agreements due to, for example, a change in control of one of these distributors, could have a detrimental effect on the sales of Allstate Financial. 


Changes in tax laws may decrease sales and profitability of products  

        Under current federal and state income tax law, certain products we offer, primarily life insurance and annuities, receive favorable tax treatment. This favorable
treatment may give certain of our products a competitive advantage over noninsurance products. Congress from time to time considers legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable
policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life
insurance and annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of
our products making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender
of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning. 

Risks Relating to the Insurance Industry  

Our future results are dependent in part on our ability to successfully operate in an insurance industry that is highly competitive  


        The insurance industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include other insurers and, because many of our products include a savings or investment component,
securities firms, investment advisers, mutual funds, banks and other financial institutions. Many of our competitors have well-established national reputations and market similar products.
Because of the competitive nature of the insurance industry, including competition for producers such as exclusive and independent agents, there can be no assurance that we will continue to
effectively compete with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. The ability of banks to
affiliate with insurers may have a material adverse effect on all of our product lines by substantially increasing the number, size and financial strength of potential competitors. Furthermore,
certain competitors operate using a mutual insurance company structure and therefore, may have dissimilar profitability and return targets. 

23






<A
NAME="page_do3385_1_24">   We are subject to market risk and declines in credit quality  

        We are subject to market risk, the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in equity, interest, commodity or foreign currency exchange rates and
prices. Our primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates and equity prices and, to a lesser degree, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. In addition, we
are subject to potential declines in credit quality, either related to issues specific to certain industries or to a weakening in the economy in general. For additional information on market risk, see
the "Market Risk" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis. 

        A
decline in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our investment income as we invest cash in new investments that may yield less than the portfolio's average rate. In a
declining interest rate environment, borrowers may prepay or redeem securities more quickly than expected as they seek to refinance at lower rates. A decline could also lead us to purchase
longer-term assets in order to obtain adequate investment yields resulting in a duration gap when compared to the duration of liabilities. An increase in market interest rates could have
an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment portfolio. Increases in
interest rates also may lead to an increase in policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals that generally would be funded at a time when fair values of fixed income securities are lower. A declining
equity market could also cause the investments in our pension plans to decrease or decreasing interest rates could cause the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans or the accumulated
benefit obligation of our other post retirement benefit plans to increase, either or both resulting in a decrease in the funded status of the plans and a reduction of shareholders equity, increases in
pension expense and increases in required contributions to the pension plans. A decline in the quality of our investment portfolio as a result of adverse economic conditions or otherwise could cause
additional realized losses on securities, including realized losses relating to derivative strategies. 

Concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects  

        The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our
investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations and financial position. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that
have a negative impact on any particular industry, group
of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than diversified. 

We may suffer losses from litigation  

        As is typical for a large company, we are involved in a substantial amount of litigation, including class action litigation challenging a range of company
practices and coverage provided by our insurance products. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts currently reserved
and may be material to our operating results or cash flows for a particular quarter or annual period. For a description of our current legal proceedings, see Note 13 of the consolidated
financial statements. 

        In
some circumstances, we may be able to collect on third-party insurance that we carry to recover all or part of the amounts that we may be required to pay in judgments, settlements and
litigation expenses. However, we may not be able to resolve issues concerning the availability, if any, or the ability to collect such insurance concurrently with the underlying litigation.
Consequently, the timing of the resolution of a particular piece of litigation and the determination of our insurance recovery with respect 

24




 


to
that litigation may not coincide and, therefore, may be reflected in our financial statements in different fiscal quarters. 

We are subject to extensive regulation and potential further restrictive regulation may increase our operating costs and limit our growth  

        As insurance companies, broker-dealers, investment advisers and/or investment companies, many of our subsidiaries are subject to extensive laws and regulations.
These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Moreover, they are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, including state insurance regulators,
state securities administrators, the SEC, the National Association of Securities Dealers, the U.S. Department of Justice, and state attorneys general, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive
latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another
regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator's or enforcement
authority's interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may, even absent any particular regulator's or enforcement
authority's interpretation of a legal issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our
practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business.
Furthermore, in some cases, these laws and regulations are designed to protect or benefit the interests of a specific constituency rather than a range of constituencies. For example, state insurance
laws and regulations are generally intended to protect or benefit purchasers or users of insurance products, not holders of securities issued by The Allstate Corporation. In many respects, these laws
and regulations limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business. 


        In
recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under public scrutiny and members of Congress have discussed proposals to provide for optional federal chartering of
insurance companies. We can make no assurances regarding the potential impact of state or federal measures that may change the nature or scope of insurance regulation. 

Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business  

        Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain
continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as are currently available. Our ability to afford reinsurance required to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated
areas may be dependent upon the ability to adjust rates for its cost. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider
sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our exposure risk, reduce our insurance writings, or develop or seek other alternatives. 

Reinsurance subjects us to the credit risk of our reinsurers and may not be adequate to protect us against losses arising from ceded insurance  


        The collectibility of reinsurance recoverables is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including whether insured losses meet the qualifying
conditions of the reinsurance contract and whether reinsurers, or their affiliates, have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty or contract.
Our inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 

25





 


The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of claim losses we incur and the value of our investment portfolio  

        The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response
to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and losses from declines in the equity markets and from interest rate changes in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, and result in loss
of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets
and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. We seek to mitigate the potential impact of terrorism on our commercial mortgage portfolio by limiting geographical
concentrations in key metropolitan areas and by requiring terrorism insurance to the extent that it is commercially available. Additionally, in the event that terrorist acts occur, both Allstate
Protection and Allstate Financial could be adversely affected, depending on the nature of the event. 

Any decrease in our financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position  

        Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and generally have an effect on an insurance
company's business. On an ongoing basis, rating agencies review the financial performance and condition of insurers and could downgrade or change the outlook on an insurer's ratings due to, for
example, a change in an insurer's statutory capital; a change in a rating agency's determination of the amount of risk-adjusted capital required to maintain a particular rating; an
increase in the perceived risk of an insurer's investment portfolio; a reduced confidence in management or a host of other considerations that may or may not be under the insurer's control. The
insurance financial strength ratings of both Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate Life Insurance Company are A+, AA and Aa2 from A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's and Moody's,
respectively. Several other affiliates have been assigned their own financial strength ratings by one or more rating agencies. Because all of these ratings are subject to continuous review, the
retention of these ratings cannot be assured. A multiple level downgrade in any of these ratings could have a material adverse effect on our sales, our competitiveness, the marketability of our
product offerings, and our liquidity, operating results and financial condition. 

Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements  

        Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly,
we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards from time to time issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB. It is possible that future changes we are required to
adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse
effect on our results and financial condition. For a description of potential changes in accounting standards that could affect us currently, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial
statements. 

The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends may affect our liquidity and ability to meet our obligations  

        The Allstate Corporation is a holding company with no significant operations. The principal asset is the stock of its subsidiaries. State insurance regulatory
authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, as described in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. In addition, competitive pressures generally require the
subsidiaries to maintain insurance financial strength ratings. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements affect the ability of the subsidiaries to make dividend payments. Limits on the
ability of the subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect our liquidity, 

26




 


including
our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, service our debt and complete share repurchase programs in the timeframe expected. 

The occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively  


        In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems
could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing,
transmission, storage and retrieval systems. In the event that a significant number of our managers could be unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business
could be severely compromised. 

Item 1B