.  Risk FactorsIn addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below, which apply to us as an insurer, investor and a provider of other products and financial services. These cautionary statements should be considered carefully together with other factors discussed elsewhere in this document, in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) or in materials incorporated therein by reference.Risks Relating to the Property-Liability businessAs a property and casualty insurer, we may face significant losses from catastrophes and severe weather eventsBecause of the exposure of our property and casualty business to catastrophic events, Allstate Protection’s operating results and financial condition may vary significantly from one period to the next. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural and man-made events, including earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, wildfires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, tropical storms, terrorism or industrial accidents. We may incur catastrophe losses in our auto and property business in excess of: (1) those experienced in prior years, (2) the average expected level used in pricing, (3) our current reinsurance coverage limits, or (4) loss estimates from external hurricane and earthquake models at various levels of probability. Despite our catastrophe management programs, we are exposed to catastrophes that could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition. For example, our historical catastrophe experience includes losses relating to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 totaling $3.6 billion, the Northridge earthquake of 1994 totaling $2.1 billion and Hurricane Andrew in 1992 totaling $2.3 billion. We are also exposed to assessments from the California Earthquake Authority and various state-created insurance facilities, and to losses that could surpass the capitalization of these facilities. Although we have historically financed the settlement of catastrophes from operating cash flows, including very large catastrophes that had complicated issues resulting in settlement delays, our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which result in extraordinary losses or a downgrade of our debt or financial strength ratings.In addition, we are subject to claims arising from weather events such as winter storms, rain, hail and high winds. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are largely unpredictable. There is generally an increase in the frequency and severity of auto and property claims when severe weather conditions occur.The nature and level of catastrophes in any period cannot be predicted and could be material to our operating results and financial condition  Along with others in the insurance industry, Allstate Protection uses models developed by third party vendors as well as our own historic data in assessing our property insurance exposure to catastrophe losses. These models assume various conditions and probability scenarios. Such models do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or accurately measure losses currently incurred. Catastrophe models, which have been evolving since the early 1990s, use historical information and scientific research about hurricanes and earthquakes and also utilize detailed information about our in-force business. While we use this information in connection with our pricing and risk management activities, there are limitations with respect to its usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period as actual catastrophic events vary considerably. Other limitations are evident in significant variations in estimates between models, material increases and decreases in results due to model changes and refinements of the underlying 15data elements and actual conditions that are not yet well understood or may not be properly incorporated into the models.Impacts of catastrophes and our catastrophe management strategy may adversely affect premium growthDue to Allstate Protection’s catastrophe risk management efforts, the size of our homeowners business has been negatively impacted in the past and may be negatively impacted if we take further actions. Homeowners premium growth rates and retention could be adversely impacted by adjustments to our business structure, size and underwriting practices in markets with significant severe weather and catastrophe risk exposure.  Unexpected increases in the frequency or severity of claims may adversely affect our operating results and financial conditionUnexpected changes in the frequency or severity of claims will affect the profitability of our Allstate Protection segment. Our Allstate Protection segment may experience volatility in claim frequency from time to time, and short-term trends may not continue over the longer term. Changes in auto claim frequency may result from changes in mix of business, miles driven or other macroeconomic factors. A significant increase in claim frequency could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.Changes in bodily injury claim severity are impacted by inflation in medical costs, litigation trends and precedents, regulation and the overall safety of automobile travel. Changes in auto physical damage claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in the cost to repair vehicles, including parts and labor rates, the mix of vehicles that are declared total losses, model year mix as well as used car values. Changes in homeowners claim severity are driven by inflation in the construction industry, building materials and home furnishings, changes in the mix of loss type, and by other economic and environmental factors, including short-term supply imbalances for services and supplies in areas affected by catastrophes. Increases in claim severity can arise from unexpected events that are inherently difficult to predict. Although we pursue various loss management initiatives in the Allstate Protection segment in order to mitigate future increases in claim severity, there can be no assurances that these initiatives will successfully identify or reduce the effect of future increases in claim severity.A regulatory environment that requires rate increases to be approved and that can dictate underwriting practices and mandate participation in loss sharing arrangements may adversely affect our operating results and financial conditionFrom time to time, political events and positions affect the insurance market, including efforts to suppress rates to a level that may not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. For example, if Allstate Protection’s loss ratio compares favorably to that of the industry, state or provincial regulatory authorities may impose rate rollbacks, require us to pay premium refunds to policyholders, or challenge or delay our efforts to raise rates even if the property and casualty industry generally is not experiencing regulatory challenges to rate increases. Such challenges affect our ability to obtain approval for rate changes that may be required to achieve targeted levels of profitability and returns on equity. We are pursuing auto insurance rate increases in 2016. Our ability to purchase reinsurance required to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be dependent upon the ability to adjust rates for its cost. If we are unsuccessful, our operating results could be negatively impacted.    In addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property-liability insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations or require the insurer to offer coverage to all consumers, often restricting an insurer’s ability to charge the price it might otherwise charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity, or as the facilities recognize a financial deficit, they may in turn have the ability to assess participating insurers, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer’s ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors.The potential benefits of our sophisticated risk segmentation process may not be fully realizedWe believe that our sophisticated pricing and underwriting methods has allowed us to offer competitive pricing and operate profitably. However, because many of our competitors seek to adopt underwriting criteria and sophisticated pricing models similar to those we use, our competitive advantage could decline or be lost. Further, the use of increasingly sophisticated pricing models is being reviewed by regulators and special interest groups. Competitive pressures could also force us to modify our sophisticated pricing models. Furthermore, we cannot be assured that these sophisticated pricing models will accurately reflect the level of losses that we will ultimately incur.Changes in the level of price competition and the use of underwriting standards in the property and casualty business may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition   The property and casualty market has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, 16more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. A downturn in the profitability of the property and casualty business could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition.Actual claims incurred may exceed current reserves established for claims and may adversely affect our operating results and financial conditionRecorded claim reserves in the Property-Liability business are based on our best estimates of losses, both reported and incurred but not reported claims reserves (“IBNR”), after considering known facts and interpretations of circumstances. Internal factors are considered including our experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, historical trends involving claim payment patterns, pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix and contractual terms. External factors are also considered, such as court decisions; changes in law; litigation imposing unintended coverage and benefits such as disallowing the use of benefit payment schedules, requiring coverage designed to cover losses that occur in a single policy period to losses that develop continuously over multiple policy periods or requiring the availability of multiple limits; regulatory requirements and economic conditions. Because reserves are estimates of the unpaid portion of losses that have occurred, including IBNR losses, the establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded reserves and such variance may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition as the reserves are reestimated.Predicting claim costs relating to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines is inherently uncertain and may have a material effect on our operating results and financial conditionThe process of estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines liabilities is complicated by complex legal issues concerning, among other things, the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether losses are covered, or were ever intended to be covered, and whether losses could be recoverable through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Asbestos-related bankruptcies and other asbestos litigation are complex, lengthy proceedings that involve substantial uncertainty for insurers. Actuarial techniques and databases used in estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines net loss reserves may prove to be inadequate indicators of the extent of probable loss. Ultimate net losses from these discontinued lines could materially exceed established loss reserves and expected recoveries and have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition as the reserves are reestimated.Risks Relating to the Allstate Financial SegmentChanges in underwriting and actual experience could materially affect profitability and financial conditionOur product pricing includes long-term assumptions regarding investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency and operating costs and expenses of the business. We establish target returns for each product based upon these factors and the average amount of capital that we must hold to support in-force contracts taking into account rating agencies and regulatory requirements. We monitor and manage our pricing and overall sales mix to achieve target new business returns on a portfolio basis, which could result in the discontinuation or de-emphasis of products and a decline in sales. Profitability from new business emerges over a period of years depending on the nature and life of the product and is subject to variability as actual results may differ from pricing assumptions. Additionally, many of our products have fixed or guaranteed terms that limit our ability to increase revenues or reduce benefits, including credited interest, once the product has been issued.Our profitability in this segment depends on the sufficiency of premiums and contract charges to cover mortality and morbidity benefits, the persistency of policies to ensure recovery of acquisition expenses, the adequacy of investment spreads, the management of market and credit risks associated with investments, and the management of operating costs and expenses within anticipated pricing allowances. Legislation and regulation of the insurance marketplace and products could also affect our profitability and financial condition.Changes in reserve estimates may adversely affect our operating results The reserve for life-contingent contract benefits payable under insurance policies, including traditional life insurance, life-contingent immediate annuities and voluntary accident and health insurance products, is computed on the basis of long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment yields, mortality, morbidity, persistency and expenses. Mortality and morbidity may continue to improve in the future from current levels, due to medical advancements that have resulted in policyholders living longer than anticipated. We periodically review the adequacy of these reserves on an aggregate basis and if future experience differs significantly from assumptions, adjustments to reserves and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”) may be required that could have a material effect on our operating results.Changes in market interest rates may lead to a significant decrease in the profitability of spread-based productsOur ability to manage the in-force Allstate Financial spread-based products, such as fixed annuities, is dependent upon maintaining profitable spreads between investment yields and interest crediting rates. When market interest rates decrease or remain at relatively low levels, proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold may be reinvested at 17lower yields, reducing investment spread. Lowering interest crediting rates on some products in such an environment can partially offset decreases in investment yield. However, these changes could be limited by regulatory minimum rates or contractual minimum rate guarantees on many contracts and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in investment yields. Increases in market interest rates can have negative effects on Allstate Financial, for example by increasing the attractiveness of other investments to our customers, which can lead to increased surrenders at a time when the segment’s fixed income investment asset values are lower as a result of the increase in interest rates. This could lead to the sale of fixed income securities at a loss. In addition, changes in market interest rates impact the valuation of derivatives embedded in equity-indexed annuity contracts that are not hedged, which could lead to volatility in net income.Changes in estimates of profitability on interest-sensitive life products may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition through the amortization of DAC DAC related to interest-sensitive life contracts is amortized in proportion to actual historical gross profits and estimated future gross profits (“EGP”) over the estimated lives of the contracts. The principal assumptions for determining the amount of EGP are mortality, persistency, expenses, investment returns, including capital gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to contractholders, and the effects of any hedges. Updates to these assumptions (commonly referred to as “DAC unlocking”) could result in accelerated amortization of DAC and thereby adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.Reducing our concentration in spread-based business and exiting certain distribution channels may adversely affect reported resultsWe have been reducing our concentration in spread-based business since 2008 and discontinued offering fixed annuities effective January 1, 2014. We also exited the independent master brokerage agencies and structured settlement annuity brokers distribution channels in 2013 and sold Lincoln Benefit Life Company (“LBL”) on April 1, 2014. The reduction in sales of these products has and will continue to reduce investment portfolio levels. It may also affect the settlement of contract benefits including forced sales of assets with unrealized capital losses, and affect goodwill impairment testing and insurance reserves deficiency testing. We continue to assess additional utilization of outsourcing arrangements and if we are unsuccessful, our cost structure may be less competitive.Changes in tax laws may decrease sales and profitability of products and adversely affect our financial conditionUnder current federal and state income tax law, certain products we provide, primarily life insurance, receive beneficial tax treatment. This favorable treatment may give certain of our products a competitive advantage over noninsurance products. Congress and various state legislatures from time to time consider legislation that would reduce or eliminate the beneficial policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance. Congress and various state legislatures also consider proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of our products making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material effect on our profitability and financial condition or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning.We may not be able to mitigate the capital impact associated with life insurance statutory reserving requirements, potentially resulting in a need to increase prices, reduce sales of certain life products, and/or accept a return on equity below original levels assumed in pricingTo support statutory reserves for certain life insurance products, we currently utilize reinsurance and captive reserve financing solutions for financing a portion of our statutory reserve requirements deemed to be non-economic. As we continue to underwrite certain life business, we expect to have additional financing needs to mitigate the impact of these reserve requirements. If we do not obtain additional financing as a result of market conditions or otherwise, this could require us to increase prices, reduce our sales of certain life products, and/or result in a return on equity below original levels assumed in pricing.A decline in Lincoln Benefit Life Company’s financial strength ratings may adversely affect our results of operationsWe reinsure life insurance and payout annuity business from LBL. A decline in LBL’s financial strength ratings could lead to an increase in policy lapses. This could adversely affect our results of operations by decreasing future premiums.Risks Relating to InvestmentsWe are subject to market risk from changes in interest rates, equity prices, currency exchange rates and declines in credit quality which may adversely affect investment income and cause realized and unrealized lossesWe continually reevaluate our investment management strategies since we are subject to the risk of loss due to adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices or currency exchange rates. Adverse changes in these rates, spreads and prices may occur due to changes in monetary policy and the economic climate, the liquidity of a market or market segment, investor return 18expectations and/or risk tolerance, insolvency or financial distress of key market makers or participants, or changes in market perceptions of credit worthiness. We are also subject to market risk related to investments in real estate, loans and securities collateralized by real estate. Some of our investment strategies target individual investments with unique risks that are not highly correlated with broad market risks. Although we expect these investments to increase total portfolio returns over time, their performance may vary from and under-perform relative to the market in some periods.We are subject to risks associated with potential declines in credit quality related to specific issuers or specific industries and a general weakening in the economy, which are typically reflected through credit spreads. Credit spread is the additional yield on fixed income securities and loans above the risk-free rate (typically referenced as the yield on U.S. Treasury securities) that market participants require to compensate them for assuming credit, liquidity and/or prepayment risks. Credit spreads vary (i.e. increase or decrease) in response to the market’s perception of risk and liquidity in a specific issuer or specific sector and are influenced by the credit ratings, and the reliability of those ratings, published by external rating agencies. Although we have the ability to use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks, the effectiveness of such instruments varies with liquidity and other conditions that may impact derivative and bond markets. Adverse economic conditions or other factors could cause declines in the quality and valuation of our investment portfolio that would result in realized and unrealized losses. The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular issuer, industry, collateral type, group of related industries, geographic sector or risk type could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations and financial condition. A decline in market interest rates or credit spreads could have an adverse effect on our investment income as we invest cash in new investments that may earn less than the portfolio’s average yield. In a declining interest rate environment, borrowers may prepay or redeem securities more quickly than expected as they seek to refinance at lower rates. A decline could also lead us to purchase longer-term or riskier assets in order to obtain adequate investment yields resulting in a duration gap when compared to the duration of liabilities. Alternatively, longer-term assets may be sold and reinvested in shorter-term assets in anticipation of rising interest rates. An increase in market interest rates or credit spreads could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment portfolio. Declining equity markets could also cause the investments in our pension plans to decrease and decreasing interest rates could cause the funding target and the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans or the accumulated benefit obligation of our other postretirement benefit plans to increase, either or both resulting in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plans and a reduction in the accumulated other comprehensive income component of shareholders’ equity, increases in pension and other postretirement benefit expense and increases in required contributions to the pension plans.The amount and timing of net investment income from our performance-based long-term investments, including private equity, real estate, infrastructure, timber and agriculture-related assets, tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. The timing of distributions depends on particular events, schedules for making distributions, and cash needs related to the investments. As a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Significant volatility could adversely impact net investment income and returns on these investments. In addition, the valuation of such investments may be impacted by market downturns or volatility.  The determination of the amount of realized capital losses recorded for impairments of our investments is subjective and could materially impact our operating results and financial conditionThe determination of the amount of realized capital losses recorded for impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our ongoing evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly and reflect changes in other-than-temporary impairments in our results of operations. The assessment of whether other-than-temporary impairments have occurred is based on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Our conclusions on such assessments are judgmental and include assumptions and projections of future cash flows and price recovery which may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change. Furthermore, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments and additional impairments may need to be recorded in the future.  The determination of the fair value of our fixed income and equity securities is subjective and could materially impact our operating results and financial conditionIn determining fair values we principally use the market approach which utilizes market transaction data for the same or similar instruments. The degree of judgment involved in determining fair values is inversely related to the availability of market observable information. The fair value of assets may differ from the actual amount received upon sale of an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Moreover, the use of different valuation assumptions may have a material effect on the assets’ fair values. The difference between amortized cost or cost and fair value, net of deferred income taxes and related life and annuity DAC, deferred sales inducement costs and reserves for life-contingent contract benefits, is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders’ equity. Changing market conditions could materially affect the determination of the fair value of securities and unrealized net capital gains and losses could vary significantly. 19Risks Relating to the Insurance IndustryOur future growth and profitability are dependent in part on our ability to successfully operate in an insurance industry that is highly competitiveThe insurance industry is highly competitive. Many of our primary insurance competitors have well-established national reputations and market similar products.  We have invested in growth strategies by utilizing unique customer value propositions for each of our brands, differentiated product offerings and distinctive advertising campaigns. If we are unsuccessful in generating new business and retaining a sufficient number of customers, our ability to increase premiums written could be impacted. In addition, if we experience unexpected increases in underlying costs (such as the frequency or severity of claims costs), it could result in decreases in profitability and lead to price increases which could negatively impact our competitive position.We are also investing in telematics and broadening the value proposition for the connected consumer. If we are not effective in anticipating the impact on our business of changing technology, including automotive technology, our ability to successfully operate may be impaired. Also, telematics devices used have been identified as a potential means for an unauthorized person to connect with a vehicle’s computer system resulting in theft or damage, which could affect our ability to successfully use these technologies. Other potential technological changes, such as driverless cars or technologies that facilitate ride or home sharing, could disrupt the demand for our products from current customers, create coverage issues or impact the frequency or severity of losses, and we may not be able to respond effectively.Because of the competitive nature of the insurance industry, there can be no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressures will not have a material effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. This includes competition for producers such as exclusive and independent agents and their licensed sales professionals. In the event we are unable to attract and retain these producers, they are unable to attract and retain their licensed sales professionals, or they are unable to attract and retain customers for our products, growth and retention could be materially affected. Furthermore, certain competitors operate using a mutual insurance company structure and therefore may have dissimilar profitability and return targets. Additionally, many of our voluntary benefits employer contracts are renewed annually. There is a risk that employers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could by renewing coverage with us. These competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these products, as well as our ability to sell our products in the future. Our ability to successfully operate may also be impaired if we are not effective in developing the talent and skills of our human resources, attracting and assimilating new executive talent into our organization, or deploying human resource talent consistently with our business goals.Difficult conditions in the global economy and capital markets could adversely affect our business and operating results and these conditions may not improve in the near futureAs with most businesses, we believe difficult conditions in the global economy and capital markets, such as significant negative macroeconomic trends, including relatively high and sustained unemployment, reduced consumer spending, low economic growth, lower residential and commercial real estate prices, substantial increases in delinquencies on consumer debt, including defaults on home mortgages, the relatively low availability of credit and ineffective central bank monetary policies could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets or financial asset classes could adversely affect our investment portfolio. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Although the disruption in the global financial markets has moderated, not all global financial markets are functioning normally, and the rate of recovery from the U.S. recession has been below historic averages. In the years since the financial crisis, the central banks of most developed countries have pursued fairly similar, and highly accommodative, monetary policies. As the U.S. Federal Reserve, through the Federal Open Market Committee, raises interest rates and as global monetary policies diverge, it may result in higher volatility and less certainty in capital markets.General economic conditions could adversely affect us by impacting consumer behavior and pressuring investment results. Consumer behavior changes could include decreased demand for our products. For example, if consumers purchase fewer automobiles, sales of auto insurance may decline. Also, if consumers become more cost conscious, they may choose lower levels of auto and homeowners insurance. In addition, holders of interest-sensitive life insurance and annuity products may engage in an elevated level of discretionary withdrawals of contractholder funds. Investment results could be adversely affected as deteriorating financial and business conditions affect the issuers of the securities in the investment portfolio.20Losses from legal and regulatory actions may be material to our operating results, cash flows and financial conditionWe are involved in various legal actions, including class action litigation challenging a range of company practices and coverage provided by our insurance products, some of which involve claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts. We are also involved in various regulatory actions and inquiries, including market conduct exams by state insurance regulatory agencies. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts currently accrued, if any, and may be material to our operating results or cash flows for a particular quarter or annual period and to our financial condition. The aggregate estimate of the range of reasonably possible loss in excess of the amount accrued, if any, disclosed in Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements is not an indication of expected loss, if any. Actual results may vary significantly from the current estimate.We are subject to extensive regulation and potential further restrictive regulation may increase our operating costs and limit our growthAs insurance companies, broker-dealers, investment advisers, investment companies and other types of companies, many of our subsidiaries are subject to extensive laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Changes may sometimes lead to additional expenses, increased legal exposure, and additional limits on our ability to grow or to achieve targeted profitability. Moreover, laws and regulations are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude, including state insurance regulators; state securities administrators; state attorneys general and federal agencies including the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the U.S. Department of Justice and the National Labor Relations Board. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another’s interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may, even absent any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow or to improve the profitability of our business. Furthermore, in some cases, these laws and regulations are designed to protect or benefit the interests of a specific constituency rather than a range of constituencies. For example, state insurance laws and regulations are generally intended to protect or benefit purchasers or users of insurance products, not holders of securities, which is generally the jurisdiction of the SEC, issued by The Allstate Corporation. In many respects, these laws and regulations may limit our ability to grow or to improve the profitability of our business.Regulatory reforms, and the more stringent application of existing regulations, may make it more expensive for us to conduct our business  The federal government has enacted comprehensive regulatory reforms for financial services entities. As part of a larger effort to strengthen the regulation of the financial services market, certain reforms are applicable to the insurance industry, including the Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) established within the U.S. Department of the Treasury.  In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under public scrutiny, members of Congress have discussed proposals to provide for federal chartering of insurance companies, and the FIO and Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) were established. In the future, if the FSOC were to determine that Allstate is a “systemically important” nonbank financial company, Allstate would be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. We can make no assurances regarding the potential impact of state or federal measures that may change the nature or scope of insurance and financial regulation. In addition, the U.S. Department of Labor recently proposed fiduciary standards for financial advisors.These regulatory reforms and any additional legislative change or regulatory requirements imposed upon us in connection with the federal government’s regulatory reform of the financial services industry or arising from reform related to the international regulatory capital framework for financial services firms, and any more stringent enforcement of existing regulations by federal authorities, may make it more expensive for us to conduct our business, or limit our ability to grow or to achieve profitability. Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new businessOur personal lines catastrophe reinsurance program was designed, utilizing our risk management methodology, to address our exposure to catastrophes nationwide. Market conditions beyond our control impact the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as is currently available. For example, our ability to afford reinsurance to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be dependent upon our ability to adjust premium rates for its cost, and there are no assurances that the terms and rates for our current reinsurance program will continue to be available in future years. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our catastrophe exposure, reduce our insurance writings, or develop or seek other alternatives.21Reinsurance subjects us to risks of our reinsurers and may not be adequate to protect us against losses arising from ceded insurance, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial conditionThe collectability of reinsurance recoverables is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including changes in market conditions, whether insured losses meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance contract and whether reinsurers, or their affiliates, have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty or contract. Additionally, reinsurance placed in the catastrophe bond market may not provide the same level of coverage as reinsurance placed in the traditional market and any disruption, volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets may decrease our ability to access such market on terms favorable to us or at all. We also have exposure associated with the Michigan Catastrophic Claim Association (“MCCA”), a mandatory insurance coverage and reinsurance indemnification mechanism for personal injury protection losses and certain qualifying allocated loss adjustment expenses that provides indemnification for losses over a retention level that increases every other MCCA fiscal year, which is operating with a deficit, and the New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty Association (“PLIGA”) that provides reimbursement to insurers for certain qualifying medical benefits portion of personal injury protection coverage paid in excess of certain levels. Our reinsurance recoverable from the MCCA and PLIGA was $4.66 billion and $500 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2015. Our inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition.A downgrade in our financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position, the marketability of our product offerings, our liquidity, access to and cost of borrowing, operating results and financial conditionFinancial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and generally have an effect on an insurance company’s business. On an ongoing basis, rating agencies review our financial performance and condition and could downgrade or change the outlook on our ratings due to, for example, a change in one of our insurance company’s statutory capital; a change in a rating agency’s determination of the amount of risk-adjusted capital required to maintain a particular rating; an increase in the perceived risk of our investment portfolio; a reduced confidence in management or our business strategy; as well as a number of other considerations that may or may not be under our control. The insurance financial strength ratings of Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate Life Insurance Company and The Allstate Corporation’s senior debt ratings from A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s are subject to continuous review, and the retention of current ratings cannot be assured. A downgrade in any of these ratings could have a material effect on our sales, our competitiveness, the marketability of our product offerings, our liquidity, access to and cost of borrowing, operating results and financial condition.Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable termsIn periods of extreme volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, liquidity and credit capacity may be severely restricted. In such circumstances, our ability to obtain capital to fund operating expenses, financing costs, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited, and the cost of any such capital may be significant. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as lenders’ perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms.The failure in cyber or other information security, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation, additional costs and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectivelyWe depend heavily upon computer systems and mathematical algorithms and data to perform necessary business functions. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, we are increasingly exposed to the risk that our computer systems could be subject to cyber-attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other global companies, we have experienced threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. Events such as these could jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information (including personal information of our customers, claimants or employees) processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to expand our internet and mobile strategies, develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers, and build and maintain an integrated digital enterprise. We are continually enhancing our cyber and other information security in order to remain secure against emerging threats, together with increasing our ability to detect system compromise and recover should a cyber-attack or unauthorized access occur. However, there can be no assurance that such events will not take place with adverse consequences to our business, operating results and financial condition.22The occurrence of a disaster, such as a natural catastrophe, pandemic, industrial accident, blackout, terrorist attack, war, cyber-attack, computer virus, insider threat, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised.Third parties to whom we outsource certain of our functions are also subject to the risks outlined above. The Company also has business process and information technology operations in Canada, Northern Ireland and India and is subject to operating, regulatory and political risks in those countries. Any of these may result in our incurring substantial costs and other negative consequences, including a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.A large scale pandemic, the continued threat or incurrence of terrorism or military actions may have an adverse effect on the level of claim losses we incur, the value of our investment portfolio, our competitive position, marketability of product offerings, liquidity and operating resultsA large scale pandemic, the continued threat or incurrence of terrorism, within the U.S. and abroad, or military and other actions, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and losses in our investment portfolio from declines in the equity markets and from interest rate changes in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere, and result in loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by a large scale pandemic or the continued threat of terrorism. Additionally, a large scale pandemic or terrorist act could have a material effect on the sales, profitability, competitiveness, marketability of product offerings, liquidity, and operating results.We may be required to recognize impairments in the value of our goodwill, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial conditionGoodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for acquiring businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually, or more frequently if conditions warrant, by comparing the carrying value (attributed equity) of a reporting unit to its estimated fair value. Market declines or other events impacting the fair value of a reporting unit could result in a goodwill impairment, resulting in a charge to income. Such a charge could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditionOur financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, which are periodically revised, interpreted and/or expanded. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new guidance or interpretations, or could be subject to existing guidance as we enter into new transactions, which may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition that is either unexpected or has a greater impact than expected. For a description of changes in accounting standards that are currently pending and, if known, our estimates of their expected impact, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.The realization of deferred tax assets is subject to uncertaintyThe realization of our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, if any, is based on our assumption that we will be able to fully utilize the deductions that are ultimately recognized for tax purposes. However, actual results may differ from our assumptions if adequate levels of taxable income are not attained.The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends may affect our liquidity and ability to meet our obligationsThe Allstate Corporation is a holding company with no significant operations. The principal assets are the stock of its subsidiaries and the holding company’s directly held short-term cash portfolio, and the liabilities include debt and pension and other postretirement benefit obligations related to Allstate Insurance Company employees. State insurance regulatory authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, as described in Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements. The limitations are based on statutory income and surplus. In addition, competitive pressures generally require the subsidiaries to maintain insurance financial strength ratings. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements affect the ability of the subsidiaries to make dividend payments. Limits on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect holding company liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, service our debt, or complete share repurchase programs in the timeframe expected.Management views enterprise economic capital as a combination of statutory surplus and invested assets at the parent holding company level. Deterioration in statutory surplus or earnings, from developments such as catastrophe losses, or changes in market conditions or interest rates, could adversely affect holding company liquidity by impacting the amount of dividends from our subsidiaries or the utilization of invested assets at the holding company to increase statutory surplus or for other corporate purposes.23Our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock is subject to limitations under terms of certain of our securitiesSubject to certain limited exceptions, during any dividend period while our preferred stock is outstanding, unless the full preferred stock dividends for the preceding dividend period have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside and any declared but unpaid preferred stock dividends for any prior period have been paid, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on common stock. If and when dividends on preferred stock have not been declared and paid in full for at least six quarterly dividend periods, the authorized number of directors then constituting the board of directors will be increased by two additional directors, to be elected by the holders of preferred stock together with the holders of all other affected classes and series of voting parity stock, voting as a single class, subject to certain conditions.  We are prohibited from declaring or paying dividends on preferred stock if we fail to meet specified capital adequacy, net income or shareholders’ equity levels. The prohibition is subject to an exception permitting us to declare dividends out of the net proceeds of common stock issued by us during the 90 days prior to the date of declaration even if we fail to meet such levels.  The terms of the outstanding subordinated debentures also prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our common or preferred stock or redeeming, purchasing, acquiring, or making liquidation payments on our common stock or preferred stock if we have elected to defer interest payments on the subordinated debentures, subject to certain limited exceptions.Changing climate and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, profitability or cash flowsClimate change, solar flares, eruption of volcanoes, El Niño, La Niña and other events to the extent any one of these produces changes in weather patterns, could affect the frequency or severity of weather events and wildfires, the affordability and availability of homeowners insurance, the results for our Allstate Protection segment and the value of our investment portfolio. For example, some meteorological experts have predicted El Niño patterns to be experienced in early 2016 resulting in the U.S. experiencing a pattern of tropical storms in the Southern and Western U.S. and winter weather beginning in the middle of the year in some locations.Loss of key vendor relationships or failure of a vendor to protect our data, confidential and proprietary information, or personal information of our customers, claimants or employees could affect our operationsWe rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the U.S. and abroad. These include, for example, vendors of computer hardware and software and vendors and/or outsourcing of services such as claim adjustment services, human resource benefits management services and investment management services. In the event that one or more of our vendors suffers a bankruptcy or otherwise becomes unable to continue to provide products or services, or fails to protect our data, confidential and proprietary information, or personal information of our customers, claimants or employees, we may suffer operational impairments and financial losses.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claimsWe rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect intellectual property and to determine its scope, validity or enforceability, which could divert significant resources and prove unsuccessful. An inability to protect intellectual property could have a material effect on our business.  We may be subject to claims by third parties for patent, trademark or copyright infringement or breach of usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability. If third party providers or we are found to have infringed a third-party intellectual property right, either of us could be enjoined from providing certain products or services or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around. Any of these scenarios could have a material effect on our business and results of operations.Item 1B