Item 1A, which is incorporated
    herein by reference.


 



    Silicon
    Systems Group Segment


 


    Applied’s Silicon Systems Group segment develops,
    manufactures and sells a wide range of manufacturing equipment
    used to fabricate semiconductor chips, also referred to as
    integrated circuits (ICs). Most chips are built on a silicon
    wafer base and include a variety of circuit components, such as
    transistors and other devices, that are connected by multiple
    layers of wiring (interconnects). Applied offers systems that
    perform most of the primary processes used in chip fabrication
    including atomic layer deposition (ALD), chemical vapor
    deposition (CVD), physical vapor deposition (PVD),
    electrochemical deposition (ECD) etch, rapid thermal processing
    (RTP), chemical mechanical planarization (CMP), wet cleaning and
    wafer metrology and inspection, as well as systems that etch,
    measure and inspect circuit patterns on masks used in the
    photolithography process. Applied’s semiconductor
    manufacturing systems are used by integrated device
    manufacturers and foundries to build and package memory, logic
    and other types of chips.


 


    Most chips currently are fabricated using 65 nanometer (nm) and
    larger linewidth dimensions, although Applied is also working
    with customers on leading-edge technology for advanced nodes
    using 45nm, 32nm and smaller dimensions. To build a chip, the
    transistors, capacitors and other circuit components are first
    created on the surface of the wafer by performing a series of
    processes to deposit and selectively remove portions of
    successive film layers. Similar processes are then used to build
    the layers of wiring structures on the wafer. As the density of
    the circuit components increases to enable greater computing
    capability in the same or smaller physical area, the complexity
    of building the chip also increases, necessitating more process
    steps to form smaller structures and more intricate wiring
    schemes. A typical, simplified process sequence for building the
    wiring or interconnect portion of a chip involves initially
    depositing a dielectric film layer onto the base layer of
    circuit components using a CVD system. An etch system is then
    used to create openings and patterns in the dielectric layer. To
    form the metal interconnects, these openings and patterns are
    subsequently filled with conducting material using PVD and ECD
    technologies. A CMP step then polishes the wafer to achieve a
    flat surface. Additional deposition, etch and CMP steps are then
    performed to build up the layers needed to complete the
    interconnection of the circuit elements. Advanced chip designs
    require more than 500 steps involving these and other processes
    to complete the manufacturing cycle.


 


    While some device manufacturers are still using aluminum as the
    main conducting material for building interconnect structures,
    most have transitioned to copper. Copper has lower resistance
    than aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller area.
    Applied is the leading supplier of systems for manufacturing
    copper-based chips, including equipment for depositing, etching
    and planarizing copper interconnect layers. Complementing the
    transition to copper to improve chip speed is the use of low
    dielectric constant (low k) films to replace silicon





    
    1



Table of Contents





    dioxide material as the insulator between the copper wiring
    structures. Applied also leads the industry in providing systems
    for depositing low k dielectric films.


 


    The transistor is another key area of the chip where
    semiconductor manufacturers are improving their device designs
    to enhance speed. Applied has the industry’s largest
    portfolio of technically advanced products for building smaller
    and faster transistors. One method of enhancing chip performance
    is strain engineering, a technique that stretches or compresses
    the space between atoms, allowing electrical current to flow
    more quickly. Multiple strain films are typically used in
    advanced devices since they have an additive effect on
    increasing transistor speed. Applied has a comprehensive
    portfolio of systems to enable these applications using CVD and
    epitaxial deposition technologies.


 


    Major chipmakers have announced that they will be integrating
    new high dielectric constant (high-k) and metal materials and
    processes in their transistor gate structures to increase chip
    performance and reduce power consumption. Applied has a
    comprehensive portfolio of fully characterized processes for
    building these
    high-k/metal
    gates. These solutions include an integrated dielectric gate
    stack tool that combines four critical processes in a single
    system, a portfolio of metallization technologies using ALD and
    PVD, and an innovative high temperature etch system.


 


    As new consumer products demand higher performance in a smaller
    space, a new type of chip packaging is emerging, known as
    three-dimensional (3D) ICs. Providing greater functionality in a
    smaller footprint, 3DICs stack multiple chips together and
    electrically interconnect them using deep holes, called
    through-silicon via (TSV) structures. In fiscal 2010, Applied
    acquired Semitool, Inc., a leading supplier of ECD and wafer
    surface preparation equipment used by chip packaging companies.
    Applied now has the industry’s most comprehensive line of
    production-proven systems and processes required for the
    majority of advanced packaging manufacturing steps, including
    etch, CVD, PVD, ECD, wafer cleaning and CMP systems. Applied is
    leading efforts to enable the adoption of packaging technology,
    working with consortiums and other equipment suppliers to lower
    customers’ implementation costs.


 


    Most of Applied’s semiconductor equipment products are
    single-wafer systems with multiple process chambers attached to
    a base platform. This enables each wafer to be processed
    separately in its own environment, allowing precise process
    control, while the system’s multiple chambers enable
    simultaneous, high productivity manufacturing. Applied sells
    most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems on four basic
    platforms: the
    Centura®,

    the
    Endura®,

    the
    Producer®

    and the
    Vantage®.

    These platforms support ALD, CVD, PVD, etch and RTP technologies.


 


    Over time, the semiconductor industry has migrated to
    increasingly larger wafers to build chips. The predominant or
    common wafer size used today for volume production of advanced
    chips is 300 millimeter (mm), or
    12-inch,
    wafers. Applied offers a comprehensive range of 300mm systems.
    Applied also offers earlier-generation 200mm systems, as well as
    products and services to support all of its systems, which are
    reported under its Applied Global Services segment.


 


    The following summarizes Applied’s portfolio of products
    and their associated process technology areas reported under its
    Silicon Systems Group segment.


 



    Deposition


 


    Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During
    deposition, layers of dielectric (an insulator), barrier, or
    electrically conductive (typically metal) films are deposited or
    grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to
    perform four types of deposition: ALD, CVD, ECD and PVD. In
    addition, Applied’s RTP systems can be used to perform
    certain types of dielectric deposition.


 



    Atomic
    Layer Deposition


 


    ALD is an advanced technology in which atoms are deposited one
    layer at a time to build chip structures. This technology
    enables customers to fabricate thin films of either conducting
    or insulating material with uniform coverage in
    sub-nanometer
    sized structures. Applied offers ALD chambers for depositing
    tungsten and high-k/metal gate films. In 2010, the Company
    introduced its Applied Endura iLB PVD/ALD system, an advancement
    in ALD technology that





    
    2



Table of Contents





    enables customers to shrink the contact structures to increase
    signal speeds in 22nm and beyond logic and memory devices.


 



    Chemical
    Vapor Deposition


 


    CVD is used to deposit dielectric and metal films on a wafer.
    During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material
    to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film
    of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be silicon oxide,
    single-crystal epitaxial silicon, amorphous silicon, silicon
    nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings, low k dielectric
    (for highly efficient insulating materials), aluminum, titanium,
    titanium nitride, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or
    silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and
    technologies:


 


    The Applied Producer CVD platform — This
    high-throughput platform features
    Twin-Chamber®

    modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up
    to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer
    platform, giving it a simultaneous processing capacity of six
    wafers. Many dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this
    platform. The highest productivity model of this system is the
    Applied Producer GT, which has achieved rapid customer
    acceptance due to its fast wafer handling performance and
    compact design.


 


    Low k Dielectric Films — Low k dielectric
    materials are used in copper-based chip designs to further
    improve interconnect speed. Using conventional CVD equipment,
    the Applied Producer Black
    Diamond®

    family of low k systems provides customers with a proven,
    cost-effective way to integrate a variety of low k films into
    advanced interconnect structures. To further increase the
    performance of the complete multi-layer dielectric structure,
    Applied offers a line of
    BLOKtm

    (barrier low k) films deposited with the Producer system.


 


    Lithography-Enabling Solutions — Applied offers
    several technologies on the Producer system to help chipmakers
    extend their current 193nm lithography tools, including a line
    of Applied
    APF®

    (advanced patterning film) films and Applied
    DARC®

    (dielectric anti-reflective coating) films. Together, they
    provide a film stack with the precise dimensional control and
    compatibility needed to cost-effectively pattern nano-scale
    features without additional integration complexity.


 


    Gap Fill Films — There are many steps during
    the chipmaking process in which very small and deep, or high
    aspect ratio (HAR), structures must be filled void-free with a
    dielectric film. Many of these applications include the
    deposition of silicon oxides in substrate isolation structures,
    contacts and interconnects. The Applied Centura Ultima
    HDP-CVD®

    (high-density plasma CVD) and Applied Producer
    HARPtm

    (high aspect ratio process) systems have been workhorses for the
    industry, enabling customers to scale their devices to the 32nm
    node. In 2010, the Company introduced its breakthrough Applied
    Producer
    Eternatm

    FCVD system. Targeted for 20nm and below chips, the Eterna
    system delivers a liquid-like film that flows freely into
    virtually any structure to provide void-free dielectric fill.


 


    Strain Engineering Solutions — The Applied
    Producer HARP system also plays a key role in enhancing
    transistor performance, enabling chipmakers to boost chip speed
    by depositing strain-inducing dielectric films. Offering the
    industry’s first integrated stress nitride deposition and
    ultraviolet (UV) cure solution, the Applied Producer Celera CVD
    delivers benchmark levels of high-stress tensile silicon nitride
    films. The Company also offers the Applied Centura SiNgenPlus
    low pressure CVD system for low temperature silicon nitride
    films. Used together, and in conjunction with silicon germanium
    (SiGe) films using Applied’s epitaxial deposition
    technologies, these systems can provide additive strain
    engineering benefits.


 


    Through-Silicon Via Films — In 2010, Applied
    expanded its offerings for TSV fabrication, with two new CVD
    systems. The Applied Producer
    InViatm

    system uses a unique process to deposit the critical oxide liner
    film layer in HAR TSV structures, enabling robust electrical
    isolation of the TSV, which is vital for reliable device
    performance. For applications where higher temperatures can
    damage the manufacturing process, the Applied Producer
    Avilatm

    CVD system allows high quality dielectric film deposition at
    stable substrate temperatures at a low cost of ownership.


 


    Epitaxial Deposition — Epitaxial silicon
    (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform
    crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base
    for the device circuitry. Epi technology is used in an
    increasing number of integrated circuit devices in both the
    wafer substrate and transistor areas of a chip to





    
    3



Table of Contents





    enhance speed. The Applied Centura Epi system integrates pre-
    and post-epi processes on the same system to improve film
    quality and reduce production costs. This system is also used
    for SiGe epi technology, which reduces power usage and increases
    speed in certain types of advanced chips. For emerging
    transistor designs, the Applied Centura RP Epi system offers
    selective epi processes to enable faster transistor switching
    through strain engineering techniques.


 


    Polysilicon Deposition — Polysilicon is a type
    of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure
    within the integrated circuit device. The Applied Centura
    Polygentm

    LPCVD system is a single-wafer, multi-chamber product that
    deposits thin polysilicon films at high temperatures to create
    transistor gate structures. To address the challenging
    requirements of shrinking gate dimensions, the Applied Centura
    DPN Gate Stack system integrates chambers for decoupled plasma
    nitridation (DPN), RTP anneal and polysilicon deposition on one
    platform to enable superior film quality and material properties.


 


    Tungsten Deposition — Tungsten is used in the
    contact area of a chip that connects the transistors to the
    wiring circuitry. In aluminum-based devices, tungsten is also
    used in the structures that connect the multiple layers of
    aluminum wiring. Applied has two products for depositing
    tungsten: the Applied Centura
    Sprint®

    Tungsten CVD system for 90nm and below devices and the Applied
    Centura iSprint ALD/CVD system for more advanced applications.
    The latter product combines ALD technology and CVD chambers on
    the same platform.


 



    Electrochemical
    Deposition


 


    Electrochemical deposition is a process by which metal atoms
    from a chemical fluid (an electrolyte) are deposited on the
    surface of an immersed object. Its main application in the
    semiconductor industry is to deposit copper in interconnect
    wiring structures. This process step follows the deposition of
    barrier and seed layers which prevent the copper from
    contaminating other areas of the device and improve the adhesion
    of the copper filmenable electrodeposition to occur. As a result
    of Applied’s acquisition of Semitool, the Company offers
    two ECD systems: the Applied Raider ECD for electroplating
    advanced chip interconnect structures, and the Applied Raider S
    ECD for advanced TSV packaging applications.


 



    Physical
    Vapor Deposition


 


    PVD is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as
    argon, are accelerated toward a metal target. The metal atoms
    chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer.
    The Applied Endura PVD system offers a broad range of advanced
    metal deposition processes, including aluminum, aluminum alloys,
    cobalt,
    titanium/titanium
    nitride, tantalum/tantalum nitride, tungsten/tungsten nitride,
    nickel, vanadium and copper. In 2010, Applied celebrated the
    20th year of its Applied Endura platform, the most successful
    metal deposition system in the history of the semiconductor
    industry.


 


    The Applied Endura CuBS (copper barrier/seed) PVD system is
    widely used by customers for fabricating copper-based chips.
    Using PVD technology, the system deposits a tantalum-based
    barrier film that prevents copper material from entering other
    areas of the device and then a copper seed layer that primes the
    structure for the subsequent deposition of bulk copper. The
    Applied Endura CuBS RFX PVD system extends cost-effective CuBS
    technology to the 22nm node. In 2010, Applied introduced two new
    PVD systems for creating the leading-edge chips needed for the
    next generation of smart devices. The Applied Endura
    Avenirtm

    RF PVD system sequentially deposits the multiple metal film
    layers that form the heart of the industry’s new, faster,
    metal gate transistors. The Applied Endura iLB PVD/ALD system
    advances the
    state-of-the-art
    in ALD technology, enabling customers to shrink their
    speed-critical contact structures for 20nm and below devices.


 


    Applied’s Endura system has also been used for many years
    in back-end applications to deposit metal layers before final
    bump or wire bonding packaging steps are performed. The Applied
    Chargertm

    UBM PVD system, which is specifically designed for under-bump
    metallization (UBM) and other back-end processes, features
    linear architecture for reliable performance and very high
    productivity at a low cost per wafer.




    
    4



Table of Contents






    Etch


 


    Etching is used many times throughout the integrated circuit
    manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the
    surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated
    with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist. A
    photolithography process then projects the circuit pattern onto
    the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by
    the photoresist pattern. Applied offers a wide range of systems
    for etching dielectric, metal and silicon films to meet the
    requirements of
    sub-100nm
    processing.


 


    Applied’s Producer Etch system utilizes the Company’s
    Twin-Chamber Producer platform to target cost-sensitive
    dielectric etch applications. To address advanced dielectric
    etch applications, the Applied Centura
    Enabler®

    E5 Etch system enables customers to create the 40:1 HAR contact
    features that are critical to the yield and performance of 32nm
    and below DRAM and Flash memory chips. The Applied Centura
    Carinatm

    system uses innovative, high-temperature technology to deliver
    the etch capability essential for scaling logic and memory
    devices with high-k/metal gates at 45nm and below.


 


    In 2010, the Company introduced its Applied Centura
    AdvantEdgetm

    Mesatm

    silicon etch system for fabricating nano-scale circuit features
    with angstrom-level precision. The system has achieved strong
    acceptance by customers, providing the critical technical
    capability needed for their next-generation devices. The Applied
    Centura
    Marianatm

    Trench Etch system provides customers with the capability to
    scale DRAM capacitors by enabling the etching of 80:1 aspect
    ratio structures. The Applied Centura
    Silviatm

    system is specifically designed for etching small, deep holes
    for TSV applications in 3D-ICs. For etching metals, the Applied
    Opustm

    AdvantEdge Metal Etch uses an optimized 5-chamber platform
    configuration that enables customers to extend aluminum
    interconnect technology and productivity for flash and DRAM
    memory applications.


 



    Rapid
    Thermal Processing


 


    RTP is a process in which a wafer is subjected to rapid bursts
    of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to
    more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. A rapid
    thermal process is used mainly for annealing, which modifies the
    properties of deposited films. The Applied Centura
    Radiance®Plus

    and Applied Vantage
    RadOxtm

    RTP systems feature advanced RTP technology with differing
    platform designs. While the multi-chamber Centura platform
    offers exceptional process flexibility, the streamlined
    two-chamber Vantage platform is designed for dedicated
    high-volume manufacturing. These single-wafer RTP systems are
    also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films,
    deposition steps that traditional large batch furnaces can no
    longer achieve with the necessary precision and control. With
    its proprietary radical-based oxidation process, the Applied
    Vantage RadOx system deposits high-performance transistor gate
    oxides with high productivity and low operating cost for flash
    memory applications. In 2010, the Company introduced its
    laser-based Applied Vantage
    Astratm

    millisecond anneal system for creating the sensitive nickel
    silicide transistor contact layers, enabling faster, lower
    power-consumption logic chips.


 



    Chemical
    Mechanical Planarization


 


    The CMP process removes material from a wafer to create a flat
    (planarized) surface. This process allows subsequent
    photolithography patterning steps to occur with greater accuracy
    and enables film layers to build with minimal height variations.
    Applied has led the industry with its 300mm Applied
    Reflexion®

    LK system, with features such as integrated cleaning, film
    measurement and process control capabilities. In 2010, Applied
    introduced its Applied Reflexion GT CMP system, an innovative
    dual-wafer design that increases performance while lowering
    system cost of ownership in fabricating copper interconnects.


 



    Surface
    Preparation


 


    Cleaning the surface of the wafer is critical to the adhesion
    and quality of films that are subsequently deposited in the chip
    fabrication process. Through its acquisition of Semitool,
    Applied offers several surface preparation systems. The Applied
    Raider SP can incorporate several types of cleaning methods,
    including spray, vapor, immersion, megasonics and anneal
    technologies with automated single or dual-side wafer processing
    for high volume manufacturing.




    
    5



Table of Contents






    Metrology
    and Wafer Inspection


 


    Applied offers several products for measuring features and
    inspecting defects on the wafer during various stages of the
    fabrication process. These systems enable customers to
    characterize and control critical dimension (CD) and defect
    issues, especially at advanced generation technology nodes.


 



    Critical
    Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes
    (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs)


 


    Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to
    form images of microscopic features of a patterned wafer at
    extremely high magnification. Applied’s SEM products
    provide customers with full automation, along with the high
    accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring very small CDs.
    The Applied
    VeritySEM®

    metrology system uses proprietary SEM imaging technology to
    enable precise control of the lithography and etching processes.
    The VeritySEM measures CDs at a precision of less than 0.3nm, a
    requirement for 32nm and below device production and
    incorporates automation and software advancements for
    significantly higher throughput. Applied’s OPC
    Checktm

    software for the VeritySEM system performs automated
    qualification of OPC-based (optical proximity correction) chip
    designs, significantly reducing mask (see Mask Making section
    below) verification time over conventional manual methods.


 


    DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (such as particles,
    scratches or residues) that are first located by a defect
    detection system and then classify the defects to identify their
    source. The high-throughput, fully automatic Applied
    SEMVisiontm

    Defect Analysis products enable customers to use this technology
    as an integral part of their production lines to analyze defects
    as small as 30nm with industry-leading throughput.


 



    Wafer
    Inspection


 


    Using laser-based technology, defects can be detected on
    patterned wafers (wafers with printed circuit images) as they
    move between processing steps. Defects include particles, open
    circuit lines, and shorts between lines. Incorporating key
    advances in imaging technology, the Applied
    ComPlustm

    Inspection system, for darkfield applications, detects defects
    in devices with advanced design rules with the high speed
    required for customers’ volume production lines. The
    Applied
    UVision®

    4 wafer Inspection system was introduced in 2010, enabling
    customers to detect yield-limiting defects in the critical
    patterning layers of 22nm and below logic and memory devices
    using DUV laser-based imaging technology.


 



    Mask
    Making


 


    Masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer
    microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since an imperfection
    in a mask may be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be
    virtually defect-free. Applied provides systems for etching and
    inspecting masks.


 


    In 2010, the Company introduced its Applied Centura
    Tetratm

    X Advanced Reticle Etch system, an advanced etch tool for
    fabricating leading-edge masks at 22nm and beyond.
    Applied’s Tetra line of systems has been used by mask
    makers worldwide to etch the majority of high-end masks over the
    last five years. Applied also introduced the Applied
    Aera3tm

    Mask Inspection system which allows customers to meet the most
    critical defect detection challenges of 22nm masks. Using
    sophisticated aerial imaging technology, the Aera3 allows users
    to immediately see how the pattern on the mask will appear on
    the wafer, revealing only the defects most likely to print and
    significantly reducing inspection time.


 



    Applied
    Global Services Segment


 


    The Applied Global Services segment encompasses products and
    services designed to improve the performance and productivity,
    and reduce the environmental impact of the fab operations of
    semiconductor, LCD and solar PV manufacturers. The in-depth
    expertise and best known methods of Applied’s extensive
    global support infrastructure enable Applied to continuously
    support customers’ production requirements. Trained
    customer engineers and process support engineers are deployed in
    more than a dozen countries. These engineers are usually





    
    6



Table of Contents





    located at or near customers’ fab sites and service over
    34,000 installed Applied systems, as well as non-Applied
    systems. Applied offers the following general types of services
    and products:


 


    Fab Services — Applied offers a portfolio of
    fab-wide operations services to maintain and optimize
    customers’ fabrication facilities. Applied Performance
    Services offers customers comprehensive equipment support with
    performance-based pricing and predictable costs to enable
    improved cost of ownership. Included in this program is
    Applied’s ExpertConnect remote diagnostic capability,
    providing expert support around the clock. The Company also
    offers Performance Services for solar PV manufacturing. The
    first service product of its kind for the solar industry, the
    program enables customers to quickly ramp to volume production
    while optimizing the performance, cost and output of their
    manufacturing lines.


 


    The Company also offers Performance Spares, which are spare
    parts manufactured to Applied’s strict technical
    specifications and quality standards. Applied’s Metron
    Chamber Performance Services unit provides precision cleaning,
    technology-enhanced coating and refurbishment on chamber process
    kits and components. The unit also has extensive analytical
    testing capabilities to validate and certify performance
    specifications.


 


    In addition, Applied offers a wide range of products and
    services to extend the productive life of 200mm semiconductor
    fabs, including new and remanufactured 200mm equipment, system
    enhancements and fab transition services. Designed to maximize
    productivity and lower cost of ownership, these products also
    assist customers in implementing green manufacturing solutions.
    Applied’s 200mm systems are available in a broad range of
    production-proven technologies, including CVD, PVD, etch,
    implant, RTP, CMP, epitaxy, metrology and inspection tools.


 


    Automation Systems — Applied offers automated
    factory-level and tool-level control software systems for
    semiconductor, LCD and solar cell manufacturing facilities.
    These enterprise solutions include manufacturing execution
    systems (MES) to automate the production of wafers and LCD and
    solar substrates, advanced process control systems, and
    scheduling and materials handling control systems. In 2010, the
    Company introduced its Applied
    SmartFactorytm

    MES software, a factory automation solution designed to help
    accelerate the production ramp of emerging technologies for
    solar PV, chip-packaging, and light-emitting diode (LED)
    applications.


 


    Applied also offers computerized maintenance management systems,
    performance tracking, and modeling and simulation tools for
    improving asset utilization. Applied’s E3 equipment
    engineering system solution, for example, uniquely integrates
    all critical equipment automation and process control
    components. In 2010, the Company introduced its Applied
    SmartSchedtm

    system, the semiconductor industry’s first predictive
    scheduling solution for optimizing the movement of wafers during
    the lithography process to reduce cycle time and increase tool
    utilization.


 


    Sub-Fab
    Systems — A significant component of solar PV chip
    manufacturing is the ancillary equipment such as pumps and
    abatement systems that are connected to the process chambers.
    Located outside the clean area of the facility in the
    sub-fab,
    this equipment controls fab emissions to assure clean,
    sustainable chip manufacturing.


 


    Abatement Control Systems — In 2010, the
    Company introduced its Applied
    iSYStm

    platform, the industry’s first fully-integrated abatement
    and vacuum pumping solution for controlling emissions and
    reducing energy costs in the fab. Synchronized with an Applied
    process tool, the iSYS system can deliver typical annual savings
    in power, water and gas consumption equivalent to 200MWh of
    energy compared to currently available technologies.


 



    Display
    Segment


 


    Applied’s AKT subsidiary, reported under the Display
    segment, designs, manufactures and sells equipment to fabricate
    thin film transistor LCDs for televisions, computer displays and
    other consumer-oriented electronic applications. While
    similarities exist between the technologies utilized in
    chipmaking and LCD fabrication, the most significant differences
    are in the size and composition of the substrate. Substrates
    used to manufacture LCD panels can be more than 70 times larger
    in area than 300mm wafers and are made of glass, while wafers
    are made of silicon.


 


    Applied supplies a wide range of systems that process and test
    different glass substrate sizes. For fabricating the transistor
    layer of these panels, the Company offers a line of
    plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) systems that use





    
    7



Table of Contents





    multi-chamber platform architecture to deposit dielectric and
    semiconducting films. The
    AKT-PiVottm

    55KV system employs high-productivity, cost-efficient PVD
    technology to deposit metal and transparent conductive oxide
    films on the substrate. For manufacturing the color filter of
    LCD panels, Applied offers the AKT-NEW
    ARISTOtm

    for transparent conductive oxide film deposition.


 


    To complement these systems, Applied also offers a line of
    electron beam test (EBT) systems for testing substrates during
    production for defective pixels and other imperfections.
    Featuring one of the industry’s fastest and most accurate
    pixel test technologies with the lowest operating cost, the EBT
    systems’ non-contact test technology enables the safe
    testing of high-value LCD TV panels without damaging or
    scratching the display.


 


    To meet growing consumer demand for larger, more cost-effective
    LCD TVs, LCD manufacturers have moved to increasingly
    larger-sized substrates. Applied’s latest generation (Gen)
    10 systems can process substrates sized at approximately 2.85 x
    3.05 meters, with each substrate enabling the production of up
    to six
    65-inch LCD
    TV screens. These Gen-10 systems include the AKT-90K PECVD and
    the Gen-10 AKT-90K EBT products.


 



    Energy
    and Environmental Solutions Segment


 


    The Energy and Environmental Solutions segment includes
    manufacturing solutions for the generation and conservation of
    energy. To increase the conversion efficiency and yields of
    solar PV devices, Applied offers manufacturing solutions for
    wafer-based crystalline silicon (c-Si) and glass based thin film
    applications.


 


    Applied’s portfolio of solar PV cell fabrication
    technologies has made it a leading supplier of c-Si
    manufacturing systems worldwide. Key benefits of these systems
    are high-productivity, advanced ultra-thin wafer handling, and
    extensive automation, helping customers to lower the cost per
    watt of electricity from solar PVs. Applied offers a
    comprehensive line of automated metallization and test systems
    for c-Si cell manufacturing. The Applied Baccini systems offer
    high-precision printing capability designed to increase the
    efficiency of c-Si solar cells. Applied also offers systems for
    slicing and squaring wafers from silicon ingots. The high
    productivity and performance of the Applied HCT B5 platform have
    made it the leading wire saw used by solar PV cell manufacturers
    worldwide. The Company also offers the Applied HCT Diamond
    Squarertm

    system, which uses diamond wire technology to eliminate the need
    for abrasive slurry and reduces electricity consumption.


 


    Thin film solar technologies are ideally suited for large-scale
    applications, such as utility scale solar farms and commercial
    rooftops, where space is not a constraint. The Company offers
    the Applied AKT PECVD system for depositing low temperature
    polysilicon films for thin film applications. Applied also
    offers the
    ATONtm

    in-line deposition system, a large-area platform for
    high-quality deposition and high-throughput in both c-Si and
    thin film solar PV manufacturing.


 


    Prior to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, Applied offered its
    fully-integrated
    SunFabtm

    production line for manufacturing large-size thin film panels.
    In the third quarter of fiscal 2010, Applied restructured its
    Energy and Environmental Solutions segment in response to
    adverse market conditions for thin film solar, including delays
    in utility-scale solar adoption, solar panel manufacturers’
    challenges in obtaining affordable capital, changes and
    uncertainty in government renewable energy policies, and
    competitive pressure from c-Si solar technologies. As part of
    the restructuring, Applied discontinued sales to new customers
    of its fully-integrated SunFab lines, but will offer individual
    tools for thin film solar manufacturing. Applied is supporting
    existing SunFab line customers with services, upgrades and
    capacity increases through its Applied Global Services segment
    and will continue RD&E efforts to improve thin film panel
    efficiency and high-productivity deposition.


 


    Other products offered under the Energy and Environmental
    Solutions segment include
    roll-to-roll,
    vacuum web coating systems for high-performance deposition of a
    range of films on flexible substrates for functional, aesthetic
    or optical properties. The Company’s Applied
    Topmettm

    4450, is the world’s largest and fastest
    roll-to-roll
    machine for depositing ultra-thin aluminum films for flexible
    packaging applications.


 



    Backlog


 


    Applied manufactures systems to meet demand represented by order
    backlog and customer commitments. Backlog consists of:
    (1) orders for which written authorizations have been
    accepted and assigned shipment dates are within the next
    12 months, or shipment has occurred but revenue has not
    been recognized; (2) contractual service





    
    8



Table of Contents





    revenue and maintenance fees to be earned within the next
    12 months; and (3) orders for SunFab lines that are
    anticipated to be recognized as revenue within the next
    12 months.


 


    Applied’s backlog increased from $2.7 billion at
    October 25, 2009 to $3.2 billion at October 31,
    2010. Applied’s backlog on any particular date is not
    necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding
    period. Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel
    orders prior to shipment, subject to possible cancellation
    penalties. Delays in delivery schedules
    and/or a
    reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a
    material adverse effect on Applied’s business and results
    of operations.


 



    Manufacturing,
    Raw Materials and Supplies


 


    Applied’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of
    procurement, assembly, test and integration of various
    proprietary and commercial parts, components and subassemblies
    (collectively, parts) that are used to manufacture systems.
    Manufacturing requires raw materials, including a wide variety
    of mechanical and electrical components, to be manufactured to
    Applied’s specifications. Applied uses numerous companies,
    including contract manufacturers, to supply parts and assembly
    services for the manufacture and support of its products.
    Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts
    are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not
    always possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be obtained
    from only a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers.
    Applied seeks to reduce costs and to lower the risks of
    production and service interruptions, as well as shortages of
    key parts, by: (1) selecting and qualifying alternate
    suppliers for key parts; (2) monitoring the financial
    condition of key suppliers; (3) maintaining appropriate
    inventories of key parts; (4) qualifying new parts on a
    timely basis; and (5) locating certain manufacturing
    operations in areas that are closer to suppliers and customers
    Applied is implementing a more distributed manufacturing model,
    which includes transitioning certain manufacturing and supply
    chain activities from the United States and Europe to Singapore,
    Taiwan and other countries in Asia and completing assembly of
    some systems at the customer site.


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering


 


    Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued
    development of new products. Applied’s significant
    investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E)
    has generally enabled it to deliver new products and
    technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus
    allowing customers to incorporate these products into their
    manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology
    selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers
    to design systems and processes that meet their planned
    technical and production requirements. Product development and
    engineering organizations are located primarily in the United
    States, as well as in Europe, Israel, Taiwan and China. In
    addition, Applied outsources certain RD&E activities, some
    of which are performed outside the United States, primarily in
    India. Process support and customer demonstration laboratories
    are located in the United States, China, Taiwan, Europe and
    Israel.


 


    Applied’s investments in RD&E for product development
    and engineering programs to create or improve products and
    technologies over the last three years were as follows:
    $1.1 billion (12 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2010,
    $934 million (19 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2009
    and $1.1 billion (14 percent of net sales) in fiscal
    2008. Applied has spent an average of 13 percent of net
    sales in RD&E over the last five years. In addition to
    RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains
    ongoing programs for automation control systems, materials
    research and environmental control that are applicable to its
    products.


 


    In fiscal 2010, Applied developed new technology to enable
    next-generation 22nm and below chip designs. These systems were
    designed to help customers continue their drive to pack more
    transistors in the same space using using high-k/metal gate
    technologies and double patterning processes. Applied also
    developed technology for through-silicon vias (TSVs), an
    emerging solution for interconnecting three dimensional chip
    stacks to provide better device performance, lower power
    consumption and the integration of heterogeneous devices. In the
    solar PV area, Applied continued the development of its
    precision wafering and cell manufacturing products for lowering
    the cost of producing solar-generated electricity through
    advanced crystalline silicon technology. RD&E also included
    activities to develop products that enable lower-cost production
    of solar energy, production of light emitting diode (LED)
    devices for display backlighting and general lighting, and other
    products to enable energy conservation.




    
    9



Table of Contents





    In fiscal 2009, Applied focused on developing systems for
    semiconductor customers’ new chip designs with 32nm and
    below geometries, including systems to enable faster transistors
    using strain engineering and
    high-k/metal
    gate technologies, as well as double patterning processes that
    enable customers to extend their existing 193nm lithography
    tools through additional technology generations. Applied also
    focused on developing technology for manufacturing next
    generation displays. RD&E also included activities to
    develop products that enable lower-cost production of solar
    energy and other products to enable energy conservation.


 


    In fiscal 2008, Applied focused on the development of processes
    and systems for the continued scaling of semiconductor devices.
    Applied pioneered a self-aligned double patterning approach that
    can enable 22nm and below device fabrication using conventional
    optical lithography. The Company also developed technology for
    the implementation of through-silicon vias. Efforts were also
    focused on developing the systems and technology to reduce the
    cost-per-watt
    of solar electricity.


 



    Marketing
    and Sales


 


    Net sales by geographic region, which are attributed according
    to the location of customers’ facilities, were as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2010


 


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 




 


 


    ($)


 


 


     (%)


 


 


     ($)


 


 


     (%)


 


 


     ($)


 


 


     (%)


 




 


 


    (In millions, except percentages)


 



 






    Taiwan



 


 


    2,750


 


 


 


    29


 


 


 


    1,026


 


 


 


    21


 


 


 


    1,837


 


 


 


    22


 





    Korea



 


 


    1,768


 


 


 


    19


 


 


 


    664


 


 


 


    13


 


 


 


    1,309


 


 


 


    16


 





    China



 


 


    1,557


 


 


 


    16


 


 


 


    635


 


 


 


    13


 


 


 


    780


 


 


 


    10


 





    Japan



 


 


    768


 


 


 


    8


 


 


 


    718


 


 


 


    14


 


 


 


    1,218


 


 


 


    15


 





    Southeast Asia



 


 


    578


 


 


 


    6


 


 


 


    252


 


 


 


    5


 


 


 


    516


 


 


 


    6


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Asia Pacific



 


 


    7,421


 


 


 


    78


 


 


 


    3,295


 


 


 


    66


 


 


 


    5,660


 


 


 


    69


 





    North America(*)



 


 


    1,147


 


 


 


    12


 


 


 


    966


 


 


 


    19


 


 


 


    1,520


 


 


 


    19


 





    Europe



 


 


    981


 


 


 


    10


 


 


 


    753


 


 


 


    15


 


 


 


    949


 


 


 


    12


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    9,549


 


 


 


    100


 


 


 


    5,014


 


 


 


    100


 


 


 


    8,129


 


 


 


    100


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (*) 
    
    
    Primarily the United States.




 


    Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied
    markets and sells products worldwide through a direct sales
    force. Approximately 88 percent of Applied’s fiscal
    2010 net sales were to regions outside of the
    United States.


 


    General economic conditions impact Applied’s business and
    financial results. From time to time, the markets in which
    products are sold experience weak economic conditions that may
    negatively impact sales. Applied’s business is usually not
    seasonal in nature, but it is highly cyclical, based on capital
    equipment investment by major semiconductor, flat panel display,
    solar PV and other manufacturers. Customers’ expenditures
    depend on many factors, including: anticipated market demand and
    pricing for semiconductors, LCDs, solar cells and modules, and
    other substrates; the development of new technologies;
    customers’ factory utilization; capital resources and
    financing; and global and regional economic conditions.


 


    Applied manages its business and reports financial results based
    on the segments described above, but does not allocate certain
    sales and marketing costs to the segments.


 


    Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and
    long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic
    regions is included in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. The following companies accounted





    
    10



Table of Contents





    for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales in
    2010, 2009,
    and/or 2008,
    which were for products in multiple reportable segments.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    2010


 


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 



 






    Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 



 


 


    14


    %


 


 


    10


    %


 


 


    16


    %





    Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited



 


 


    11


    %


 


 


    *


 


 


 


    *


 





    Intel Corporation



 


 


    *


 


 


 


    12


    %


 


 


    *


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    * 
    
    
    Less than 10%.




 



    Competition


 


    The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive
    and characterized by rapid technological change. Applied’s
    ability to compete generally depends on its ability to timely
    commercialize its technology, continually improve its products
    and develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer
    requirements. Significant competitive factors include technical
    capability and differentiation, productivity and
    cost-effectiveness. The importance of these factors varies
    according to customers’ needs, including product mix and
    respective product requirements, applications, and the timing
    and circumstances of purchasing decisions. Substantial
    competition exists in all areas of Applied’s business.
    Competitors range from small companies that compete with a
    single product
    and/or in a
    single region, to global, diversified companies with a range of
    products. Applied’s ability to compete requires a high
    level of investment in RD&E, marketing and sales and global
    customer support activities. Management believes that many of
    Applied’s products have strong competitive positions.


 


    The competitive environment for each segment is described below:


 


    The semiconductor industry has been increasingly driven by
    consumer demand for lower-cost electronic products with
    increased capability and, to a lesser extent, by demand for
    commercial applications. As a result, products within the
    Silicon Systems Group segment are subject to rapid changes in
    customer requirements, including transitions to smaller
    dimensions, new materials and an increasing number of
    applications. While certain existing technologies may be adapted
    to new requirements, some applications create the need for an
    entirely different technical approach. The rapid pace of
    technological change can quickly diminish the value of current
    technologies and products and create opportunities for existing
    and new competitors. Applied offers a broad portfolio of
    technically- differentiated products that must continuously
    evolve to satisfy customers’ requirements in order to
    compete effectively. Applied allocates resources among its
    numerous product offerings and therefore may decide not to
    invest in an individual product to the same degree as
    competitors who specialize in fewer products. There are a number
    of competitors serving the semiconductor manufacturing equipment
    industry, with some offering a single product line and others
    offering multiple product lines. These competitors range from
    suppliers serving a single region to global, diversified
    companies. Factors that influenced the competitive environment
    for the Silicon Systems Group in fiscal 2010 included the
    rebound in the semiconductor industry, driven by higher demand
    for PCs and cell phones as well as the introduction of tablet
    computers. Higher factory utilization rates and tight device
    supply led manufacturers to increase their wafer fab equipment
    (WFE) capital spending, which is the major driver for Silicon
    Systems Group net sales.


 


    Products and services within the Applied Global Services segment
    are characterized by demanding worldwide service requirements
    and a diverse group of numerous competitors. To compete
    effectively, Applied offers products and services to reduce
    costs, improve productivity, and lessen the environmental impact
    of customers’ fab operations. Significant competitive
    factors include productivity, cost-effectiveness, and the level
    of technical service and support. The importance of these
    factors varies according to customers’ needs and the type
    of products or services offered. Customers with more significant
    operations
    and/or
    expertise may require fewer service products than customers who
    place greater reliance on an outsourcing model. Industry
    conditions that affected Applied Global Services’ sales of
    spares and services in fiscal 2010 were principally
    semiconductor manufacturers’ wafer starts as well as
    additions to the tool installed base.


 


    Products in the Display segment are subject to strong
    competition from a number of major competitors. Applied holds
    established market positions with its technically-differentiated
    thin film technology (TFT)-LCD manufacturing solutions for
    PECVD, color filter PVD and TFT array testing, although its
    market position could





    
    11



Table of Contents





    change quickly due to customers’ evolving requirements. The
    competitive environment for Applied’s Display segment in
    fiscal 2010 was characterized by increased capacity requirements
    for larger flat panel televisions and growing global demand for
    touch screen devices.


 


    Applied’s products within the Energy and Environmental
    Solutions segment compete in diverse market areas, including
    equipment to make solar PV cells and modules. All of these
    markets are driven by extreme pressure to reduce overall
    production costs and improve cell performance. In this segment,
    Applied offers products primarily for c-Si wafer-based
    applications. Applied competes with many other companies, some
    of which have more experience with solar applications and some
    of which are just entering the solar equipment business.


 



    Patents
    and Licenses


 


    Management believes that Applied’s competitive position
    significantly depends upon the Company’s research,
    development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing
    capabilities, and not just on its patent position. However,
    protection of Applied’s technological assets through
    enforcement of its intellectual property rights, including
    patents, is important. Therefore, Applied’s practice is to
    file patent applications in the United States and other
    countries for inventions that Applied considers significant.
    Applied has a substantial number of patents in the United States
    and other countries, and additional applications are pending for
    new inventions. Although Applied does not consider its business
    materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied
    and the products made and sold under its patents, taken as a
    whole, are a significant element of Applied’s business. In
    addition to patents, Applied also possesses other intellectual
    property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets and
    copyrights.


 


    Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements
    with other companies when management determines that it is in
    the Company’s best interest to do so. Applied pays
    royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use,
    in several of its products, of certain patented technologies
    that are licensed to Applied for the life of the patents.
    Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third
    parties. Royalties received from or paid to third parties have
    not been, and are not expected to be, material to Applied’s
    consolidated results of operations.


 


    In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives
    and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In
    responding to such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful
    for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights.
    However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights
    will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms,
    or at all. If Applied is not able to resolve or settle claims,
    obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms,
    and/or
    successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    Applied maintains a number of environmental, health and safety
    programs that are primarily preventive in nature. As part of
    these programs, Applied regularly monitors ongoing compliance
    with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, Applied has
    trained personnel to conduct investigations of any
    environmental, health or safety incidents, including, without
    limitation, spills, releases or possible contamination.


 


    Compliance with federal, state and local environmental, health
    and safety provisions, including, without limitation, those
    regulating the discharge of materials into the environment,
    remedial agreements and other actions relating to the
    environment have not had, and are not expected to have, a
    material effect on Applied’s capital expenditures,
    competitive position, financial condition or results of
    operations.


 


    The most recent report on Applied’s environmental, health
    and safety activities can be found in the Company’s
    Citizenship Report on its website at
    http://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/environment.html
    with additional information at
    http://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/cr/sustainability.
    The Citizenship Report is updated periodically. This website
    address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.
    None of the information on Applied’s website is part of
    this
    Form 10-K
    or is incorporated by reference herein.


 



    Employees


 


    At October 31, 2010, Applied employed approximately 13,000
    regular employees and 1,325 temporary employees. In the
    high-technology industry, competition for highly-skilled
    employees is intense. Applied believes





    
    12



Table of Contents





    that its future success is highly dependent upon its continued
    ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees.
    There can be no assurance that Applied will be able to attract,
    hire, assimilate, motivate and retain a sufficient number of
    qualified employees.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    The following table and notes set forth information about
    Applied’s executive officers as of October 31, 2010:


 




     	
     	
     	





    Name of Individual


 


    Position



 






    Michael R. Splinter(1)



 


    Chairman of Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive
    Officer





    George S. Davis(2)



 


    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer





    Mark R. Pinto(3)



 


    Executive Vice President, General Manager Energy and
    Environmental Solutions and Display, Chief Technology Officer





    Randhir Thakur(4)



 


    Executive Vice President, General Manager Silicon Systems





    Joseph Flanagan(5)



 


    Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Supply Chain





    Manfred Kerschbaum(6)



 


    Senior Vice President, Chief of Staff





    Joseph J. Sweeney(7)



 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary





    Chris Bowers(8)



 


    Group Vice President, Corporate Initiatives





    Ron Kifer(9)



 


    Group Vice President, Chief Information Officer





    Mary Humiston(10)



 


    Group Vice President, Global Human Resources





    Charlie Pappis(11)



 


    Group Vice President, General Manager Applied Global Services





    Thomas S. Timko(12)



 


    Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief
    Accounting Officer








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Mr. Splinter, age 60, was named President, Chief
    Executive Officer and a member of Applied’s Board of
    Directors upon joining Applied in April 2003, and he has been
    Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 2009. Prior to
    joining Applied, Mr. Splinter worked for nearly
    20 years at Intel Corporation (Intel), most recently as
    Executive Vice President and Director of the Sales and Marketing
    Group, responsible for sales and operations worldwide.
    Mr. Splinter previously held various executive positions at
    Intel, including Executive Vice President and General Manager of
    the Technology and Manufacturing Group.



 


    
    (2) 
    
    
    Mr. Davis, age 53, was promoted to Executive Vice
    President, Chief Financial Officer in December 2006, after being
    appointed Group Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
    effective November 2006. Previously, he had been Group Vice
    President, General Manager, Corporate Business Development since
    February 2005. From November 1999 to February 2005,
    Mr. Davis served as Vice President and Corporate Treasurer,
    where he managed Applied’s worldwide treasury operations
    and was responsible for investments, tax, financial risk
    management, and trade and export matters. Mr. Davis joined
    Applied in 1999.



 


    
    (3) 
    
    
    Dr. Pinto, age 51, has served as Executive Vice
    President since joining Applied in January 2004. His current
    responsibility is General Manager, Energy and Environmental
    Solutions and Display as well as corporate Chief Technology
    Officer. Prior to joining Applied, Dr. Pinto spent
    19 years with Bell Laboratories and the Lucent
    Microelectronics Group, which later became Agere Systems Inc.,
    most recently as Vice President of the Analog Products Division.
    Dr. Pinto holds a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from
    Stanford University.



 


    
    (4) 
    
    
    Dr. Thakur, age 48, has held the position of Executive
    Vice President, General Manager Silicon Systems since October
    2009. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, General Manager,
    Thin Film Solar and Display. He was appointed Senior Vice
    President, General Manager, Strategic Operations when he
    rejoined Applied in May 2008. He previously was with Applied
    from 2000 to 2005 in a variety of executive roles including
    Group Vice President, General Manager for Front End Products.
    From September 2005 to May 2008, Dr. Thakur served as
    Executive Vice President of Technology and Fab Operations at
    SanDisk Corporation and as head of SanDisk’s worldwide
    operations. Prior to joining Applied in 2000, Dr. Thakur
    served in leadership roles at Steag Electronic Systems AG and
    Micron Technology, Inc.






    
    13



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



    
    (5) 
    
    
    Mr. Flanagan, age 39, was appointed Senior Vice
    President, Worldwide Operations and Supply Chain in February
    2010. Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Flanagan held executive
    positions in global operations for Nortel Networks Corporation,
    including president of Nortel Business Services from August 2009
    to February 2010. Previously, Mr. Flanagan held a number of
    positions from 1993 to 2006 at General Electric.



 


    
    (6) 
    
    
    Mr. Kerschbaum, age 56, was named Senior Vice
    President, Chief of Staff in September 2009. Prior to that he
    served as Senior Vice President, General Manager, Applied Global
    Services from January 2005 to September 2009.
    Mr. Kerschbaum was Senior Vice President, Global Operations
    from July 2004 to January 2005 and from October 2002 to May
    2003. From May 2003 to July 2004, he was Group Vice President,
    Foundation Engineering and Operations. From January 1996 to
    October 2002, he held various positions in Applied Materials
    North America, most recently as Group Vice President, General
    Manager, Applied Materials North America.
    Mr. Kerschbaum has served in various other operations,
    customer service and engineering positions since joining Applied
    in 1983.



 


    
    (7) 
    
    
    Mr. Sweeney, age 62, has held the position of Senior
    Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of
    Applied since July 2005, with responsibility for global legal
    affairs, intellectual property and security. From April 2002 to
    July 2005, Mr. Sweeney was Group Vice President, Legal
    Affairs and Intellectual Property, and Corporate Secretary.
    Mr. Sweeney joined Applied in 1993.



 


    
    (8) 
    
    
    Mr. Bowers, age 50, has been Group Vice President,
    Corporate Initiatives since March 2008. From March 2008 to
    September 2009, he was Group Vice President and General Manager
    of Corporate Services and Chief of Staff, working closely with
    executives on effective business strategy execution. Prior to
    joining Applied, Mr. Bowers was a partner at the Hay Group,
    where he held various business leadership and consulting
    positions from 1992 to 2008. Most recently, he was Director of
    Client Services in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and a
    member of the Hay Group Global R&D Council.



 


    
    (9) 
    
    
    Mr. Kifer, age 59, joined Applied in May 2006 as Group
    Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Global Information
    Services. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Kifer spent five
    years with DHL in various executive management roles, most
    recently as the Senior Vice President and Chief Information
    Officer for North America, Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets.



 


    
    (10) 
    
    
    Ms. Humiston, age 45, was named Group Vice President,
    Global Human Resources, in May 2010. Prior to that, she served
    as the Corporate Vice President of Human Resources for both the
    Energy and Environmental Solutions and Display groups. Prior to
    joining Applied, Ms. Humiston was Vice President of Human
    Resources at Honeywell International Inc. from October 2002 to
    June 2008, with responsibility for various corporate and
    international organizations. She previously held executive
    positions with PeoplePC, Gap, Inc. and General Electric.



 


    
    (11) 
    
    
    Mr. Pappis, age 50, has been Group Vice President and
    General Manager of Applied Global Services since September 2009.
    He previously held positions in Applied Global Services as
    Corporate Vice President and General Manager for the
    Semiconductor Service Solutions group and as general manager for
    Equipment Productivity Services. He has held various other
    management positions since joining Applied in 1986.



 


    
    (12) 
    
    
    Mr. Timko, age 42, joined Applied in March 2010 as
    Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief
    Accounting Officer. From June 2006 until March 2010,
    Mr. Timko was with Delphi Automotive LLP, where he was most
    recently Chief Accounting Officer and Controller. He served as
    Assistant Controller for The Interpublic Group of Companies,
    Inc. from December 2004 to June 2006, and previously at Dover
    Corporation. Mr. Timko began his career in 1991 with
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC and is a certified public accountant.




 



    Available
    Information


 


    Applied’s website is
    http://www.appliedmaterials.com.
    Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its
    website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any
    amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable
    after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing
    them to, the SEC. This website address is intended to be an
    inactive textual reference only. None of the information on
    Applied’s website is part of this
    Form 10-K
    or is incorporated by reference herein.




    
    14



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The following factors could materially affect Applied’s
    business, financial condition or results of operations and
    should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its
    business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere
    in this report.


 



    The
    industries that Applied serves are volatile and difficult to
    predict.


 


    As a supplier to the global semiconductor, flat panel display,
    solar and related industries, Applied is subject to business
    cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be
    difficult to predict and which vary by reportable segment. These
    industries historically have been cyclical due to sudden changes
    in customers’ manufacturing capacity and advanced
    technology requirements and spending, which depend in part on
    customers’ capacity utilization, production volumes,
    end-use demand, and inventory levels relative to demand, as well
    as the rate of technology transitions and customers’ access
    to affordable capital. These changes have affected the timing
    and amounts of customers’ purchases and investments in
    technology, and continue to affect Applied’s orders, net
    sales, operating expenses and net income.


 


    To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves,
    Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage
    its resources and production capacity for each of its segments
    as well as across multiple segments. During periods of
    increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient
    manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand;
    effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and
    motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and
    continue to control costs. During periods of decreasing demand,
    Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with
    prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply
    chain; and motivate and retain key employees. If Applied does
    not accurately forecast and timely and appropriately adapt to
    changes in its business environment, Applied’s business,
    financial condition and results of operations may be materially
    and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with the difficult financial
    markets and uncertain global economy.


 


    The tightening of the credit markets, disruption in the
    financial markets, and global economic recession that began in
    2008 contributed to significant slowdowns in the industries in
    which Applied operates. Although economic and market conditions
    have improved, continuing difficulties in the financial markets
    and uncertainty regarding the global economic recovery are
    posing challenges. The markets for semiconductors and flat panel
    displays in particular depend largely on consumer spending.
    Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in consumer
    spending and may cause certain Applied customers to push out,
    cancel, or refrain from placing orders for equipment or
    services, which may reduce net sales, reduce backlog, and affect
    Applied’s ability to convert backlog to sales. Difficulties
    in obtaining capital, uncertain market conditions, or reduced
    profitability may also cause some customers to scale back
    operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or
    file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations,
    leading to customers’ reduced research and development
    funding
    and/or
    capital expenditures and, in turn, lower sales
    and/or
    additional inventory or bad debt expense for Applied. These
    conditions may also similarly affect key suppliers, which could
    impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for
    Applied’s products or added costs. In addition, these
    conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation
    of, other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect
    Applied’s ability to compete effectively.


 


    Uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also
    makes it more challenging for Applied to forecast its operating
    results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that
    may affect its business, sources and uses of cash, financial
    condition and results of operations. Applied may be required to
    implement additional cost reduction efforts, including
    restructuring activities,
    and/or
    modify its business model, which may adversely affect
    Applied’s ability to capitalize on opportunities in a
    market recovery. In addition, Applied maintains an investment
    portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign
    exchange, market and interest rate risks. The risks to
    Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if
    financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the
    value and liquidity of the investment portfolio and return on
    pension assets could be negatively impacted and lead to
    impairment charges. If Applied does not timely and appropriately
    adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain





    
    15



Table of Contents





    macroeconomic environment and industry conditions,
    Applied’s business, financial condition or results of
    operations may be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the
    various industries in which it operates.


 


    The global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related
    industries in which Applied operates are characterized by
    ongoing changes affecting some or all of these industries,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increasing capital requirements for building and operating new
    fabrication plants and customers’ ability to raise the
    necessary capital, particularly in a difficult financial market;




 



     
        • 

    
    differences in growth rates among the semiconductor, display and
    solar industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing importance of establishing, improving and
    maintaining strong relationships with customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    abrupt and unforeseen shifts in the nature and amount of
    customer and end-user demand;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing cost and complexity for customers to move from
    product design to volume manufacturing, which may slow the
    adoption rate for new manufacturing technology;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to reduce the total cost of manufacturing system
    ownership, due in part to greater demand for lower-cost consumer
    electronics as compared to business information technology
    spending;




 



     
        • 

    
    the heightened importance to customers of system reliability and
    productivity and the effect on demand for fabrication systems as
    a result of their increasing productivity, device yield and
    reliability;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing importance of, and difficulties in, developing
    products with sufficient differentiation to influence
    customers’ purchasing decisions;




 



     
        • 

    
    requirements for shorter cycle times for the development,
    manufacture and installation of manufacturing equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    price and performance trends for semiconductor devices, LCDs and
    solar PVs, and the corresponding effect on demand for such
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing importance of the availability of spare parts to
    maximize the time that customers’ systems are available for
    production;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing role for and complexity of software in Applied
    products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing focus on reducing energy usage and improving the
    environmental impact and sustainability associated with
    manufacturing operations.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    the ongoing changes in the semiconductor, flat panel display,
    solar and related industries, its business, financial condition
    and results of operations could be materially and adversely
    affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to
    the semiconductor industry.


 


    The greatest portion of Applied’s consolidated net sales
    and profitability historically has been derived from sales of
    manufacturing equipment by the Silicon Systems Group to the
    global semiconductor industry. In addition, a majority of the
    revenues of Applied Global Services is from sales of service
    products to semiconductor manufacturers. The semiconductor
    industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to that
    industry in addition to the general industry changes described
    in the preceding risk factor, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the increasing cost of research and development due to many
    factors, including: decreasing linewidths on a chip; the use of
    new materials such as cobalt and yttrium; new and more complex
    device structures; more applications and process steps;
    increasing chip design costs; and the increasing cost and
    complexity of integrated manufacturing processes;




 



     
        • 

    
    the growing number of types and varieties of semiconductors and
    number of applications across multiple substrate sizes;







    
    16



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    differing market growth rates and capital requirements for
    different applications, such as NAND Flash, DRAM, logic and
    foundry, and the resulting effect on customers’ spending
    patterns and on Applied’s ability to compete in these
    market segments;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing cost and complexity for semiconductor
    manufacturers to move more technically advanced capability and
    smaller linewidths to volume manufacturing, and the resulting
    impact on the rates of technology transition and investment in
    capital equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    semiconductor manufacturers’ increasing adoption of more
    productive 300mm systems in relation to 200mm system capacity,
    and the resulting effect on demand for manufacturing equipment
    and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    the decreasing rate of capital expenditures as a percentage of
    semiconductor manufacturers’ revenue;




 



     
        • 

    
    shorter cycle times between customers’ order placement and
    product shipment, which may lead to inventory write-offs and
    manufacturing inefficiencies that decrease gross margin;




 



     
        • 

    
    technology developments in related markets, such as lithography,
    to which Applied may need to adapt;




 



     
        • 

    
    competitive factors that make it difficult to enhance market
    position;




 



     
        • 

    
    the importance of growing market positions in larger market
    segments, such as etch and inspection;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing concentration of wafer starts in one country,
    Korea, where Applied’s service penetration and
    service-revenue-per-wafer-start have been lower than in other
    regions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing fragmentation of semiconductor markets, leading
    certain markets to become too small to support the cost of a new
    fabrication plant, while others require less technologically
    advanced products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the cost, technical complexity and timing of a proposed
    transition from 300mm to 450mm wafers.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    the ongoing changes occurring in the semiconductor industry, its
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to
    the flat panel display industry.


 


    The global flat panel display industry historically has
    experienced considerable volatility in capital equipment
    investment levels, due in part to the limited number of LCD
    manufacturers and the concentrated nature of LCD end-use
    applications. Recently, industry growth has depended to a
    considerable extent on consumer demand for increasingly larger
    and more advanced TVs. In addition to the general industry
    changes described above in the third risk factor, the display
    industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to that
    industry, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the planned expansion of manufacturing facilities in China by
    Chinese display manufacturers as well as manufacturers from
    other countries, and the ability of non-Chinese manufacturers to
    obtain government approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    technical and financial difficulties associated with
    transitioning to larger substrate sizes for LCDs;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effect of a slowing rate of transition to larger substrate
    sizes on capital intensity and product differentiation;




 



     
        • 

    
    technical difficulties and costs associated with developing new
    technologies for use in LCD manufacturing, such as LEDs for
    backlighting;




 



     
        • 

    
    new energy efficiency standards for large-screen LCD
    TVs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainty with respect to future LCD technology end-use
    applications and growth drivers.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    the ongoing changes occurring in the display industry, its
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to
    the solar industry.


 


    Applied anticipates that an increasing portion of its business
    will be in the emerging solar market, which, in addition to the
    general industry changes described above in the third risk
    factor, is characterized by ongoing changes specific to the
    solar industry, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the need to continually decrease the
    cost-per-watt
    of electricity produced by solar PV products by, among other
    things, reducing operating costs and increasing throughputs for
    solar PV manufacturing, and improving the conversion efficiency
    of solar PVs;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impact on demand for solar PV products arising from the cost
    of electricity generated by solar PVs compared to the cost of
    electricity from the existing grid or other energy sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    the varying energy policies of governments around the world and
    their effect in influencing the rate of growth of the solar PV
    market, including the availability and amount of government
    incentives for solar power such as tax credits, feed-in tariffs,
    rebates, renewable portfolio standards that require electricity
    providers to sell a targeted amount of energy from renewable
    sources, and goals for solar installations on government
    facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    the cost of polysilicon and other materials;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the nature and amount of end demand for solar PVs
    that may adversely impact the sales growth rates and
    profitability of Applied’s products;




 



     
        • 

    
    varying levels of infrastructure investment for “smart
    grid” technologies to modernize and enhance the
    transmission, distribution and use of electricity, which link
    distributed solar PV sources to population centers, increase
    transmission capability, and optimize power usage;




 



     
        • 

    
    access to affordable financing and capital by customers and
    end-users; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the growing number of solar PV manufacturers and increasing
    global production capacity for solar PVs, primarily in China as
    a result of increased solar subsidies and lower manufacturing
    costs, which may lead to oversupply.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    the ongoing changes occurring in the solar industry, its
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    must adapt its business and product offerings to respond to
    competition and rapid technological changes.


 


    As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment, its
    future success depends on many factors, including the effective
    commercialization and customer acceptance of its equipment,
    services and related products. In addition, Applied must
    successfully execute its growth strategy, including enhancing
    market share in existing markets, expanding into related
    markets, cultivating new markets and exceeding industry growth
    rates, while constantly improving its operational performance.
    The development, introduction and support of a broadening set of
    products in more varied competitive environments have grown
    increasingly complex and expensive over time. Furthermore, new
    or improved products may entail higher costs and reduced
    profits. Applied’s performance may be adversely affected if
    it does not timely, cost-effectively and successfully:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    develop new products, improve
    and/or
    develop new applications for existing products, and adapt
    similar products for use by customers in different applications
    and/or
    markets with varying technical requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    appropriately price and achieve market acceptance of products;




 



     
        • 

    
    differentiate its products from those of competitors and any
    disruptive technologies, meet performance specifications, and
    drive efficiencies and cost reductions;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain operating flexibility to enable different responses to
    different markets, customers and applications;







    
    18



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    allocate resources, including people and R&D funding, among
    Applied’s products and between the development of new
    products and the enhancement of existing products, as most
    appropriate and effective for future growth;




 



     
        • 

    
    reduce the cost of, and improve the productivity of capital
    invested in, R&D activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    accurately forecast demand, work with suppliers and meet
    production schedules for its products;




 



     
        • 

    
    improve its manufacturing processes and achieve cost
    efficiencies across product offerings;




 



     
        • 

    
    adapt to changes in value offered by companies in different
    parts of the supply chain;




 



     
        • 

    
    qualify products for volume manufacturing with its
    customers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    implement changes in its design engineering methodology,
    including those that enable reduction of material costs and
    cycle time, greater commonality of platforms and types of parts
    used in different systems, greater effectiveness of product life
    cycle management, and reduced energy usage and environmental
    impact.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage these challenges, its
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Operating
    in multiple industries, and the entry into new markets and
    industries, entail additional challenges.


 


    As part of its growth strategy, Applied must successfully expand
    into related or new markets and industries, either with its
    existing products or with new products developed internally or
    obtained through acquisitions. The entry into different markets
    involves additional challenges, including those arising from:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the need to devote additional resources to develop new products
    for, and operate in, new markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing rates of profitability and growth among multiple
    businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    Applied’s ability to anticipate demand, capitalize on
    opportunities, and avoid or minimize risks;




 



     
        • 

    
    the complexity of managing multiple businesses with variations
    in production planning, execution, supply chain management and
    logistics;




 



     
        • 

    
    the adoption of new business models;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to undertake activities to grow demand for end-products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to develop adequate new business processes and systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    Applied’s ability to rapidly expand its operations to meet
    increased demand and the associated effect on working capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    new materials, processes and technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to attract, motivate and retain employees with skills
    and expertise in these new areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    new and more diverse customers and suppliers, including some
    with limited operating histories, uncertain
    and/or
    limited funding, evolving business models
    and/or
    locations in regions where Applied does not have existing
    operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    different customer service requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    new or different competitors with potentially more financial or
    other resources, industry experience
    and/or
    established customer relationships;




 



     
        • 

    
    entry into new industries and countries, with differing levels
    of government involvement, laws and regulations, and business,
    employment and safety practices;




 



     
        • 

    
    third parties’ intellectual property rights; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to comply with, or work to establish, industry
    standards and practices.







    
    19



Table of Contents




 


    In addition, Applied has begun applying for and receiving
    funding from United States and other government agencies for
    certain strategic development programs to increase its R&D
    resources and address new market opportunities. As a condition
    to this government funding, Applied may be subject to certain
    record-keeping, audit, intellectual property rights-sharing
    and/or other
    obligations.


 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    its diversification and entry into new markets and industries,
    its business, financial condition and results of operations
    could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to the risks of operating a global
    business.


 


    In fiscal 2010, approximately 88 percent of Applied’s
    net sales were to customers in regions outside the
    United States. Certain of Applied’s R&D and
    manufacturing facilities, as well as suppliers to Applied, are
    also located outside the United States, including in Singapore,
    Taiwan, China, Korea, Israel, Italy and Switzerland. Applied is
    also expanding its business and operations in new countries. The
    global nature of Applied’s business and operations presents
    challenges, including but not limited to those arising from:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and
    demands;




 



     
        • 

    
    political and social attitudes, laws, rules, regulations and
    policies within countries that favor domestic companies over
    non-domestic companies, including customer- or
    government-supported efforts to promote the development and
    growth of local competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations among, and changes in, local, regional, national or
    international laws and regulations (including intellectual
    property, labor, tax, and import /export laws), as well as the
    interpretation and application of such laws and regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    global trade issues, including those related to the
    interpretation and application of import and export licenses;




 



     
        • 

    
    positions taken by governmental agencies regarding possible
    national commercial
    and/or
    security issues posed by international business operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuating raw material, commodity and energy costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    challenges associated with managing more geographically diverse
    operations and projects ;




 



     
        • 

    
    varying customs, practices and expectations of workers in
    different regions;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations in the ability to develop relationships with local
    customers, suppliers and governments;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates,
    including the relative strength or weakness of the
    U.S. dollar and the euro;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in
    different locations;




 



     
        • 

    
    political instability, natural disasters (such as earthquakes,
    floods or storms), pandemics, terrorism or acts of war in
    locations where Applied has operations, suppliers or sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    cultural and language differences;




 



     
        • 

    
    shipping costs
    and/or
    delays;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to continually improve the Company’s operating
    cost structure;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties and uncertainties associated with the entry into
    new countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various
    countries; and




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainties with respect to growth rates for the manufacture
    and sales of semiconductors, LCDs and solar PVs in the
    developing economies of certain countries.





 


    Many of these challenges are present in China and Korea, which
    are experiencing significant growth of both suppliers and
    competitors to Applied. Applied further believes that China and
    Korea present large potential markets





    
    20



Table of Contents





    for its products and opportunity for growth over the long term,
    although at lower projected levels of profitability and margins
    for certain products than historically have been achieved in
    other regions. In addition, Applied must regularly reassess the
    size, capability and location of its global infrastructure and
    make appropriate changes, and must have effective change
    management processes and procedures to address changes in its
    business and operations. These challenges may materially and
    adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated
    customer base.


 


    Applied’s semiconductor and flat panel display customer
    bases historically have been, and are becoming even more, highly
    concentrated as a result of economic and industry conditions.
    For example, in fiscal 2010, four semiconductor manufacturers
    accounted for 51 percent of Silicon Systems Group net
    sales, and five LCD manufacturers accounted for 71 percent
    of Display net sales.Certain customers have experienced
    significant ownership or management changes, consolidated with
    other manufacturers, outsourced manufacturing activities, or
    engaged in collaboration or cooperation arrangements with other
    manufacturers. In addition, customers have entered into
    strategic alliances or industry consortia that have increased
    the influence of key industry participants in technology
    decisions made by their partners. Also, certain semiconductor
    and display customers are making an increasingly greater
    percentage of their respective industry’s capital equipment
    investments.


 


    In this environment, contracts or orders from a relatively
    limited number of semiconductor and display manufacturers have
    accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a
    substantial portion of Applied’s business, which may result
    in added complexities in managing customer relationships and
    transactions. In addition, the mix and type of customers, and
    sales to any single customer, may vary significantly from
    quarter to quarter and from year to year. If customers do not
    place orders, or they substantially reduce, delay or cancel
    orders, Applied may not be able to replace the business. As
    Applied’s products are configured to customer
    specifications, changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may
    result in significant, non-recoverable costs. Major customers
    may also seek, and on occasion receive, pricing, payment,
    intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that
    are less favorable to Applied. These factors could have a
    material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Manufacturing
    interruptions or delays could affect Applied’s ability to
    meet customer demand and lead to higher costs, while the failure
    to estimate customer demand accurately could result in excess or
    obsolete inventory.


 


    Applied’s business depends on its timely supply of
    equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly
    changing technical and volume requirements of its customers,
    which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts,
    components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from
    suppliers and timely performance by contract manufacturers. Some
    key parts may be subject to long lead-times
    and/or
    obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of
    suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by
    suppliers located in countries other than the United States,
    including China and Korea. Cyclical industry conditions and the
    volatility of demand for manufacturing equipment increase
    capital, technical, operational and other risks for companies
    throughout Applied’s supply chain. Further, the adverse
    conditions in the credit and financial markets and industry
    slowdowns in recent periods have caused, and may continue to
    cause, some suppliers to scale back operations, exit businesses,
    merge with other companies, or file for bankruptcy protection
    and possibly cease operations, potentially affecting
    Applied’s ability to obtain quality parts on a timely
    basis. Applied may experience significant interruptions of its
    manufacturing operations, delays in its ability to deliver
    products or services, increased costs or customer order
    cancellations as a result of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver
    sufficient quantities of quality parts on a cost-effective basis;




 



     
        • 

    
    volatility in the availability and cost of materials;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties or delays in obtaining required import or export
    approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    information technology or infrastructure failures;







    
    21



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or
    storms); or




 



     
        • 

    
    other causes (such as regional economic downturns, pandemics,
    political instability, terrorism, or acts of war) that could
    result in delayed deliveries, manufacturing inefficiencies,
    increased costs or order cancellations.





 


    In addition, Applied’s need to rapidly increase its
    business and manufacturing capacity to meet increases in demand
    or expedited shipment schedules may exacerbate any interruptions
    in Applied’s manufacturing operations and supply chain and
    the associated effect on Applied’s working capital.
    Moreover, if actual demand for Applied’s products is
    different than expected, Applied may purchase more/fewer parts
    than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or
    expediting delivery of parts. If Applied purchases inventory in
    anticipation of customer demand that does not materialize, or if
    customers reduce or delay orders, Applied may incur excess
    inventory charges. Any or all of these factors could materially
    and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and strategic
    investments.


 


    Applied has made, and in the future intends to make,
    acquisitions of, and investments in, companies, technologies or
    products in existing, related or new markets for Applied.
    Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited
    to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    diversion of management’s attention from other operational
    matters;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to complete acquisitions as anticipated or at all;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to realize anticipated benefits;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to commercialize purchased technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to capitalize on characteristics of new markets that
    may be significantly different from Applied’s existing
    markets and where competitors may have stronger market positions
    and customer relationships;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to attract, retain and motivate key employees from the
    acquired business;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposure to new operational risks, rules, regulations, worker
    expectations, customs and practices to the extent acquired
    businesses are located in countries where Applied has not
    historically conducted business;




 



     
        • 

    
    challenges associated with managing new, more diverse and more
    widespread operations, projects and people;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in
    key technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired company’s
    internal financial controls, disclosure controls and procedures,
    and/or
    environmental, health & safety, human resource, or
    other policies or practices;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill as a
    result of changing business conditions, technological
    advancements or
    worse-than-expected
    performance of the segment;




 



     
        • 

    
    the risk of litigation or disputes with customers, suppliers,
    partners or stockholders of an acquisition target arising from a
    proposed or completed transaction;




 



     
        • 

    
    unknown, underestimated
    and/or
    undisclosed commitments or liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical
    resources or facilities for business needs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    ineffective integration of operations, systems, technologies,
    products or employees of an acquired business.





 


    Applied also makes strategic investments in other companies,
    including companies formed as joint ventures, which may decline
    in value
    and/or not
    meet desired objectives. The success of these investments
    depends on various factors over which Applied may have limited
    or no control and, particularly with respect to joint ventures,
    requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic
    partners. The risks to Applied’s strategic investment
    portfolio may be exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and
    macroeconomic conditions and, as a result, the value of the





    
    22



Table of Contents





    investment portfolio could be negatively impacted and lead to
    impairment charges. Mergers and acquisitions and strategic
    investments are inherently subject to significant risks, and the
    inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and
    adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition
    and results of operations. If Applied does not successfully
    manage the risks associated with acquisitions and strategic
    investments, its business, financial condition and results of
    operations could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    The
    ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital
    to Applied’s success.


 


    Applied’s success and competitiveness depend in large part
    on its ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees.
    Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors,
    including fluctuations in global economic and industry
    conditions, changes in Applied’s management or leadership,
    competitors’ hiring practices, cost reduction activities
    (including workforce reductions), and the effectiveness of
    Applied’s compensation and benefit programs, including its
    share-based programs. Applied periodically evaluates its overall
    compensation program and makes adjustments, as appropriate, to
    enhance its competitiveness. If Applied does not successfully
    attract, retain and motivate key employees, Applied may be
    unable to capitalize on its opportunities and its operating
    results may be materially and adversely affected.


 



    The
    failure to successfully implement and conduct outsourcing
    activities and other operational initiatives could adversely
    affect results of operations.


 


    To better align its costs with market conditions, locate closer
    to customers, enhance productivity, and improve efficiencies,
    Applied conducts engineering, software development,
    manufacturing, sourcing and other operations in regions outside
    the United States, including India, China, and Korea. Applied is
    implementing a more distributed manufacturing model, which
    includes transitioning certain manufacturing and supply chain
    activities from the United States and Europe to Singapore,
    Taiwan and other countries in Asia and completing assembly of
    some systems at the customer site. In addition, Applied
    outsources certain functions to third parties, including
    companies in the United States, India, China, Korea and other
    countries. Outsourced functions include contract manufacturing,
    engineering, customer support, software development, information
    technology support, finance and administrative activities. The
    expanding role of third party providers has required changes to
    Applied’s existing operations and the adoption of new
    procedures and processes for retaining and managing these
    providers, as well as redistributing responsibilities as
    warranted, in order to realize the potential productivity and
    operational efficiencies, assure quality and continuity of
    supply, and protect Applied’s intellectual property. If
    Applied does not accurately forecast the amount, timing and mix
    of demand for products, or if contract manufacturers or other
    outsource providers fail to perform in a timely manner or at
    satisfactory quality levels, Applied’s ability to meet
    customer requirements could suffer, particularly during a market
    upturn.


 


    In addition, Applied is implementing a comprehensive program to
    better align its global organizations and processes, including
    initiatives to enhance the Asia supply chain, integrate its
    sales teams into the business units, and improve back office and
    information technology infrastructure for more efficient
    transaction processing. Applied also is implementing a
    multi-year, company-wide program to transform certain business
    processes, including the transition to a single enterprise
    resource planning (ERP) software system to perform various
    functions. The implementation of additional functionality to the
    ERP system entails certain risks, including difficulties with
    changes in business processes that could disrupt Applied’s
    operations, such as its ability to track orders and timely ship
    products, project inventory requirements, manage its supply
    chain and aggregate financial and operational data. The
    implementation of new initiatives may not achieve the
    anticipated benefits and may divert management’s attention
    from other operational activities, negatively affect employee
    morale, or have other unintended consequences.


 


    If Applied does not effectively develop and implement its
    outsourcing and relocation strategies, if required export and
    other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if
    Applied’s third party providers do not perform as
    anticipated, or if there are delays or difficulties in enhancing
    business processes, Applied may not realize anticipated
    productivity improvements or cost efficiencies, and may
    experience operational difficulties, increased costs (including
    energy and transportation), manufacturing interruptions or
    delays, inefficiencies in the structure
    and/or
    operation of its supply chain, loss of its intellectual property
    rights, quality issues, increased product





    
    23



Table of Contents





    time-to-market,
    and/or
    inefficient allocation of human resources, any or all of which
    could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    may incur impairment charges to goodwill or long-lived
    assets.


 


    Applied has a significant amount of goodwill and other acquired
    intangible assets related to acquisitions. Goodwill and
    purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not
    amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually during the
    fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and more frequently when
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    value of an asset may not be recoverable. The review compares
    the fair value for each of Applied’s reporting units to its
    associated carrying value, including goodwill. Factors that
    could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets
    include adverse industry or economic trends, reduced estimates
    of future cash flows, declines in the market price of Applied
    common stock, changes in the Company’s strategies or
    product portfolio, and restructuring activities. Applied’s
    valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires
    management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical
    experience and projections of future operating performance.
    Applied may be required to record a charge to earnings during
    the period in which an impairment of goodwill or amortizable
    intangible assets is determined to exist, which could materially
    and adversely affect Applied’s results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or
    claims and protection of intellectual property
    rights.


 


    Applied from time to time is, and in the future may be, involved
    in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement,
    intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental
    regulations, securities, contracts, product performance, product
    liability, unfair competition, misappropriation of trade
    secrets, employment, workplace safety, and other matters.
    Applied also on occasion receives notification from customers
    who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or other
    obligations related to claims made against such customers by
    third parties.


 


    In February 2010, the Seoul Prosecutor’s Office for the
    Eastern District in Korea indicted certain employees of Applied
    Materials Korea (AMK), including the former head of AMK who at
    the time of indictment was a vice president of Applied
    Materials, Inc., along with employees of several other
    companies, alleging the improper receipt and use of the
    confidential information of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
    (Samsung), a major customer. Hearings on these matters are
    ongoing in the Seoul Eastern District Court.. Applied and
    Samsung entered into a settlement agreement effective as of
    November 1, 2010, which resolves potential civil claims
    related to this matter and which is separate from and does not
    affect the criminal proceedings.


 


    Legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, and
    associated internal investigations, may (1) be
    time-consuming and expensive to prosecute, defend or conduct;
    (2) divert management’s attention and other Applied
    resources; (3) inhibit Applied’s ability to sell its
    products; (4) result in adverse judgments for damages,
    injunctive relief, penalties and fines;
    and/or
    (5) negatively affect Applied’s business. There can be
    no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal
    proceedings, claims or investigations. If Applied is not able to
    favorably resolve or settle legal proceedings or claims, or in
    the event of any adverse findings against Applied or any of its
    employees, Applied’s business, financial condition and
    results of operations could be materially and adversely affected
    and Applied may suffer harm to its reputation.


 


    Applied’s success depends in significant part on the
    protection of its intellectual property and other rights.
    Infringement of Applied’s rights by a third party, such as
    the unauthorized manufacture or sale of equipment or spare
    parts, could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue
    opportunities for Applied. Applied’s intellectual property
    rights may not provide significant competitive advantages if
    they are circumvented, invalidated, rendered obsolete by the
    rapid pace of technological change, or if Applied does not
    adequately protect or assert these rights. Furthermore, the laws
    and practices of other countries, including China, India, Taiwan
    and Korea, permit the protection and enforcement of
    Applied’s rights to varying extents, which may not be
    sufficient to protect Applied’s rights. Applied previously
    entered into an arrangement with one of its competitors to
    decrease the risk of patent infringement lawsuits in the future.
    There can be no assurance that the intended results of this
    arrangement will be achieved or that Applied will be able to
    adequately protect its intellectual property rights with the
    restrictions associated with the arrangement. If Applied is not
    able to favorably resolve or settle claims, obtain or enforce





    
    24



Table of Contents





    intellectual property rights, obtain necessary licenses on
    commercially reasonable terms,
    and/or
    successfully prosecute or defend its intellectual property
    position, Applied’s business, financial condition and
    results of operations could be materially and adversely affected
    and Applied may suffer harm to its reputation. See Note 18
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Changes
    in tax rates or tax assets and liabilities could affect results
    of operations.


 


    As a global company, Applied is subject to taxation in the
    United States and various other countries. Significant judgment
    is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities.
    Applied’s future annual and quarterly tax rates could be
    affected by numerous factors, including changes in the:
    (1) applicable tax laws; (2) amount and composition of
    pre-tax income in countries with differing tax rates; or
    (3) valuation of Applied’s deferred tax assets and
    liabilities.


 


    To better align with the increasingly international nature of
    its business, Applied is transitioning certain manufacturing,
    supply chain, and other operations into Asia, bringing these
    activities closer to customers. These changes are expected to
    result in a reduction of future operating costs. In Singapore,
    Applied is pursuing available tax incentives that provide that
    certain income earned in Singapore would be subject to tax
    holidays or reduced income tax rates. To obtain these tax
    benefits, Applied must meet requirements relating to various
    activities. Applied is engaged in discussions with tax
    authorities in Singapore and the United States concerning these
    incentives. Applied’s ability to realize benefits from
    these initiatives could be materially affected if, among other
    things, applicable requirements are not met, the incentives are
    substantially modified, or if Applied incurs net losses for
    which it cannot claim a deduction.


 


    In addition, Applied is subject to regular examination by the
    Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and from
    time to time initiates amendments to previously filed tax
    returns. Applied regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable
    or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations and
    amendments to determine the adequacy of its provision for income
    taxes, which requires estimates and judgments. Although Applied
    believes its tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no
    assurance that the tax authorities will agree with such
    estimates. Applied may have to engage in litigation to achieve
    the results reflected in the estimates, which may be
    time-consuming and expensive. There can be no assurance that
    Applied will be successful or that any final determination will
    not be materially different from the treatment reflected in
    Applied’s historical income tax provisions and accruals,
    which could materially and adversely affect Applied’s
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental and
    safety regulations.


 


    Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in
    connection with its global business operations, including but
    not limited to: regulations related to the development,
    manufacture and use of its products; recycling and disposal of
    materials used in its products or in producing its products; the
    operation of its facilities; and the use of its real property.
    The failure or inability to comply with existing or future
    environmental and safety regulations, such as those related to
    climate change, could result in: (1) significant
    remediation liabilities; (2) the imposition of fines;
    (3) the suspension or termination of the development,
    manufacture, sale or use of certain of its products;
    (4) limitations on the operation of its facilities or
    ability to use its real property;
    and/or
    (5) a decrease in the value of its real property, each of
    which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory
    environment.


 


    Applied is subject to various risks related to: (1) new,
    different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and
    regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies
    and/or
    regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates;
    (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional
    regulatory agencies related to international trade; and
    (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and
    regulations. For example, as a public company with global
    operations, Applied is subject to the laws of multiple
    jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing
    bodies, including those related to financial and other
    disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, and anti-corruption.
    Changes in laws, regulations and standards may create
    uncertainty regarding compliance matters. Efforts to comply with
    new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to
    continue to result in, increased general and administrative
    expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from
    revenue-





    
    25



Table of Contents





    generating activities to compliance activities. If Applied is
    found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance
    with applicable laws, rules or regulations, Applied could be
    subject to legal or regulatory sanctions, the public’s
    perception of Applied could decline, and Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B