Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Silicon
    Segment


 


    Applied’s Silicon Systems Group (SSG), reported under its
    Silicon segment, develops, manufactures and sells a wide range
    of manufacturing equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips
    or integrated circuits. Most chips are built on a silicon wafer
    base and include a variety of circuit components, such as
    transistors and other devices, that are connected by multiple
    layers of wiring (interconnects). Applied offers systems that
    perform most of the primary steps in the chip fabrication
    process, including: atomic layer deposition (ALD), chemical
    vapor deposition (CVD), physical vapor deposition (PVD), etch,
    rapid thermal processing (RTP), chemical mechanical
    planarization (CMP), wafer wet cleaning, and wafer metrology and
    inspection, as well as systems that etch, measure and inspect
    circuit patterns on masks used in the photolithography process.
    Applied’s semiconductor manufacturing systems are used by
    both integrated device manufacturers and foundries to build
    memory, logic and other types of chips.


 


    To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors and other circuit
    components are first created on the surface of the wafer by
    performing a series of processes to deposit and selectively
    remove successive film layers. Similar processes are then used
    to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer. As the
    density of the circuit components increases to enable greater
    computing power in the same or smaller area, the complexity of
    building the chip also increases, necessitating more process
    steps to form smaller structures and more intricate wiring
    schemes. A typical, simplified process sequence for building the
    wiring portion of chips involves initially depositing a
    dielectric film layer onto the base layer of circuit components
    using a CVD system. An etch system is then used to create
    openings and patterns in the dielectric layer. To form the metal
    wiring, these openings and patterns are subsequently filled with
    conducting material using PVD
    and/or
    electroplating technologies. A CMP step then polishes the wafer
    to achieve a flat surface. Additional deposition, etch and CMP
    steps are then performed to build up the layers of wiring needed
    to complete the interconnection of the circuit elements to form
    the chip. Advanced chip designs require about 500 steps
    involving these and other processes to complete the
    manufacturing cycle.


 


    A significant portion of the process steps used in chipmaking
    are performed to build the interconnect, a complex matrix of
    microscopic wires that carry electrical signals to connect the
    transistor and capacitor components of a chip. While some
    customers building memory chips are still using aluminum as the
    main conducting material for the interconnect, logic customers
    have transitioned to copper. Copper has lower resistance than
    aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller area. Applied
    is the leading supplier of systems for manufacturing
    copper-based chips, and supplies systems for depositing, etching
    and planarizing the copper interconnect layers. Complementing
    the transition to copper to improve chip speed is the use of low
    dielectric constant (low k) films to replace silicon
    dioxide material as the insulator between the copper wiring
    structures. Applied leads the industry in providing systems for
    depositing low k dielectric films.



    
    1



Table of Contents




    The transistor is another key area of the chip in which
    semiconductor manufacturers are improving their device designs
    to enhance speed. Applied has the industry’s largest
    portfolio of technically advanced products for building smaller
    and faster transistors. One such area is strain engineering, a
    technique that stretches or compresses the space between atoms,
    allowing electrical current to flow more quickly, thus greatly
    enhancing chip performance. Multiple strain films are typically
    used in advanced devices since they have an additive effect on
    increasing transistor speed. Applied has a comprehensive
    portfolio of systems to enable these applications using CVD and
    epitaxial deposition technologies.


 


    Most chips currently are fabricated using 65 nanometer (nm) and
    larger linewidth dimensions. Beginning at the 45nm technology
    node, major chipmakers have announced they will be integrating
    new high dielectric constant (high-k) and metal materials and
    processes in the transistor gate structure to reduce current
    leakage and enable faster switching speed. In 2007, Applied
    announced a comprehensive portfolio of fully characterized
    processes for building these high-k/metal gates. These solutions
    include an integrated dielectric gate stack tool that combines
    four critical processes in a single system, a portfolio of
    metallization technologies using ALD and PVD, and an innovative
    high temperature etch system.


 


    Most of Applied’s semiconductor equipment products are
    single-wafer systems with multiple process chambers attached to
    a base platform. This enables each wafer to be processed
    separately in its own environment, allowing precise process
    control, while the system’s multiple chambers enable
    simultaneous, high productivity manufacturing. Applied sells
    most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems on four basic
    platforms: the
    Centura®,
    the
    Endura®,
    the
    Producer®
    and the
    Vantage®.
    These platforms currently support ALD, CVD, PVD, etch and RTP
    technologies.


 


    Over time, the semiconductor industry has migrated to
    increasingly larger wafers to build chips. The predominant or
    common wafer size used today for the volume production of
    advanced chips is 300 millimeter (mm), or
    12-inch,
    wafers. Applied offers a comprehensive range of 300mm, as well
    as earlier-generation 200mm systems. Applied also offers
    products and services to support its systems, which are reported
    under its Fab Solutions segment.


 


    The following summarizes Applied’s portfolio of products
    and their associated process technology areas reported under its
    Silicon segment.


 



    Deposition


 


    Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During
    deposition, layers of dielectric (an insulator), barrier, or
    electrically conductive (typically metal) films are deposited or
    grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to
    perform the three main types of deposition: ALD, CVD and PVD. In
    addition, Applied’s RTP systems can be used to perform
    certain types of dielectric deposition.


 



    Atomic
    Layer Deposition


 


    ALD is an advanced technology in which atoms are deposited one
    layer at a time to build chip structures. This technology
    enables customers to fabricate thin films of either conducting
    or insulating material with uniform coverage in sub-nanometer
    sized structures. Applied offers ALD chambers for depositing
    tungsten, tantalum nitride and high-k films. The Applied Endura
    iCuBStm
    product is the industry’s first system to integrate ALD and
    PVD chambers on a single platform for depositing critical
    barrier and seed layers in copper interconnects. The Applied
    Centura
    iSprinttm
    Tungsten system (iSprint) combines an ALD chamber, which
    deposits a tungsten nucleation film, with a CVD tungsten bulk
    fill process in one system. The iSprint is used to form contact
    structures that connect the transistors to the wiring areas of
    the chip. Applied’s high-k ALD process is part of the
    Centura Advanced Gate Stack system which enables a single
    integrated solution for building high-k/metal gate structures.


 



    Chemical
    Vapor Deposition


 


    CVD is used by customers to deposit dielectric and metal films
    on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of
    the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming
    a thin film of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be
    silicon oxide, single-crystal epitaxial silicon, amorphous
    silicon, silicon nitride,



    
    2



Table of Contents




    dielectric anti-reflective coatings, low k dielectric (for
    highly efficient insulating materials), aluminum, titanium,
    titanium nitride, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or
    silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and
    technologies:


 


    The Applied Centura Ultima
    HDP-CVD®
    system — High-density plasma CVD (HDP-CVD) is used
    to fill very small, deep spaces (gap-fill) with dielectric film.
    This product is used by a number of major integrated circuit
    manufacturers for gap-fill applications, including the
    deposition of silicon oxides in substrate isolation structures,
    contacts and interconnect.


 


    The Applied Producer CVD platform — This
    high-throughput platform features
    Twin-Chambertm
    modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up
    to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer
    platform, giving it a simultaneous processing capacity of six
    wafers. Many dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this
    platform.


 


    Low k Dielectric Films — Many integrated
    circuit manufacturers are now incorporating new low
    k dielectric materials in their copper-based chip designs
    to further improve interconnect speed. The Applied Producer
    Black
    Diamond®
    CVD low k system is used by several customers in volume
    production to produce some of the industry’s most advanced
    devices. Using conventional CVD equipment, the Black Diamond
    product provides customers with a proven, cost-effective way to
    transition to this new material. The Applied Producer Black
    Diamond II is a second-generation dielectric deposition
    system that provides a lower k-value film for building faster 65
    nm generation and below chip designs. A complementary low k
    dielectric, called the Applied Producer
    BLOktm
    (Barrier low k), enables the complete, multi-layer dielectric
    structure to benefit from low k technology. In 2007, Applied
    introduced a second generation of this technology, the Applied
    Producer BLOk II, for 45nm and below applications.


 


    Lithography-Enabling Solutions — Applied offers
    several technologies on the Producer system to help chipmakers
    extend their current 193nm lithography tools, including the
    Applied
    APFtm
    (advanced patterning film) and the Applied
    DARC®
    (dielectric anti-reflective coating) films. Together, they
    provide a film stack with the precise dimensional control and
    compatibility needed to cost-effectively pattern nano-scale
    features without additional integration complexity. In 2007, the
    Company added to its lithography-enabling solutions with the
    Applied Producer ACE SACVD (sub-atmospheric CVD) system for
    fabricating denser memory cells with double patterning
    techniques.


 


    Strain Engineering Solutions — The Applied
    Producer HARP (high aspect ratio process) system plays a key
    role in overcoming transistor performance challenges by enabling
    chipmakers to boost chip speed by depositing strain inducing
    dielectric films in transistor structures, while also enabling
    geometric device scaling with high aspect ratio gap-fill
    capability. Offering the industry’s first integrated stress
    nitride deposition and ultraviolet (UV) cure solution, the
    Applied Producer Celera CVD delivers benchmark levels of
    high-stress tensile silicon nitride films. The Company also
    offers the Applied Centura SiNgenPlus LPCVD (low pressure
    CVD) system for low temperature silicon nitride films. Used
    together, and in conjunction with silicon germanium (SiGe) films
    using Applied’s epitaxial deposition technologies, these
    systems can provide additive strain engineering benefits.


 


    Epitaxial Deposition — Epitaxial silicon
    (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform
    crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base
    for the device circuitry. Epi technology is used in an
    increasing number of integrated circuit devices in both the
    wafer substrate and transistor areas of a chip to enhance speed.
    The Applied Centura Epi system integrates pre- and post-epi
    processes on the same system to improve film quality and reduce
    production costs. This system is also used for SiGe epi
    technology, which reduces power usage and increases speed in
    certain types of advanced chips. For emerging transistor
    designs, the Applied Centura RP Epi system offers selective epi
    processes to enable faster transistor switching through strain
    engineering techniques.


 


    Polysilicon Deposition — Polysilicon is a type
    of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure
    within the integrated circuit device. The Applied Centura
    Polygentm
    LPCVD (low pressure CVD) system is a single-wafer,
    multi-chamber product that deposits thin, polysilicon films at
    high temperatures to create transistor gate structures. To
    address the challenging requirements of shrinking transistor
    gate structures, the



    
    3



Table of Contents




    Applied Centura DPN Gate Stack system integrates chambers for
    decoupled plasma nitridation (DPN), RTP anneal and polysilicon
    deposition on one platform to enable superior film quality and
    material properties.


 


    Aluminum Deposition — Aluminum (Al) continues
    to be the material used by many memory manufacturers for
    interconnects. The Applied Endura iFill Al CVD CVD/PVD system is
    used for building high-density interconnects in Flash and DRAM
    memory chips. This advanced process, for sub-90nm generations,
    enables customers to replace tungsten structures with aluminum
    to achieve faster chips with fewer steps and less cost.


 


    Tungsten Deposition — Tungsten is used in the
    contact area of a chip that connects the transistors to the
    wiring circuitry. In aluminum-based devices, tungsten is also
    used in the structures that connect the multiple layers of
    aluminum wiring. Applied has two products for depositing
    tungsten: the Applied Centura
    Sprint®
    Tungsten CVD system for 90nm and below devices and the Applied
    Centura iSprint ALD/CVD system for more advanced applications.
    The latter product combines ALD technology and CVD chambers on
    the same platform.


 



    Physical
    Vapor Deposition


 


    PVD, also called sputtering, is a physical process in which
    atoms of a gas, such as argon, are accelerated toward a metal
    target. The metal atoms chip off, or sputter away, and are then
    deposited on the wafer. Applied leads the industry in PVD
    technology with its Applied Endura PVD system. This system
    offers a broad range of advanced deposition processes, including
    aluminum, aluminum alloys, cobalt, titanium/titanium nitride,
    tantalum/tantalum nitride, tungsten/tungsten nitride, nickel,
    vanadium and copper.


 


    The Applied Endura CuBS (copper barrier/seed) PVD system is
    widely used by customers for fabricating copper-based chips.
    Using PVD technology, the system deposits critical films that
    prevent copper material from entering other areas of the device
    and primes the structure for the subsequent deposition of bulk
    copper. Applied Siconi pre-clean technology extends the
    system’s capabilities to 45nm and below copper low k
    interconnects.


 


    The Applied Endura system’s highly flexible, multi-chamber
    architecture allows the integration of multiple PVD processes,
    or combinations of metal CVD and PVD technologies, on the same
    system. In addition to the integrated Applied Endura iCuBS
    ALD/PVD system (discussed in the Atomic Layer Deposition
    section), the Applied Endura
    iLBtm
    (integrated liner barrier) system combines a PVD chamber for
    depositing titanium with a CVD chamber for titanium nitride
    deposition to form critical lining layers of interconnect
    structures. These structures are subsequently filled with
    tungsten, aluminum or other materials.


 



    Etch


 


    Etching is used many times throughout the integrated circuit
    manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the
    surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated
    with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist. A
    photolithography process then projects the circuit pattern onto
    the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by
    the photoresist pattern. Applied offers a wide range of systems
    for etching dielectric, metal and silicon films to meet the
    requirements of sub-100nm processing.


 


    For dielectric applications, the Applied Centura
    eMax®
    system etches a broad range of dielectric films in the contact
    and interconnect regions of the chip. Applied’s Producer
    Etch system utilizes the Company’s Twin-Chamber Producer
    platform to target cost-sensitive dielectric etch applications
    in 90nm and below design geometries. To address advanced low k
    etch applications, the Applied Centura
    Enabler®
    Etch system performs etch, strip and clean steps in a single
    chamber. The Enabler’s
    all-in-one
    capability streamlines the process flow for advanced chip
    designs and significantly reduces operating costs. In 2007, the
    Company introduced its Applied Centura Carina system that uses
    innovative, high-temperature technology to deliver the etch
    capability essential for scaling logic and memory devices with
    high-k/metal gates at 45nm and below.


 


    The Applied Centura
    AdvantEdgetm
    Silicon Etch system offers chipmakers high precision gate
    etching for advanced-generation devices. To enable customers to
    scale memory devices, in 2007 the Company launched its Applied
    Centura Mariana Trench Etch, the first system with the
    capability to etch 80:1 aspect ratio structures. For etching
    metals, Applied also introduced in fiscal 2007 the Applied Opus
    AdvantEdge Metal Etch. Using an



    
    4



Table of Contents




    optimized 5-chamber platform configuration, this system enables
    customers to extend aluminum interconnect technology and
    productivity to sub-70nm dimensions for Flash and DRAM memory
    applications.


 



    Rapid
    Thermal Processing


 


    RTP is a process in which a wafer is subjected to rapid bursts
    of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to
    more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. A rapid
    thermal process is used mainly for modifying the properties of
    deposited films. The Applied Centura
    Radiance®Plus
    and Applied Vantage
    RadOxtm
    RTP systems feature advanced RTP technology with differing
    platform designs. While the multi-chamber, Centura platform
    offers exceptional process flexibility, the streamlined
    two-chamber Vantage platform is designed for dedicated
    high-volume manufacturing. These single-wafer RTP systems are
    also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films,
    deposition steps that traditional large batch furnaces can no
    longer achieve with the necessary precision and control. With
    its proprietary radical-based, oxidation process, the Applied
    Vantage RadOx system deposits high-performance transistor gate
    oxides with high productivity and low operating cost for Flash
    memory applications.


 



    Chemical
    Mechanical Planarization


 


    The CMP process removes material from a wafer to create a flat
    (planarized) surface. This process allows subsequent
    photolithography patterning steps to occur with greater accuracy
    and enables film layers to build with minimal height variations.
    The 300mm Applied
    Reflexion®
    LK system leads the industry in CMP technology with important
    features such as integrated cleaning, film measurement and
    process control capabilities. The 300mm Applied Reflexion LK
    Ecmptm
    system (Ecmp system) features proprietary, electrochemical
    mechanical planarization technology to provide a
    high-performance, cost-effective and extendible solution for
    advanced copper/low k interconnects. This Ecmp system removes
    bulk copper at a high rate by electric charge, making it ideal
    for fragile, ultra-low k films.


 



    Metrology
    and Wafer Inspection


 


    Applied offers several products for measuring and inspecting the
    wafer during various stages of the fabrication process:


 



    Critical
    Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes
    (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs)


 


    Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to
    form images of microscopic features, or critical dimensions
    (CDs), of a patterned wafer at extremely high magnification.
    Applied’s SEM products provide customers with full
    automation, along with the high accuracy and sensitivity needed
    for measuring very small CDs. The Applied
    VeritySEMtm
    Metrology system uses proprietary SEM imaging technology to
    enable precise control of the lithography and etching processes.
    The VeritySEM measures CDs with less than 5 angstrom precision,
    a requirement for 45nm device production, and incorporates
    automation and software advancements for significantly higher
    throughput in production. Applied’s OPC
    Checktm
    software for the VeritySEM system performs automated
    qualification of OPC-based (optical proximity correction) chip
    designs, significantly reducing mask (see Mask Making section
    below) verification time over conventional manual methods.


 


    DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (such as particles,
    scratches or residues) that are first located by a defect
    detection system and then classify the defects to identify their
    source. The high-throughput, fully automatic Applied
    SEMVisiontm
    G3 Defect Analysis products enable customers to use this
    technology as an integral part of their production lines to
    analyze defects as small as 30nm with industry-leading
    throughput. The Applied SEMVision G3 FIB integrates advanced
    defect review SEM capability with automated focused ion beam
    (FIB) technology in one system. The FIB provides a
    cross-sectional view of the defects reviewed by the SEM,
    enabling chipmakers to analyze the defects in minutes as part of
    their in-line review process.


 



    Wafer
    Inspection


 


    Using laser-based technology, defects can be detected on
    patterned wafers (wafers with printed circuit images) as they
    move between processing steps. Defects include particles, open
    circuit lines, and shorts between lines.



    
    5



Table of Contents




    Incorporating key advances in imaging technology, the Applied
    ComPlus
    3Ttm
    Inspection system, for darkfield applications, detects defects
    in devices with design rules of 65nm and below with the high
    speed required for customers’ volume production lines. The
    Applied
    UVisiontm
    Inspection system is the industry’s first laser-based,
    three dimensional brightfield tool. Utilizing multi-beam, deep
    ultraviolet (DUV) laser illumination and high efficiency
    detectors, the UVision system uncovers previously undetectable
    defects on the wafer, enabling customers to rapidly resolve
    defect issues and achieve greater chip yields.


 



    Mask
    Making


 


    Masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer
    microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since an imperfection
    in a mask may be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be
    virtually defect-free. Applied provides systems for etching,
    measuring and inspecting masks. In 2007, the Company introduced
    the Applied Tetra III Advanced Reticle Etch system, an
    advanced etch tool for fabricating masks, based on
    Applied’s production-proven, decoupled plasma source (DPS)
    wafer etch technology.


 



    Fab
    Solutions Segment


 


    Through Applied Global Services group, reported under its Fab
    Solutions segment, Applied provides products and services
    designed to improve the performance and productivity and reduce
    the environmental impact of the fab operations of semiconductor,
    LCD and solar cell manufacturers. The in-depth expertise and
    best known methods of Applied’s extensive global support
    infrastructure enable Applied to continuously support
    customers’ production requirements. Approximately 2,450
    trained customer engineers and process support engineers are
    deployed in more than a dozen countries. These engineers are
    usually located at or near customers’ fab sites and service
    over 22,000 installed Applied systems, as well as non-Applied
    systems. Applied offers three general types of services:


 


    Fab Services — Applied offers a portfolio of
    fab-wide operations services to maintain and optimize
    customers’ fabrication facilities. Applied Genuine Parts
    are spare parts manufactured to Applied’s strict technical
    specifications and quality standards. Applied Services provides
    customers with optimized tool performance for improved total
    cost of ownership and a higher return on investment. Through its
    Metron Chamber Performance Services unit, Applied is the
    industry’s leading provider of critical parts cleaning,
    coating refurbishment and analytical testing capabilities. In
    2007, Applied announced the opening of its Advanced Wafer
    Reclaim Center in Taiwan. Using state-of-the-art manufacturing
    systems and software at this center, Applied can extend the
    lifecycle of silicon test wafers by over 45% and reduce
    customers’ costs.


 


    Equipment Services — Applied provides
    remanufactured and refurbished systems, system enhancements and
    technical training, which are intended to optimize
    customers’ cost of ownership by increasing the efficiency
    and extending the life of their equipment. Applied also offers
    energy-saving solutions through its Metron
    EcoSystm
    products, the semiconductor industry’s most comprehensive
    line of point-of-use abatement systems. Applied’s EcoSys
    systems help enable chipmakers worldwide to meet environmental
    goals.


 


    Automation Services — Applied offers automated
    factory-level and tool-level control software systems for
    semiconductor, LCD and solar cell manufacturing facilities. In
    2007, Applied expanded its portfolio of software solutions with
    the acquisition of Brooks Software, a division of Brooks
    Automation, Inc. The Brooks Software products complement
    Applied’s existing software applications, allowing the
    Company to offer customers a comprehensive computer integrated
    manufacturing (CIM) solution. CIM solutions improve fab
    operation performance and provide real-time visibility to
    critical production processes for fast and informed
    decision-making. These enterprise solutions include
    manufacturing execution systems (MES) to automate the production
    of wafers and LCD and solar substrates, advanced process control
    systems, and scheduling and materials handling control systems.
    Applied also offers computerized maintenance management systems
    and performance tracking, and modeling and simulation tools for
    improving asset utilization.


 



    Display
    Segment


 


    Applied’s subsidiary AKT, reported under the Display
    segment, designs, manufactures and sells and services equipment
    to fabricate thin film transistor LCDs for televisions, computer
    displays and other consumer-oriented electronic applications.
    While similarities exist between the technologies utilized in
    chipmaking and LCD



    
    6



Table of Contents




    fabrication, the most significant differences are in the size
    and composition of the substrate. Substrates used to manufacture
    LCD panels can be more than 70 times larger in area than 300mm
    wafers and are made of glass, while wafers are made of silicon.
    AKT also develops, manufactures and supports differentiated
    stand-alone equipment for the Applied
    SunFabtm
    Thin Film Line, discussed further under the Adjacent
    Technologies segment.


 


    Applied supplies a wide range of systems that process and test
    different glass substrate sizes. To meet growing consumer demand
    for larger, more cost-efficient LCD TVs, LCD manufacturers have
    moved to larger-sized substrates. Applied’s latest
    Generation (Gen) 8.5 systems can process substrates sized at 2.2
    x 2.5 meters, which in turn enable the production of up to six
    55-inch LCD
    TV screens.


 


    For fabricating the transistor layer of Gen-8.5 panels, Applied
    offers the AKT-55K PECVD (plasma-enhanced CVD) system that
    uses multi-chamber platform architecture to deposit dielectric
    and semiconducting films. In 2007, the Company launched the
    AKT-PiVottm
    55KV system, which employs high-productivity, cost-efficient PVD
    technology to deposit metal and transparent conductive oxide
    films on the substrate. For manufacturing the color filter layer
    of LCD panels, Applied offers a fully automated, vertical
    sputtering system, the AKT-NEW
    ARISTOtm
    2200.


 


    Complementing these systems, Applied also offers electron beam
    systems for testing substrates during production for defective
    pixels and other imperfections. The AKT-55K EBT is a Gen-8.5
    tester that features one of the industry’s fastest and most
    accurate pixel test technology with the lowest operating cost.
    The electron beam system’s non-contact test technology
    enables safe testing of high-value LCD TV panels without
    damaging or scratching the display.


 



    Adjacent
    Technologies Segment


 


    The Energy and Environmental Solutions (EES) group, reported
    under the Adjacent Technologies segment, provides manufacturing
    solutions for the generation and conservation of energy. Applied
    entered the solar PV market in 2006 and announced its objective
    to lower the overall cost per watt of solar electricity to
    parity with that of electricity generated by other sources, such
    as the burning of fossil fuels. Applied offers manufacturing
    solutions for both wafer-based crystalline silicon (c-Si), and
    glass-based thin film applications to enable customers to
    increase the conversion efficiency and yields of PV devices.
    Applied’s products include large-area platforms such as the
    ATONtm
    in-line sputtering system for high-quality deposition and
    high-throughput in both c-Si and thin film PV cell
    manufacturing, as well as processes, materials-handling
    technologies and fabrication services.


 


    During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, Applied launched the
    Applied
    SunFabtm
    Thin Film Line, the world’s only integrated production line
    for manufacturing thin film silicon solar modules using
    5.7 square meter
    (m2)
    glass substrates. These ultra-large panels, which are
    approximately four times the size of thin film solar panels
    offered by others in the industry, are intended for large-scale
    applications such as solar farms and building-integrated PV
    system installations. Applied has entered into multiple
    contracts for its SunFab line with customers in Europe and Asia,
    which have not yet met Applied’s order recognition policy
    and accordingly have not been reported as new orders.


 


    Also in fiscal 2007, Applied expanded its capabilities and
    opportunities in the c-Si technology sector through its
    acquisition of HCT Shaping Systems SA, the world’s leading
    supplier of precision wafering systems used to make c-Si
    substrates. These systems reduce silicon consumption and cost by
    sectioning silicon ingots into ultra-thin wafers used to
    fabricate c-Si solar cells.


 


    Other products reported in this segment include roll-to-roll
    vacuum web coating systems for high-performance deposition of a
    range of films on flexible substrates for functional, aesthetic
    or optical properties. Applied also offers large-area sputtering
    equipment for the production of low-emissivity (Low-E) and solar
    control architectural glass.


 



    Backlog


 


    Applied’s backlog increased from $3.4 billion at
    October 29, 2006 to $3.7 billion at October 28,
    2007. Applied manufactures systems to meet demand represented by
    order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog includes only
    orders for which written authorizations have been accepted and
    shipment dates within 12 months have been assigned, or
    shipment has occurred but revenue has not been recognized, and
    also includes contractual service



    
    7



Table of Contents




    revenue and maintenance fees to be earned within the next
    12 months. Backlog adjustments were positive for fiscal
    2007 and totaled $300 million, consisting primarily of
    backlog obtained from acquired companies, partially offset by
    cancellations and currency adjustments. Customers may delay
    delivery of products or cancel orders prior to shipment, subject
    to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible changes in
    delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, Applied’s
    backlog on any particular date is not necessarily indicative of
    actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery
    schedules
    and/or a
    reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a
    material adverse effect on Applied’s business and results
    of operations.


 



    Manufacturing,
    Raw Materials and Supplies


 


    Applied’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of
    procurement, assembly, test and integration of various
    proprietary and commercial parts, components and subassemblies
    (parts) that are used to manufacture systems. Products in the
    Silicon segment are manufactured in Austin, Texas and Rehovot,
    Israel. Remanufactured products in the Fab Solutions segment are
    produced primarily in Austin, Texas. Products in the Display
    segment are manufactured in Santa Clara, California,
    Alzenau, Germany, and Tainan, Taiwan. Products in the Adjacent
    Technologies segment are manufactured primarily in Alzenau,
    Germany, Cheseaux, Switzerland, and Santa Clara,
    California. Manufacturing requires raw materials, including a
    wide variety of mechanical and electrical components, to be
    manufactured to Applied’s specifications. Applied uses
    numerous companies to supply parts for the manufacture and
    support of its products. Although Applied makes reasonable
    efforts to assure that parts are available from multiple,
    qualified suppliers, this is not always possible. Accordingly,
    some key parts may be obtained from only a single supplier or a
    limited group of suppliers. Applied seeks to reduce costs and to
    lower the risks of production and service interruptions, as well
    as shortages of key parts, by: (1) qualifying and selecting
    alternate suppliers for key parts; (2) monitoring the
    financial condition of key suppliers; (3) maintaining
    appropriate inventories of key parts; and (4) qualifying
    new parts on a timely basis.


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering


 


    Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued
    development of new products. Applied’s significant
    investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E)
    has generally enabled it to deliver new products and
    technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus
    allowing customers to incorporate these products into their
    manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology
    selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers
    to design systems and processes that meet their planned
    technical and production requirements. Product development and
    engineering organizations are located primarily in the United
    States, as well as in Europe and Israel. In addition, Applied
    outsources certain RD&E activities, some of which are
    performed outside the United States. Process support and
    customer demonstration laboratories are located in the United
    States, China, Europe and Israel.


 


    Applied invested $1.1 billion (12 percent of net
    sales) in fiscal 2007, $1.2 billion (13 percent of net
    sales) in fiscal 2006 and $941 million (13 percent of
    net sales) in fiscal 2005 in RD&E for product development
    and engineering programs to create new products and to improve
    existing technologies and products. Applied has spent an average
    of 13 percent of net sales in RD&E over the last five
    years. In addition to RD&E for specific product
    technologies, Applied maintains ongoing programs for automation
    control systems, materials research and environmental control
    that have applications to its products. In fiscal 2007, Applied
    focused on developing systems for customers’ new chip
    designs with 45nm and below geometries, including systems to
    enable faster transistors using strain engineering and high-k
    metal gates, and patterning processes that will enable customers
    to extend their existing 193nm lithography tools through
    additional technology generations.


 



    Marketing
    and Sales


 


    Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied
    markets and sells products worldwide through a direct sales
    force. More than 84 percent of Applied’s fiscal
    2007 net sales were to regions outside of the
    United States. Net sales to customers by region as a
    percentage of total net sales were: Taiwan 28 percent,
    Korea 19 percent, North America (primarily the United
    States) 16 percent, Japan 15 percent, Asia-Pacific
    (including China) 12 percent, and Europe 10 percent.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    General economic conditions impact Applied’s business and
    financial results. From time to time, the markets in which
    products are sold experience weak economic conditions that may
    negatively impact sales. Applied’s business is usually not
    seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical, based on capital
    equipment investment by major semiconductor, flat panel display
    and other manufacturers. These expenditures depend on many
    factors, including: anticipated market demand and pricing for
    semiconductors, LCDs, solar cells, architectural glass and other
    substrates; the development of new technologies; factory
    utilization; and global and regional economic conditions.


 


    Applied manages its business and reports financial results based
    on the segments described above, but does not allocate certain
    sales and marketing costs to the segments.


 


    Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and
    long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic
    regions is included in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. accounted
    for 12 percent of Applied’s net sales in fiscal 2007,
    11 percent of Applied’s net sales in fiscal 2006, and
    10 percent of Applied’s net sales in fiscal 2005.
    These net sales were for products in multiple reportable
    segments.


 



    Competition


 


    The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive
    and characterized by rapid technological change. Applied’s
    ability to compete generally depends on its ability to timely
    commercialize its technology, continually improve its products
    and develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer
    requirements. Significant competitive factors include technical
    capability and differentiation, productivity and
    cost-effectiveness. The importance of these factors varies
    according to customers’ needs, including product mix and
    respective product requirements, applications, and the timing
    and circumstances of purchasing decisions. Substantial
    competition exists in all areas of Applied’s business.
    Competitors range from small companies that compete with a
    single product
    and/or in a
    single region, to global, diversified companies with a range of
    products. Applied’s ability to compete requires a high
    level of investment in RD&E and in marketing, sales and
    customer support activities. Management believes that many of
    Applied’s products have strong competitive positions.


 


    The competitive environment for each segment is described below:


 


    The semiconductor industry has been increasingly driven by
    consumer demand for lower-cost electronic products with
    increased capability and, to a lesser extent, by demand for
    commercial applications. As a result, products within the
    Silicon segment are subject to rapid changes in customer
    requirements, including transitions to smaller dimensions,
    larger wafer sizes, new materials and an increasing number of
    applications. While certain existing technologies may be adapted
    to new requirements, some applications create the need for an
    entirely different technical approach. The rapid pace of
    technological change can quickly diminish the value of current
    technologies and create opportunities for many existing and new
    competitors. Applied offers a broad portfolio of technically
    differentiated products that must continuously evolve to satisfy
    customers’ requirements in order to compete effectively.
    Applied allocates resources among its many product offerings and
    therefore may decide not to invest in an individual product to
    the same degree as competitors who specialize in fewer products.
    There are many competitors serving the semiconductor
    manufacturing equipment industry, with some offering a single
    product line and others offering multiple product lines. These
    competitors range from suppliers serving a single region to
    global, diversified companies.


 


    Products and services within the Fab Solutions segment are
    characterized by demanding worldwide service requirements and a
    diverse group of numerous competitors. To compete effectively,
    Applied offers products and services to reduce costs, improve
    productivity, and lessen the environmental impact of
    customers’ fab operations. Significant competitive factors
    include productivity, cost-effectiveness, and the level of
    technical service and support. The importance of these factors
    varies according to customers’ needs and the type of
    products or services offered.


 


    Products in the Display segment are subject to strong
    competition from a number of major competitors. Applied holds
    established market positions with its technically differentiated
    LCD manufacturing solutions for the PECVD, color filter (CF)
    sputtering and array testing, although its market position can
    change rapidly if it does not meet customers’ requirements.
    Applied introduced a new array sputtering tool in fiscal 2007.
    As a recent entrant, Applied faces significant competition from
    existing array sputtering suppliers.



    
    9



Table of Contents




    Applied’s products within the Adjacent Technologies segment
    compete in diverse market areas, including equipment to make
    solar cells, flexible electronics and energy-efficient glass. In
    solar, Applied offers products for two distinct technologies,
    c-Si wafer-based and thin film (glass) modules. As a recent
    entrant to the solar equipment business, Applied competes with
    many other companies that have more experience with solar
    applications. Applied also is a recent entrant to the flexible
    electronics equipment business, which operates in an emerging
    market sector characterized by diverse types of applications,
    customer requirements and competitors. Applied’s glass
    coating equipment faces significant competition from at least
    one established supplier and another recent market entrant.


 



    Patents
    and Licenses


 


    Management believes that Applied’s competitive position
    significantly depends upon the Company’s research,
    development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing
    capabilities, and not just on its patent position. However,
    protection of Applied’s technological assets by obtaining
    and enforcing intellectual property rights, including patents,
    is important. Therefore, Applied’s practice is to file
    patent applications in the United States and other countries for
    inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has a
    substantial number of patents in the United States and other
    countries, and additional applications are pending for new
    inventions. Although Applied does not consider its business
    materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied
    and the products made and sold under its patents, taken as a
    whole, are a significant element of Applied’s business. In
    addition to patents, Applied also possesses other intellectual
    property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets and
    copyrights.


 


    Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements
    with other companies when management determines that it is in
    its best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under
    existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of
    its products, of certain patented technologies that are licensed
    to Applied for the life of the patents. Applied also receives
    royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties
    received from or paid to third parties have not been, and are
    not expected to be, material to Applied’s consolidated
    results of operations.


 


    In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives
    and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In
    dealing with such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful
    for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights.
    However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights
    will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms,
    or at all. If Applied is not able to resolve or settle claims,
    obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms,
    and/or
    successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    Two of Applied’s locations have been designated as
    environmental cleanup sites. In 1987, the United States
    Environmental Protection Agency designated one of the locations,
    in Santa Clara, California, as a Superfund site and named
    Applied as a “Responsible Party.” Cleanup activities
    at this site began in 1984 and were substantially completed in
    February 2002. The California Regional Water Quality Control
    Board designated Applied as a “Discharger” with
    respect to another site in Sunnyvale, California. Applied was
    named a Discharger upon its acquisition of the property in 1997
    solely due to its status as property owner. The prior owners of
    the site
    and/or
    operators who caused the contamination are responsible for
    performing cleanup and monitoring activities.


 


    Applied maintains a number of environmental, health and safety
    programs that are primarily preventive in nature. As part of
    these programs, Applied regularly monitors ongoing compliance
    and periodically conducts investigations of possible
    contamination.


 


    Compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating
    the discharge of materials into the environment, remedial
    agreements and other actions relating to the environment have
    not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on
    Applied’s capital expenditures, competitive position,
    financial condition or results of operations.


 


    The most recent report on Applied’s environmental, health
    and safety activities can be found on the Company’s website
    at
    http://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/environment.html.
    This report is updated periodically. This website address is
    intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the
    information contained on Applied’s website is part of this
    report or is incorporated by reference herein.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Employees


 


    At October 28, 2007, Applied employed 14,550 regular
    employees and 778 temporary employees. In the high-technology
    industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense.
    Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent
    upon its continued ability to attract, retain and motivate
    qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will
    be able to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient
    number of qualified employees.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    The following table and notes set forth information about
    Applied’s executive officers:


 




     	
     	
     	





    Name of Individual



 



    Position




 





    James C. Morgan(1)



 


    Chairman of the Board of Directors





    Michael R. Splinter(2)



 


    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director





    Franz Janker(3)



 


    Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing





    George S. Davis(4)



 


    Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer





    Manfred Kerschbaum(5)



 


    Senior Vice President, General Manager Applied Global Services





    Mark R. Pinto(6)



 


    Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and General
    Manager Energy and Environmental Solutions





    Thomas St. Dennis(7)



 


    Senior Vice President, General Manager Silicon Systems Group





    Joseph J. Sweeney(8)



 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary





    Gilad Almogy(9)



 


    Group Vice President, General Manager Display Products and
    Process Diagnostics and Control Business Group





    Ron Kifer(10)



 


    Group Vice President, Chief Information Officer, Global
    Information Services





    Jeannette L. Liebman(11)



 


    Group Vice President, Global Human Resources





    Menachem Erad(12)



 


    Group Vice President, Chief of Staff





    Yvonne Weatherford(13)



 


    Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Mr. Morgan, age 69, has been Chairman of the Board of
    Directors of Applied since 1987. Mr. Morgan served as
    Applied’s Chief Executive Officer from February 1977 to
    April 2003, and as Applied’s President from 1976 to 1987.



 


    
    (2) 
    
    
    Mr. Splinter, age 57, has been President, Chief
    Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of
    Applied since joining Applied in April 2003. Prior to joining
    Applied, Mr. Splinter worked for nearly 20 years at
    Intel Corporation (Intel). Most recently he was Executive Vice
    President and Director of the Sales and Marketing Group at
    Intel, responsible for sales and operations worldwide.
    Mr. Splinter previously held various executive positions at
    Intel, including Executive Vice President and General Manager of
    the Technology and Manufacturing Group.



 


    
    (3) 
    
    
    Mr. Janker, age 58, has been the head of Sales and
    Marketing since May 2003. Beginning in May 2003, he was Senior
    Vice President, Sales and Marketing, and in December 2004 he was
    promoted to Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing. He
    served as Senior Vice President, Global Operations and Corporate
    Marketing beginning in December of 2002. From December 1998 to
    2002, he served as Group Vice President, Corporate Marketing and
    Business Management. From 1982 to 1998, Mr. Janker served
    in a variety of sales and marketing management positions with
    Applied in the United States and Europe.



 


    
    (4) 
    
    
    Mr. Davis, age 50, was promoted to Senior Vice
    President, Chief Financial Officer in December 2006.
    Mr. Davis was appointed Group Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer effective November 1, 2006. Previously,
    he had been Group Vice President, General Manager Corporate
    Business Development since February 2005. From November 1999 to
    February 2005, Mr. Davis served as Vice President and
    Corporate Treasurer, where he managed Applied’s worldwide
    treasury operations and was responsible for investments, tax,
    financial risk management, and trade and export matters.
    Mr. Davis joined Applied in 1999.



 


    
    (5) 
    
    
    Mr. Kerschbaum, age 53, has been Senior Vice
    President, General Manager, Applied Global Services since
    January 2005. He was Group Vice President, Global Operations
    from July 2004 to January 2005 and from 





    
    11



Table of Contents






    
    
    



    

    
    
    October 2002 to May 2003. From May 2003 to July 2004, he was
    Group Vice President, Foundation Engineering and Operations.
    From March 1997 to October 2002, he held various positions in
    Applied Materials North America, most recently as Group Vice
    President, General Manager, Applied Materials North America.
    Mr. Kerschbaum has served in various other operations,
    customer service and engineering positions since joining Applied
    in 1983.



 


    
    (6) 
    
    
    Dr. Pinto, age 47, has served as Senior Vice
    President, Chief Technology Officer and General Manager, Energy
    and Environmental Solutions (formerly known as New Business and
    New Products) since joining Applied in January 2004. Prior to
    his appointment, Dr. Pinto spent 19 years with Bell
    Laboratories and the Lucent Microelectronics Group, which later
    became Agere Systems Inc., most recently as Vice President of
    the Analog Products Division. Dr. Pinto holds a Ph.D in
    Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.



 


    
    (7) 
    
    
    Mr. St. Dennis, age 54, was appointed Senior Vice
    President, General Manager, Silicon Systems Group in June 2007.
    Mr. St. Dennis returned to Applied in September 2005 as
    Senior Vice President, General Manager Etch, Cleans, Front End
    and Implant Product Business Groups. He previously was with
    Applied from 1992 to 1999, most recently as Group Vice
    President, Planarization and Dielectric Deposition Product
    Business Group, and before that as Corporate Vice President,
    Physical Vapor Deposition Product Business Group. From 2003 to
    2005, Mr. St. Dennis was an Executive Vice President and
    member of the Office of the CEO of Novellus Systems, Inc. He
    served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Wind River
    Systems, Inc. from 1999 to 2003.



 


    
    (8) 
    
    
    Mr. Sweeney, age 59, has held the position of Senior
    Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of
    Applied since July 2005, with responsibility for global legal
    affairs, intellectual property and security. From April 2002 to
    July 2005, Mr. Sweeney was Group Vice President, Legal
    Affairs and Intellectual Property, and Corporate Secretary.
    Mr. Sweeney joined Applied in 1993.



 


    
    (9) 
    
    
    Dr. Almogy, age 42, was appointed Group Vice
    President, General Manager, Display Products and Process
    Diagnostics and Control Business Group in August 2007. From July
    2005 to August 2007, Dr. Almogy served as Group Vice
    President, General Manager, Process Diagnostics and Control
    Product Business Group. He was Corporate Vice President, General
    Manager of the group from April 2002 to July 2005, and Vice
    President and Co-General Manager of the group from December 2000
    to April 2002. He has held various other positions since joining
    Applied in 1997 when Applied acquired Orbot Instruments, Ltd.
    Dr. Almogy holds a Ph.D in Applied Physics from the
    California Institute of Technology.



 


    
    (10) 
    
    
    Mr. Kifer, age 56, joined Applied in May 2006 as Group
    Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Global Information
    Services. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Kifer spent five
    years with DHL in various executive management roles, most
    recently as the Senior Vice President and Chief Information
    Officer for North America, Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets.



 


    
    (11) 
    
    
    Ms. Liebman, age 60, has served as Group Vice
    President, Global Human Resources since July 2005.
    Ms. Liebman served as Corporate Vice President, Global
    Human Resources from August 2003 to July 2005. Prior to joining
    Applied in 2003, Ms. Liebman held various human resources
    positions at Intel.



 


    
    (12) 
    
    
    Mr. Erad, age 59, was appointed Group Vice President,
    Chief of Staff in February 2005. From January 2004 to February
    2005, Mr. Erad served as Group Vice President, Strategic
    Planning and New Technology. He served as Group Vice President,
    New Business and New Products Group from May 2003 to January
    2004. Mr. Erad joined Applied in 2002 as Group Vice
    President, Strategic Planning and New Business Development.



 


    
    (13) 
    
    
    Ms. Weatherford, age 56, has served as Corporate Vice
    President, Corporate Controller since December 2004.
    Ms. Weatherford was Appointed Vice President, Business
    Operations Controller from December 2001 to December 2004, and
    Appointed Vice President, Financial Operations Controller from
    October 2000 to December 2001. She has held various other
    finance roles since joining Applied in 1990.




 



    Available
    Information


 


    Applied’s website is
    http://www.appliedmaterials.com.
    Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its
    website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any
    amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable
    after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing
    them to, the SEC. This website address is intended to be an
    inactive textual reference only and none of the information
    contained on Applied’s website is part of this report or is
    incorporated by reference herein.



    
    12



Table of Contents







 




    
    



    
    Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The following factors could materially affect Applied’s
    business, financial condition or results of operations and
    should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its
    business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere
    in this report.


 



    The
    industries that Applied serves are volatile and
    unpredictable.


 


    As a supplier to the global semiconductor, flat panel display,
    solar and related industries, Applied is subject to business
    cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be
    difficult to predict and which may vary by reportable segment.
    The industries have historically been cyclical due to sudden
    changes in customers’ manufacturing capacity requirements
    and spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization,
    demand for customers’ products, and inventory levels
    relative to demand. The effects on Applied of these changes in
    demand, including end-customer demand, are occurring more
    rapidly. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of
    customers’ purchases and investments in technology, and
    continue to affect Applied’s orders, net sales, gross
    margin, contributed profit and results of operations.


 


    Applied must effectively manage its resources and production
    capacity to meet rapidly changing demand. During periods of
    decreasing demand Applied’s products, Applied must be able
    to appropriately align its cost structure with prevailing market
    conditions, motivate and retain key employees, and effectively
    manage its supply chain. During periods of increasing demand,
    Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and
    inventory to meet customer demand; attract, retain and motivate
    a sufficient number of qualified individuals; and effectively
    manage its supply chain. If Applied is not able to timely and
    appropriately adapt to changes in industry cycles,
    Applied’s business, financial condition or results of
    operations may be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the
    semiconductor and
    semiconductor-related
    industries.


 


    The global industries in which Applied operates are
    characterized by ongoing changes, including: (1) higher
    capital requirements for building and operating new
    semiconductor and LCD fabrication plants and the resulting
    effect on customers’ ability to raise the necessary
    capital; (2) differing rates of market growth for, and
    capital investments by, various semiconductor device makers,
    such as memory (including NAND Flash and DRAM), logic and
    foundry, as well as LCD and solar manufacturers;
    (3) industry growth rates; (4) the increasing cost and
    decreasing affordability of research and development due to many
    factors, including decreasing linewidths, the increasing number
    of materials, applications and process steps, and the greater
    complexity of process development and chip design; (5) the
    increasing difficulty for customers to move from product design
    to volume manufacturing; (6) the importance of reducing the
    cost of system ownership, due in part to the increasing
    significance of consumer electronics as a driver for
    semiconductor and LCD demand and the related focus on lower
    prices; (7) varying levels of business information
    technology spending; (8) the heightened importance to
    customers of system reliability and productivity, and the effect
    on demand for systems as a result of their increasing
    productivity, device yield and reliability; (9) the growing
    types and varieties of semiconductors and expanding number of
    applications across multiple substrate sizes, resulting in
    customers’ divergent technical demands; (10) demand
    for shorter cycle times for the development, manufacture and
    installation of manufacturing equipment; (11) the challenge
    to semiconductor manufacturers of moving volume manufacturing
    from one technology node to the next smaller technology node,
    and the resulting impact on the technology transition rate and
    the rate of investment in capital equipment; (12) price
    trends for certain semiconductor devices and LCDs;
    (13) difficulties associated with transitioning to larger
    substrate sizes; and (14) the increasing importance of the
    availability of spare parts to assure maximum system uptime. If
    Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    the ongoing changes occurring in the semiconductor and
    semiconductor-related industries, its business, financial
    condition and results of operations could be materially and
    adversely affected.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    Applied
    must adapt its business and product offerings to respond to
    competition and rapid technological changes.


 


    As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment, its
    future success depends on many factors, including the effective
    development, commercialization and customer acceptance of its
    nanomanufacturing technology equipment, service and related
    products. In addition, Applied must successfully execute its
    growth strategy, including enhancing market share in existing
    markets, expanding into related markets, and cultivating new
    markets, while constantly improving its operational performance.
    The development, introduction and support of a broadening set of
    products in more varied competitive environments have grown
    increasingly complex and expensive over time. Applied’s
    success is subject to many risks, including but not limited to
    its ability to timely, cost-effectively and successfully:
    (1) improve
    and/or
    develop new applications for existing products, adapt similar
    products for use by customers in different applications
    and/or
    markets with varying technical requirements, and develop new
    products; (2) appropriately price and achieve market
    acceptance of products; (3) maintain operating flexibility
    to enable different responses to different markets, customers
    and applications; (4) appropriately allocate resources,
    including RD&E funding, among Applied’s products and
    between the development of new products and the improvement of
    existing products; (5) accurately forecast demand and meet
    production schedules for its products; (6) achieve cost
    efficiencies across product offerings; (7) increase market
    share in existing markets, expand its markets and exceed the
    industry growth rate; (8) adapt to technology changes in
    related markets, such as lithography; (9) adapt to changes
    in value offered by companies in different parts of the supply
    chain; (10) qualify products for volume manufacturing with
    its customers; (11) implement changes in its design
    engineering methodology, including those that enable significant
    decreases in material costs and cycle time, greater commonality
    of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and
    greater effectiveness of product life cycle management; and
    (12) improve its manufacturing processes. Furthermore, new
    or improved products may involve higher costs and reduced
    margins. If Applied does not successfully manage these
    challenges, its business, financial condition and results of
    operations could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    The
    entry into new markets and industries entails additional
    challenges.


 


    As part of its growth strategy, Applied must successfully expand
    into related or new markets and industries, either with its
    existing nanomanufacturing technology products or with new
    products developed internally or obtained through acquisitions.
    These include the emerging solar market, which Applied entered
    in 2006 and which is subject to ongoing changes in demand for
    photovoltaic (PV) products arising from, among other things,
    fluctuations in the cost of electric power, availability of
    government incentives, changes in government energy policies,
    the performance and reliability of PV technology, and the
    success of other renewable energy sources. The entry into
    different markets involves additional challenges, including
    those arising from: (1) Applied’s ability to
    anticipate demand and capitalize on opportunities, and avoid or
    minimize risks; (2) new customers and suppliers, including
    some with limited operating histories, uncertain
    and/or
    limited funding,
    and/or
    locations in regions where Applied does not have existing
    operations; (3) the adoption of new business models, such
    as the supply of a suite of Applied and non-Applied equipment
    sufficient to manufacture solar cells; (4) difficulties in
    production planning and execution; (5) new materials,
    processes and technologies; (6) Applied’s ability to
    drive efficiencies and cost reductions; (7) the need to
    attract, motivate and retain employees with skills and expertise
    in these new areas; (8) different service requirements; and
    (9) intellectual property rights of others. If Applied does
    not successfully manage the risks resulting from entry into new
    markets and industries, its business, financial condition and
    results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to the risks of operating a global
    business.


 


    In fiscal 2007, approximately 84 percent of Applied’s
    net sales were to customers in regions outside the
    United States. A rising percentage of Applied’s
    business is from customers in Asia. Certain of Applied’s
    RD&E
    and/or
    manufacturing facilities, as well as suppliers to Applied, are
    also located outside the United States, including in China.
    Managing Applied’s global operations presents challenges,
    including but not limited to, those arising from:
    (1) global uncertainties with respect to economic growth
    rates in various countries; (2) varying regional and
    geopolitical business conditions and demands; (3) global
    trade issues; (4) variations in protection of intellectual
    property and other legal rights in different countries;
    (5) concerns of U.S. governmental agencies regarding
    possible



    
    14



Table of Contents




    national commercial
    and/or
    security issues posed by the growing manufacturing business in
    Asia; (6) fluctuating raw material and energy costs;
    (7) variations in the ability to develop relationships with
    suppliers and other local businesses; (8) changes in laws
    and regulations of the United States (including export
    restrictions) and other countries, as well as their
    interpretation and application; (9) fluctuations in
    interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the
    weakening relative position of the U.S. dollar;
    (10) the need to provide sufficient levels of technical
    support in different locations; (11) political instability,
    natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or storms),
    pandemics, terrorism or acts of war in locations where Applied
    has operations, suppliers or sales; (12) cultural
    differences; (13) special customer- or government-supported
    efforts to promote the development and growth of local
    competitors; (14) shipping costs
    and/or
    delays; and (15) adverse conditions in credit markets. Many
    of these challenges are present in China, which is experiencing
    significant growth of both suppliers and competitors to Applied,
    and which Applied believes presents a large potential market for
    its products and opportunity for growth over the long term. In
    addition, Applied must regularly reassess the size, capability
    and location of its global infrastructure and make appropriate
    changes. These challenges may materially and adversely affect
    Applied’s business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated
    customer base in the semiconductor and flat panel display
    industries.


 


    Applied’s semiconductor and flat panel display customer
    base historically has been, and is becoming even more, highly
    concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of
    manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to continue
    to account for, a substantial portion of Applied’s net
    sales. In addition, the mix and type of customers, and sales to
    any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to
    quarter and from year to year. If customers do not place orders,
    or they delay or cancel orders, Applied may not be able to
    replace the business. As Applied’s products are configured
    to customer specifications, changing, rescheduling or canceling
    orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. Major
    customers may also seek, and on occasion receive, pricing,
    payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial
    terms that are less favorable to Applied. In addition, certain
    customers have undergone significant ownership changes, have
    outsourced manufacturing activities,
    and/or have
    entered into strategic alliances or industry consortia that have
    increased the influence of key semiconductor manufacturers in
    technology decisions made by their partners, which may result in
    additional complexities in managing customer relationships and
    transactions. These factors could have a material, adverse
    effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and strategic
    investments.


 


    Applied has made, and in the future intends to make,
    acquisitions of, and investments in, companies, technologies or
    products in existing, related or new markets for Applied.
    Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited
    to: (1) diversion of management’s attention from other
    operational matters; (2) inability to complete acquisitions
    as anticipated or at all; (3) inability to realize
    anticipated benefits; (4) failure to commercialize
    purchased technologies; (5) inability to capitalize on
    characteristics of new markets that may be significantly
    different from Applied’s existing markets;
    (6) exposure to operational risks, rules and regulations to
    the extent such activities are located in countries where
    Applied has not historically done business; (7) inability
    to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key
    technologies; (8) ineffectiveness of an acquired
    company’s internal controls; (9) impairment of
    acquired intangible assets as a result of technological
    advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired
    company or its product offerings; (10) unknown,
    underestimated
    and/or
    undisclosed commitments or liabilities; (11) excess or
    underutilized facilities; and (12) ineffective integration
    of operations, technologies, products or employees of the
    acquired companies. Applied also makes strategic investments in
    other companies, including companies formed as joint ventures,
    which may decline in value
    and/or not
    meet desired objectives. The success of these investments
    depends on various factors over which Applied may have limited
    or no control and, particularly with respect to joint ventures,
    requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic
    partners. Mergers and acquisitions and strategic investments are
    inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to
    effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely
    affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results
    of operations.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Manufacturing
    interruptions or delays could affect Applied’s ability to
    meet customer demand, while the failure to estimate customer
    demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete
    inventory.


 


    Applied’s business depends on its ability to supply
    equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly
    changing technical and volume requirements of its customers,
    which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts,
    components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from
    suppliers. Some key parts may be subject to long lead-times
    and/or
    obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of
    suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by
    suppliers in developing regions, including China. Significant
    interruptions of manufacturing operations or the delivery of
    services as a result of: (1) the failure or inability of
    suppliers to timely deliver quality parts; (2) volatility
    in the availability and cost of materials; (3) difficulties
    or delays in obtaining required export approvals;
    (4) information technology or infrastructure failures;
    (5) natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or
    storms); or (6) other causes (such as regional economic
    downturns, pandemics, political instability, terrorism, or acts
    of war), could result in delayed deliveries, manufacturing
    inefficiencies, increased costs or order cancellations.
    Moreover, if actual demand for Applied’s products is
    different than expected, Applied may purchase more/fewer parts
    than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or
    expediting delivery of parts. Any or all of these factors could
    materially and adversely affect Applied’s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    The
    failure to successfully implement and conduct offshoring and
    outsourcing activities and other operational initiatives could
    adversely affect results of operations.


 


    To better align its costs with market conditions, increase its
    presence in growing markets, improve its tax structure, and
    enhance productivity and operational efficiency, Applied
    conducts engineering, software development and other operations
    in regions outside the United States, particularly India and
    China, and outsources certain functions to third parties,
    including companies in the United States, India, China and other
    countries. Outsourced functions include certain engineering,
    manufacturing, customer support, software development,
    information technology support and administrative activities.
    The expanding role of third party providers has required changes
    to Applied’s existing operations and the adoption of new
    procedures and processes for retaining and managing these
    providers in order to realize the potential productivity and
    operational efficiencies, assure quality and protect
    Applied’s intellectual property. In addition, Applied has
    implemented several key, operational initiatives intended to
    improve manufacturing efficiency, including integrate-to-order,
    module-final-test and
    merge-in-transit
    programs. Applied also is implementing a multi-year,
    company-wide program to transform certain business processes,
    which includes transitioning to a single-vendor, enterprise
    resource planning (ERP) software system to perform various
    functions. If Applied does not effectively develop and implement
    its offshoring and outsourcing strategies, if required export
    and other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if
    Applied’s third party providers do not perform as
    anticipated, or if there are delays or difficulties in
    implementing a new ERP system or enhancing business processes,
    Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or
    cost efficiencies, and may experience operational difficulties,
    increased costs, manufacturing interruptions or delays, loss of
    its intellectual property rights, quality issues, increased
    product time-to-market
    and/or
    inefficient allocation of human resources, any or all of which
    could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    The
    ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital
    to Applied’s success.


 


    Applied’s success and competitiveness depend in large part
    on its ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees.
    Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors,
    including fluctuations in global economic and industry
    conditions, changes in Applied’s management or leadership,
    competitors’ hiring practices, and the effectiveness of
    Applied’s compensation programs, including its equity-based
    programs. Applied regularly evaluates its overall compensation
    program and makes adjustments, as appropriate, to enhance its
    competitiveness. If Applied does not successfully attract,
    retain and motivate key employees, Applied’s ability to
    capitalize on its opportunities and its operating results may be
    materially and adversely affected.



    
    16



Table of Contents





    Changes
    in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect results of
    operations.


 


    As a global company, Applied is subject to taxation in the
    United States and various other countries. Significant judgment
    is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities.
    Applied’s future annual and quarterly tax rates could be
    affected by numerous factors, including changes in the:
    (1) applicable tax laws; (2) composition of earnings
    in countries with differing tax rates; or (3) valuation of
    Applied’s deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition,
    Applied is subject to regular examination of its income tax
    returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax
    authorities. Applied regularly assesses the likelihood of
    favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these
    examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for
    income taxes. Although Applied believes its tax estimates are
    reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final
    determination will not be materially different from the
    treatment reflected in Applied’s historical income tax
    provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely
    affect Applied’s results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or
    claims and protection of intellectual property
    rights.


 


    Applied from time to time is, and in the future may be, involved
    in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement,
    intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental
    regulations, securities, contracts, product performance, product
    liability, unfair competition, employment and other matters. In
    addition, Applied on occasion receives notification from
    customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or
    other obligations related to claims made against customers by
    third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with
    or without merit, may be time-consuming and expensive to
    prosecute or defend and also divert management’s attention
    and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome
    of current or future legal proceedings or claims. Applied
    previously entered into a mutual covenant-not-to-sue arrangement
    with one of its competitors to decrease the risk of patent
    infringement lawsuits in the future. There can be no assurance
    that the intended results of this arrangement will be achieved
    or that Applied will be able to adequately protect its
    intellectual property rights with the restrictions associated
    with such a covenant. In addition, Applied’s success
    depends in significant part on the protection of its
    intellectual property and other rights. Infringement of
    Applied’s rights by a third party, such as the unauthorized
    manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts, could result in
    uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied.
    Applied’s intellectual property rights may not provide
    significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented,
    invalidated, rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of
    technological change, or if Applied does not adequately assert
    these rights. Furthermore, the laws and practices of other
    countries, including China, Taiwan and Korea, permit the
    protection and enforcement of Applied’s rights to varying
    extents, which may not be sufficient to protect Applied’s
    rights. If Applied is not able to obtain or enforce intellectual
    property rights, resolve or settle claims, obtain necessary
    licenses on commercially reasonable terms,
    and/or
    successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental and
    safety regulations.


 


    Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in
    connection with its global business operations, including but
    not limited to: regulations related to the development,
    manufacture and use of its products; recycling and disposal of
    materials used in its products; the operation of its facilities;
    and the use of its real property. The failure or inability to
    comply with existing or future environmental and safety
    regulations could result in: (1) significant remediation
    liabilities; (2) the imposition of fines; (3) the
    suspension or termination of the development, manufacture, sale
    or use of certain of its products; (4) limitations on the
    operation of its facilities or ability to use its real property;
    and/or
    (5) a decrease in the value of its real property, each of
    which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory
    environment.


 


    Applied is subject to various risks related to: (1) new,
    different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and
    regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies
    and/or
    regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates;
    (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional
    regulatory agencies related to international trade; and
    (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and
    regulations. If Applied is found by a court or



    
    17



Table of Contents




    regulatory agency not to be in compliance with applicable laws,
    rules or regulations, Applied’s business, financial
    condition and results of operations could be materially and
    adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is subject to internal control evaluations and attestation
    requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act.


 


    Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
    Applied must include in its Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    a report of management on the effectiveness of Applied’s
    internal control over financial reporting. Ongoing compliance
    with this requirement is complex, costly and time-consuming. If:
    (1) Applied fails to maintain effective internal control
    over financial reporting; (2) Applied’s management
    does not timely assess the adequacy of such internal control; or
    (3) Applied’s independent registered public accounting
    firm does not timely deliver an unqualified opinion as to the
    effectiveness of Applied’s internal controls, Applied could
    be subject to regulatory sanctions and the public’s
    perception of Applied may decline.






 




    
    



    
    Item 1B