Item 1A, which is incorporated
    herein by reference.


 



    Silicon
    Segment


 


    Applied’s Silicon Systems Group (SSG), reported under its
    Silicon segment, develops, manufactures and sells a wide range
    of manufacturing equipment used to fabricate semiconductor
    chips, also referred to as integrated circuits (ICs). Most chips
    are built on a silicon wafer base and include a variety of
    circuit components, such as transistors and other devices, that
    are connected by multiple layers of wiring (interconnects).
    Applied offers systems that perform most of the primary
    processes used in chip fabrication including: atomic layer
    deposition (ALD), chemical vapor deposition (CVD), physical
    vapor deposition (PVD), etch, rapid thermal processing (RTP),
    chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) and wafer metrology and
    inspection, as well as systems that etch, clean, measure and
    inspect circuit patterns on masks used in the photolithography
    process. Applied’s semiconductor manufacturing systems are
    used by both integrated device manufacturers and foundries to
    build memory, logic and other types of chips.


 


    To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors and other circuit
    components are first created on the surface of the wafer by
    performing a series of processes to deposit and selectively
    remove portions of successive film layers. Similar processes are
    then used to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer.
    As the density of the circuit components increases to enable
    greater computing capability in the same or smaller area, the
    complexity of building the chip also increases, necessitating
    more process steps to form smaller structures and more intricate
    wiring schemes. A typical, simplified process sequence for
    building the wiring or interconnect portion of a chip involves
    initially depositing a dielectric film layer onto the base layer
    of circuit components using a CVD system. An etch system is then
    used to create openings and patterns in the dielectric layer. To
    form the metal interconnects, these openings and patterns are
    subsequently filled with conducting material using PVD
    and/or
    electroplating technologies. A CMP step then polishes the wafer
    to achieve a flat surface. Additional deposition, etch and CMP
    steps are then performed to build up the layers needed to
    complete the interconnection of the circuit elements. Advanced
    chip designs require about 500 steps involving these and other
    processes to complete the manufacturing cycle.


 


    While some device manufacturers are still using aluminum as the
    main conducting material for building interconnect structures,
    most have transitioned to copper. Copper has lower resistance
    than aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller area.
    Applied is the leading supplier of systems for manufacturing
    copper-based chips, including equipment for depositing, etching
    and planarizing copper interconnect layers. Complementing the
    transition to copper to improve chip speed is the use of low
    dielectric constant (low k) films to replace silicon
    dioxide material as the insulator between the copper wiring
    structures. Applied also leads the industry in providing systems
    for depositing low k dielectric films.



    
    1



Table of Contents




    The transistor is another key area of the chip where
    semiconductor manufacturers are improving their device designs
    to enhance speed. Applied has the industry’s largest
    portfolio of technically advanced products for building smaller
    and faster transistors. One example is strain engineering, a
    technique that stretches or compresses the space between atoms,
    allowing electrical current to flow more quickly, thus greatly
    enhancing chip performance. Multiple strain films are typically
    used in advanced devices since they have an additive effect on
    increasing transistor speed. Applied has a comprehensive
    portfolio of systems to enable these applications using CVD and
    epitaxial deposition technologies.


 


    Most chips currently are fabricated using 65 nanometer (nm) and
    larger linewidth dimensions, although Applied is also working
    with customers on more advanced nodes. Major chipmakers have
    announced that they will be integrating new high dielectric
    constant (high-k) and metal materials and processes in their
    transistor gate structures to increase chip performance and
    reduce power consumption. Applied has a comprehensive portfolio
    of fully characterized processes for building these high-k/metal
    gates. These solutions include an integrated dielectric gate
    stack tool that combines four critical processes in a single
    system, a portfolio of metallization technologies using ALD and
    PVD, and an innovative high temperature etch system.


 


    Most of Applied’s semiconductor equipment products are
    single-wafer systems with multiple process chambers attached to
    a base platform. This enables each wafer to be processed
    separately in its own environment, allowing precise process
    control, while the system’s multiple chambers enable
    simultaneous, high productivity manufacturing. Applied sells
    most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems on four basic
    platforms: the
    Centura®,

    the
    Endura®,

    the
    Producer®

    and the
    Vantage®.

    These platforms support ALD, CVD, PVD, etch and RTP technologies.


 


    Over time, the semiconductor industry has migrated to
    increasingly larger wafers to build chips. The predominant or
    common wafer size used today for volume production of advanced
    chips is 300 millimeter (mm), or
    12-inch,
    wafers. Applied offers a comprehensive range of 300mm systems.
    Applied also offers earlier-generation 200mm systems, as well as
    products and services to support all of its systems, which are
    reported under its Applied Global Services segment.


 


    The following summarizes Applied’s portfolio of products
    and their associated process technology areas reported under its
    Silicon segment.


 



    Deposition


 


    Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During
    deposition, layers of dielectric (an insulator), barrier, or
    electrically conductive (typically metal) films are deposited or
    grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to
    perform three types of deposition: ALD, CVD and PVD. In
    addition, Applied’s RTP systems can be used to perform
    certain types of dielectric deposition.


 



    Atomic
    Layer Deposition


 


    ALD is an advanced technology in which atoms are deposited one
    layer at a time to build chip structures. This technology
    enables customers to fabricate thin films of either conducting
    or insulating material with uniform coverage in sub-nanometer
    sized structures. Applied offers ALD chambers for depositing
    tungsten and
    high-k/metal
    gate films. The Applied Centura
    iSprinttm

    Tungsten system (iSprint) combines an ALD chamber, which
    deposits a tungsten nucleation film, with a CVD tungsten bulk
    fill process in one system. The iSprint is used to form contact
    structures that connect the transistors to the wiring areas of
    the chip. Applied’s high-k/metal gate ALD process is part
    of the Centura Advanced Gate Stack system, which enables a
    single integrated solution for building high-k/metal gate
    structures.


 



    Chemical
    Vapor Deposition


 


    CVD is used by customers to deposit dielectric and metal films
    on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of
    the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming
    a thin film of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be
    silicon oxide, single-crystal epitaxial silicon, amorphous
    silicon, silicon nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings,
    low k dielectric (for highly efficient insulating materials),
    aluminum, titanium,



    
    2



Table of Contents




    titanium nitride, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or
    silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and
    technologies:


 


    The Applied Producer CVD platform — This
    high-throughput platform features
    Twin-Chamber®

    modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up
    to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer
    platform, giving it a simultaneous processing capacity of six
    wafers. Many dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this
    platform. The highest productivity model of this system is the
    Applied Producer GT, which has achieved rapid customer
    acceptance due to its fast wafer handling performance and
    compact design.


 


    Low k Dielectric Films — Low k dielectric
    materials are used in copper-based chip designs to further
    improve interconnect speed. Using conventional CVD equipment,
    the Applied Producer Black
    Diamond®

    family of low k systems provides customers with a proven,
    cost-effective way to integrate a variety of low k films into
    advanced interconnect structures. To further increase the
    performance of the complete multi-layer dielectric structure,
    Applied offers a line of
    BLOKtm

    (barrier low k) films deposited with the Producer system.


 


    Lithography-Enabling Solutions — Applied offers
    several technologies on the Producer system to help chipmakers
    extend their current 193nm lithography tools, including a line
    of Applied
    APFtm

    (advanced patterning film) films and Applied
    DARC®

    (dielectric anti-reflective coating) films. Together, they
    provide a film stack with the precise dimensional control and
    compatibility needed to cost-effectively pattern nano-scale
    features without additional integration complexity.


 


    Gap Fill Films — There are many steps during
    the chipmaking process in which very small and deep, or high
    aspect ratio (HAR), structures must be filled void-free with a
    dielectric film. Many of these applications include the
    deposition of silicon oxides in substrate isolation structures,
    contacts and interconnects. The Applied Centura Ultima
    HDP-CVD®

    (high-density plasma CVD) system has been an industry
    workhorse, providing multi-generational gap-fill capability for
    both logic and memory devices. The Company’s Applied
    Producer HARP (high aspect ratio process) provides customers
    with device scaling capability using sub-atmospheric CVD (SACVD)
    technology. In 2008, the Company introduced the Applied Producer
    eHARP, which extends gap-fill capability to 32nm and below by
    enabling the seamless, void-free fill of more tightly packed HAR
    structures.


 


    Strain Engineering Solutions — The Applied
    Producer HARP system also plays a key role in enhancing
    transistor performance, enabling chipmakers to boost chip speed
    by depositing strain inducing dielectric films. Offering the
    industry’s first integrated stress nitride deposition and
    ultraviolet (UV) cure solution, the Applied Producer Celera CVD
    delivers benchmark levels of high-stress tensile silicon nitride
    films. The Company also offers the Applied Centura SiNgenPlus
    low pressure CVD system for low temperature silicon nitride
    films. Used together, and in conjunction with silicon germanium
    (SiGe) films using Applied’s epitaxial deposition
    technologies, these systems can provide additive strain
    engineering benefits.


 


    Epitaxial Deposition — Epitaxial silicon
    (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform
    crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base
    for the device circuitry. Epi technology is used in an
    increasing number of integrated circuit devices in both the
    wafer substrate and transistor areas of a chip to enhance speed.
    The Applied Centura Epi system integrates pre- and post-epi
    processes on the same system to improve film quality and reduce
    production costs. This system is also used for SiGe epi
    technology, which reduces power usage and increases speed in
    certain types of advanced chips. For emerging transistor
    designs, the Applied Centura RP Epi system offers selective epi
    processes to enable faster transistor switching through strain
    engineering techniques.


 


    Polysilicon Deposition — Polysilicon is a type
    of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure
    within the integrated circuit device. The Applied Centura
    Polygentm

    LPCVD system is a single-wafer, multi-chamber product that
    deposits thin polysilicon films at high temperatures to create
    transistor gate structures. To address the challenging
    requirements of shrinking gate dimensions, the Applied Centura
    DPN Gate Stack system integrates chambers for decoupled plasma
    nitridation (DPN), RTP anneal and polysilicon deposition on one
    platform to enable superior film quality and material properties.



    
    3



Table of Contents




    Aluminum Deposition — Aluminum (Al) continues
    to be used by several memory manufacturers for interconnects.
    The Applied Endura iFill Al CVD/PVD system is used for building
    high-density interconnects in flash and DRAM memory chips. This
    advanced process, for sub-90nm generations, enables customers to
    replace tungsten structures with aluminum to achieve faster
    chips with fewer steps and less cost.


 


    Tungsten Deposition — Tungsten is used in the
    contact area of a chip that connects the transistors to the
    wiring circuitry. In aluminum-based devices, tungsten is also
    used in the structures that connect the multiple layers of
    aluminum wiring. Applied has two products for depositing
    tungsten: the Applied Centura
    Sprint®

    Tungsten CVD system for 90nm and below devices and the Applied
    Centura iSprint ALD/CVD system for more advanced applications.
    The latter product combines ALD technology and CVD chambers on
    the same platform.


 



    Physical
    Vapor Deposition


 


    PVD is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as
    argon, are accelerated toward a metal target. The metal atoms
    chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer.
    Applied leads the industry in PVD technology with its Applied
    Endura PVD system. This system offers a broad range of advanced
    deposition processes, including aluminum, aluminum alloys,
    cobalt, titanium/titanium nitride, tantalum/tantalum nitride,
    tungsten/tungsten nitride, nickel, vanadium and copper.


 


    The Applied Endura CuBS (copper barrier/seed) PVD system is
    widely used by customers for fabricating copper-based chips.
    Using PVD technology, the system deposits a tantalum-based
    barrier film that prevents copper material from entering other
    areas of the device and then a copper seed layer that primes the
    structure for the subsequent deposition of bulk copper. This
    system also features Activ Pre-clean technology to provide clean
    film interfaces while preserving the k-value integrity of the
    structure.


 



    Etch


 


    Etching is used many times throughout the integrated circuit
    manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the
    surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated
    with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist. A
    photolithography process then projects the circuit pattern onto
    the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by
    the photoresist pattern. Applied offers a wide range of systems
    for etching dielectric, metal and silicon films to meet the
    requirements of sub-100nm processing.


 


    For dielectric applications, the Applied Centura
    eMax®

    system etches a broad range of dielectric films in the contact
    and interconnect regions of the chip. Applied’s Producer
    Etch system utilizes the Company’s Twin-Chamber Producer
    platform to target cost-sensitive dielectric etch applications
    in 90nm and below design geometries. To address advanced low k
    etch applications, the Applied Centura
    Enabler®

    Etch system performs etch, strip and clean steps in a single
    chamber. The Enabler’s
    all-in-one
    capability streamlines the process flow for advanced chip
    designs and significantly reduces operating costs. The Applied
    Centura Carina system uses innovative, high-temperature
    technology to deliver the etch capability essential for scaling
    logic and memory devices with high-k/metal gates at 45nm and
    below.


 


    The Applied Centura
    AdvantEdgetm

    Silicon Etch system offers chipmakers high precision gate
    etching for advanced-generation devices. The Applied Centura
    Mariana Trench Etch system provides customers with the
    capability to scale memory devices by etching 80:1 aspect ratio
    structures. For etching metals, the Applied Opus AdvantEdge
    Metal Etch uses an optimized 5-chamber platform configuration
    that enables customers to extend aluminum interconnect
    technology and productivity to sub-70nm dimensions for flash and
    DRAM memory applications.


 



    Rapid
    Thermal Processing


 


    RTP is a process in which a wafer is subjected to rapid bursts
    of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to
    more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. A rapid
    thermal process is used mainly for modifying the properties of
    deposited films. The Applied Centura
    Radiance®Plus

    and Applied Vantage
    RadOxtm

    RTP systems feature advanced RTP technology with differing
    platform designs. While the multi-chamber Centura



    
    4



Table of Contents




    platform offers exceptional process flexibility, the streamlined
    two-chamber Vantage platform is designed for dedicated
    high-volume manufacturing. These single-wafer RTP systems are
    also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films,
    deposition steps that traditional large batch furnaces can no
    longer achieve with the necessary precision and control. With
    its proprietary radical-based oxidation process, the Applied
    Vantage RadOx system deposits high-performance transistor gate
    oxides with high productivity and low operating cost for flash
    memory applications.


 



    Chemical
    Mechanical Planarization


 


    The CMP process removes material from a wafer to create a flat
    (planarized) surface. This process allows subsequent
    photolithography patterning steps to occur with greater accuracy
    and enables film layers to build with minimal height variations.
    The 300mm Applied
    Reflexion®

    LK system leads the industry in CMP technology with important
    features such as integrated cleaning, film measurement and
    process control capabilities.


 



    Metrology
    and Wafer Inspection


 


    Applied offers several products for measuring features and
    inspecting defects on the wafer during various stages of the
    fabrication process. These systems enable customers to
    characterize and control critical dimension (CD) and defect
    issues, especially at advanced generation technology nodes.


 



    Critical
    Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes
    (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs)


 


    Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to
    form images of microscopic features of a patterned wafer at
    extremely high magnification. Applied’s SEM products
    provide customers with full automation, along with the high
    accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring very small CDs.
    The Applied
    VeritySEM®

    Metrology system uses proprietary SEM imaging technology to
    enable precise control of the lithography and etching processes.
    The VeritySEM measures CDs with less than 5 angstrom precision,
    a requirement for 45nm device production, and incorporates
    automation and software advancements for significantly higher
    throughput in production. Applied’s OPC
    Checktm

    software for the VeritySEM system performs automated
    qualification of OPC-based (optical proximity correction) chip
    designs, significantly reducing mask (see Mask Making section
    below) verification time over conventional manual methods.


 


    DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (such as particles,
    scratches or residues) that are first located by a defect
    detection system and then classify the defects to identify their
    source. The high-throughput, fully automatic Applied
    SEMVisiontm

    Defect Analysis products enable customers to use this technology
    as an integral part of their production lines to analyze defects
    as small as 30nm with industry-leading throughput. The Applied
    SEMVision FIB integrates advanced defect review SEM capability
    with automated focused ion beam (FIB) technology in one system.
    The FIB provides a cross-sectional view of the defects reviewed
    by the SEM, enabling chipmakers to analyze the defects in
    minutes as part of their in-line review process.


 



    Wafer
    Inspection


 


    Using laser-based technology, defects can be detected on
    patterned wafers (wafers with printed circuit images) as they
    move between processing steps. Defects include particles, open
    circuit lines, and shorts between lines. Incorporating key
    advances in imaging technology, the Applied
    ComPlustm

    Inspection system, for darkfield applications, detects defects
    in devices with design rules of 65nm and below with the high
    speed required for customers’ volume production lines. The
    Applied
    UVisiontm

    Inspection system is the industry’s first laser-based,
    three dimensional brightfield tool. Utilizing multi-beam, deep
    ultraviolet (DUV) laser illumination and high efficiency
    detectors, the UVision system uncovers previously undetectable
    defects on the wafer, enabling customers to rapidly resolve
    defect issues and achieve greater chip yields.


 



    Mask
    Making


 


    Masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer
    microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since an imperfection
    in a mask may be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be
    virtually defect-free. Applied provides systems for etching,
    cleaning and inspecting masks.



    
    5



Table of Contents




    The Applied Tetra III Advanced Reticle Etch system, an
    advanced etch tool for fabricating leading-edge masks, is used
    by virtually every advanced mask maker in the world for 45nm
    photomask development and production. In 2008, the Company
    introduced the Applied
    Tetratm

    Reticle Clean, the industry’s first wet clean system to
    provide damage-free, nearly 100 percent particle removal
    efficiency for 32nm and beyond photomasks. The groundbreaking
    Applied
    Aera2tm

    Mask Inspection system, also announced in 2008, allows customers
    to meet the most critical defect detection challenges of
    advanced masks. Using sophisticated aerial imaging technology,
    the Aera2 is the first mask inspection system that allows users
    to immediately see how the pattern on the mask will appear on
    the wafer, revealing only the defects most likely to print and
    significantly reducing inspection time.


 



    Applied
    Global Services Segment


 


    The Applied Global Services segment encompasses products and
    services designed to improve the performance and productivity,
    and reduce the environmental impact, of the fab operations of
    semiconductor, LCD and solar PV manufacturers. The in-depth
    expertise and best known methods of Applied’s extensive
    global support infrastructure enable Applied to continuously
    support customers’ production requirements. Approximately
    2,700 trained customer engineers and process support engineers
    are deployed in more than a dozen countries. These engineers are
    usually located at or near customers’ fab sites and service
    over 22,000 installed Applied systems, as well as non-Applied
    systems. Applied offers the following general types of services
    and products:


 


    Fab Services — Applied offers a portfolio of
    fab-wide operations services to maintain and optimize
    customers’ fabrication facilities. Applied Genuine Parts
    are spare parts manufactured to Applied’s strict technical
    specifications and quality standards. Applied Services provides
    customers with optimized tool performance for improved total
    cost of ownership and a higher return on investment. Through its
    Metron Chamber Performance Services unit, Applied is the
    industry’s leading provider of critical parts cleaning,
    coating refurbishment and analytical testing capabilities.
    Applied’s Advanced Wafer Reclaim Center in Taiwan uses
    state-of-the-art manufacturing systems and software to extend
    the lifecycle of 300mm silicon test wafers by over 45% and to
    reduce customers’ costs.


 


    In 2008, the Company introduced its
    SunFabtm

    Performance Service program, a comprehensive, integrated support
    solution for Applied’s
    SunFabtm

    Thin Film Line for producing large-size solar PV panels,
    discussed further under the Energy and Environmental Solutions
    segment. The first service product of its kind for the solar
    industry, the program enables customers to quickly ramp to
    volume production while optimizing the performance, cost and
    output of their SunFab lines.


 


    Mature Technology Services — Applied offers a
    wide range of products and services to extend the productive
    life of 200mm semiconductor fabs, including new and
    remanufactured 200mm equipment, system enhancements and fab
    transition services. Designed to maximize productivity and lower
    cost of ownership, these products also assist customers in
    implementing green manufacturing solutions. Applied’s 200mm
    systems are available in a broad range of production-proven
    technologies, including CVD, PVD, etch, implant, RTP, CMP,
    epitaxy, metrology and inspection tools.


 


    Automation Systems — Applied offers automated
    factory-level and tool-level control software systems for
    semiconductor, LCD and solar cell manufacturing facilities.
    These enterprise solutions include manufacturing execution
    systems (MES) to automate the production of wafers and LCD and
    solar substrates, advanced process control systems, and
    scheduling and materials handling control systems. Applied also
    offers computerized maintenance management systems, performance
    tracking, and modeling and simulation tools for improving asset
    utilization. In 2008, Applied introduced its breakthrough E3
    equipment engineering system solution that uniquely integrates
    all critical equipment automation and process control components.


 


    Abatement Systems — Applied’s family of
    Metron abatement systems is a comprehensive line of
    environmental solutions for the semiconductor, solar and display
    industries. These systems include a wide range of point-of-use
    scrubbing tools including wet, dry, thermal and integrated
    technologies for reliable, cost-effective abatement of exhaust
    gases. In 2008, the Company introduced the Marathon S for its
    SunFab Thin Film line, the only integrated solution for PECVD
    reactive byproducts.



    
    6



Table of Contents





    Display
    Segment


 


    Applied’s AKT subsidiary, reported under the Display
    segment, designs, manufactures and sells equipment to fabricate
    thin film transistor LCDs for televisions, computer displays and
    other consumer-oriented electronic applications. While
    similarities exist between the technologies utilized in
    chipmaking and LCD fabrication, the most significant differences
    are in the size and composition of the substrate. Substrates
    used to manufacture LCD panels can be more than 70 times larger
    in area than 300mm wafers and are made of glass, while wafers
    are made of silicon. This technology for deposition on
    large-size substrates is also used in the Applied
    SunFabtm

    Thin Film Line.


 


    Applied supplies a wide range of systems that process and test
    different glass substrate sizes. For fabricating the transistor
    layer of these panels, the Company offers a line of
    plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) systems that use multi-chamber
    platform architecture to deposit dielectric and semiconducting
    films. The
    AKT-PiVottm

    55KV system employs high-productivity, cost-efficient PVD
    technology to deposit metal and transparent conductive oxide
    films on the substrate. For manufacturing the color filter of
    LCD panels, Applied offers the AKT-NEW
    ARISTOtm

    2200 for transparent conductive oxide film deposition.


 


    Complementing these systems, Applied also offers a line of
    electron beam test (EBT) systems for testing substrates during
    production for defective pixels and other imperfections.
    Featuring one of the industry’s fastest and most accurate
    pixel test technologies with the lowest operating cost, the EBT
    systems’ non-contact test technology enables the safe
    testing of high-value LCD TV panels without damaging or
    scratching the display.


 


    To meet growing consumer demand for larger, more cost-efficient
    LCD TVs, LCD manufacturers have moved to increasingly
    large-sized substrates. Applied’s latest generation (Gen)
    10 systems can process substrates sized at approximately 2.85 x
    3.05 meters, with each substrate enabling the production of up
    to six
    65-inch LCD
    TV screens. These Gen-10 systems include the AKT-90K PECVD and
    the Gen-10 AKT-90K EBT products, announced in fiscal 2008.


 



    Energy
    and Environmental Solutions Segment


 


    The Energy and Environmental Solutions segment includes
    manufacturing solutions for the generation and conservation of
    energy. Applied entered the solar PV market in 2006, announcing
    its objective to lower the overall cost per watt of solar
    electricity to parity with that of electricity generated by
    other sources such as the burning of fossil fuels. Applied
    offers manufacturing solutions for both wafer-based crystalline
    silicon (c-Si) and glass-based thin film applications to enable
    customers to increase the conversion efficiency and yields of
    solar PV devices.


 


    In fiscal 2008, Applied expanded its capabilities and
    opportunities in the c-Si technology sector through its
    acquisition of Baccini S.p.A. (Baccini), a leading supplier of
    automated metallization and test systems for c-Si solar PV
    cells. These products, combined with Applied’s suite of
    silicon wafering and deposition systems, have made Applied the
    leading supplier of c-Si manufacturing systems worldwide. A key
    benefit of these systems is that they offer customers a way to
    reduce silicon consumption and cost by using ultra-thin
    substrate wafers.


 


    For thin film applications, Applied developed the Applied
    SunFabtm

    Thin Film Line, which is the world’s only integrated
    production line for manufacturing thin film silicon solar
    modules using 5.7 square meter
    (m2)

    glass substrates. These ultra-large panels, which are
    approximately four times the size of thin film solar panels
    offered by others in the industry, are intended for large-scale
    applications such as solar farms, utilities and
    building-integrated solar PV system installations. Applied has
    entered into multiple contracts for its SunFab line with
    customers in Europe, Asia and Saudi Arabia. In October 2008, the
    first of these lines passed final acceptance testing, enabling
    the customer to begin volume manufacturing of SunFab modules.


 


    Products in this segment also include the
    ATONtm

    in-line deposition system, a large-area platform for
    high-quality deposition and high-throughput in both c-Si and
    thin film solar PV cell manufacturing, as well as processes,
    materials-handling technologies and fabrication services. Other
    products include roll-to-roll, vacuum web coating systems for
    high-performance deposition of a range of films on flexible
    substrates for functional, aesthetic or optical properties.
    Applied also offers large-area deposition equipment for the
    production of low-emissivity (low-E) and solar control
    architectural glass.



    
    7



Table of Contents





    Backlog


 


    Applied manufactures systems to meet demand represented by order
    backlog and customer commitments. Backlog consists of:
    (1) orders for which written authorizations have been
    accepted and assigned shipment dates are within the next
    12 months, or shipment has occurred but revenue has not
    been recognized; (2) contractual service revenue and
    maintenance fees to be earned within the next 12 months;
    and (3) orders for SunFab lines that are anticipated to be
    recognized as revenue within the next 12 months.


 


    Applied’s backlog increased from $3.7 billion at
    October 28, 2007 to $4.8 billion at October 26,
    2008. Applied’s backlog on any particular date is not
    necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding
    period. Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel
    orders prior to shipment, subject to possible cancellation
    penalties. Backlog adjustments were positive for fiscal 2008 and
    totaled $140 million, consisting primarily of backlog
    obtained from acquired companies, partially offset by
    cancellations and currency adjustments. Delays in delivery
    schedules
    and/or a
    reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a
    material adverse effect on Applied’s business and results
    of operations.


 



    Manufacturing,
    Raw Materials and Supplies


 


    Applied’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of
    procurement, assembly, test and integration of various
    proprietary and commercial parts, components and subassemblies
    (collectively, parts) that are used to manufacture systems.
    Products in the Silicon segment are manufactured in Austin,
    Texas and Rehovot, Israel. Remanufactured products in the
    Applied Global Services segment are produced primarily in
    Austin, Texas. Products in the Display segment are manufactured
    in Santa Clara, California; Alzenau, Germany; and Tainan,
    Taiwan. Products in the Energy and Environmental Solutions
    segment are manufactured primarily in Alzenau, Germany;
    Cheseaux, Switzerland; Treviso, Italy; and Santa Clara,
    California. Manufacturing requires raw materials, including a
    wide variety of mechanical and electrical components, to be
    manufactured to Applied’s specifications. Applied uses
    numerous companies, including contract manufacturers, to supply
    parts for the manufacture and support of its products. Although
    Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts are
    available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always
    possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be obtained from only
    a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied seeks
    to reduce costs and to lower the risks of production and service
    interruptions, as well as shortages of key parts, by:
    (1) selecting and qualifying alternate suppliers for key
    parts; (2) monitoring the financial condition of key
    suppliers; (3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key
    parts; (4) qualifying new parts on a timely basis; and
    (5) locating certain manufacturing operations in areas that
    are closer to suppliers and customers.


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering


 


    Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued
    development of new products. Applied’s significant
    investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E)
    has generally enabled it to deliver new products and
    technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus
    allowing customers to incorporate these products into their
    manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology
    selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers
    to design systems and processes that meet their planned
    technical and production requirements. Product development and
    engineering organizations are located primarily in the United
    States, as well as in Europe, Israel and China. In addition,
    Applied outsources certain RD&E activities, some of which
    are performed outside the United States. Process support and
    customer demonstration laboratories are located in the United
    States, China, Europe and Israel.


 


    Applied’s investments in RD&E for product development
    and engineering programs to create or improve products and
    technologies over the last three years were as follows:
    $1.1 billion (14 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2008,
    $1.1 billion (12 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2007
    and $1.2 billion (13 percent of net sales) in fiscal
    2006. Applied has spent an average of 13 percent of net
    sales in RD&E over the last five years. In addition to
    RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains
    ongoing programs for automation control systems, materials
    research and environmental control that have applications to its
    products. In fiscal 2008, Applied focused on developing systems
    for semiconductor customers’ new chip designs with 45nm and
    below geometries, including systems to enable faster transistors
    using strain engineering and high-k/metal gate technologies, as
    well as double



    
    8



Table of Contents




    patterning processes that enable customers to extend their
    existing 193nm lithography tools through additional technology
    generations. Applied also focused on developing technology for
    through-silicon vias, an emerging solution for interconnecting
    three dimensional chip stacks to provide better device
    performance, lower power consumption and the integration of
    heterogeneous devices. RD&E also included activities to
    develop products that enable lower-cost production of solar
    energy.


 



    Marketing
    and Sales


 


    Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied
    markets and sells products worldwide through a direct sales
    force. Approximately 81 percent of Applied’s fiscal
    2008 net sales were to regions outside of the
    United States. Net sales to customers by region as a
    percentage of total net sales were: Taiwan 22 percent,
    North America (primarily the United States)
    19 percent, Asia-Pacific (including China) 16 percent,
    Korea 16 percent, Japan 15 percent, and Europe
    12 percent.


 


    General economic conditions impact Applied’s business and
    financial results. From time to time, the markets in which
    products are sold experience weak economic conditions that may
    negatively impact sales. Applied’s business is usually not
    seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical, based on capital
    equipment investment by major semiconductor, flat panel display,
    solar PV and other manufacturers. These expenditures depend on
    many factors, including: anticipated market demand and pricing
    for semiconductors, LCDs, solar cells and modules, architectural
    glass and other substrates; the development of new technologies;
    customers’ factory utilization; capital resources and
    financing; and global and regional economic conditions.


 


    Applied manages its business and reports financial results based
    on the segments described above, but does not allocate certain
    sales and marketing costs to the segments.


 


    Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and
    long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic
    regions is included in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. accounted
    for 16 percent of Applied’s net sales in fiscal 2008,
    12 percent of Applied’s net sales in fiscal 2007, and
    11 percent of Applied’s net sales in fiscal 2006.
    These net sales were for products in multiple reportable
    segments.


 



    Competition


 


    The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive
    and characterized by rapid technological change. Applied’s
    ability to compete generally depends on its ability to timely
    commercialize its technology, continually improve its products
    and develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer
    requirements. Significant competitive factors include technical
    capability and differentiation, productivity and
    cost-effectiveness. The importance of these factors varies
    according to customers’ needs, including product mix and
    respective product requirements, applications, and the timing
    and circumstances of purchasing decisions. Substantial
    competition exists in all areas of Applied’s business.
    Competitors range from small companies that compete with a
    single product
    and/or in a
    single region, to global, diversified companies with a range of
    products. Applied’s ability to compete requires a high
    level of investment in RD&E and in marketing, sales and
    global customer support activities. Management believes that
    many of Applied’s products have strong competitive
    positions.


 


    The competitive environment for each segment is described below:


 


    The semiconductor industry has been increasingly driven by
    consumer demand for lower-cost electronic products with
    increased capability and, to a lesser extent, by demand for
    commercial applications. As a result, products within the
    Silicon segment are subject to rapid changes in customer
    requirements, including transitions to smaller dimensions, new
    materials and an increasing number of applications. While
    certain existing technologies may be adapted to new
    requirements, some applications create the need for an entirely
    different technical approach. The rapid pace of technological
    change can quickly diminish the value of current technologies
    and products and create opportunities for existing and new
    competitors. Applied offers a broad portfolio of technically
    differentiated products that must continuously evolve to satisfy
    customers’ requirements in order to compete effectively.
    Applied allocates resources among its many product offerings and
    therefore may decide not to invest in an individual product to
    the same degree as competitors who specialize in fewer products.
    There are many competitors serving the semiconductor
    manufacturing equipment industry, with some offering a single
    product line and others offering



    
    9



Table of Contents




    multiple product lines. These competitors range from suppliers
    serving a single region to global, diversified companies.


 


    Products and services within the Applied Global Services segment
    are characterized by demanding worldwide service requirements
    and a diverse group of numerous competitors. To compete
    effectively, Applied offers products and services to reduce
    costs, improve productivity, and lessen the environmental impact
    of customers’ fab operations. Significant competitive
    factors include productivity, cost-effectiveness, and the level
    of technical service and support. The importance of these
    factors varies according to customers’ needs and the type
    of products or services offered.


 


    Products in the Display segment are subject to strong
    competition from a number of major competitors. Applied holds
    established market positions with its technically differentiated
    LCD manufacturing solutions for PECVD, color filter PVD and
    array testing, although its market position can change rapidly
    if it does not meet customers’ requirements. In fiscal
    2007, Applied entered the array PVD market with the
    AKT-PiVottm

    55KV PVD system. As a recent entrant to this market, Applied
    faces significant competition from existing array PVD suppliers.


 


    Applied’s products within the Energy and Environmental
    Solutions segment compete in diverse market areas, including
    equipment to make solar PV cells and modules, flexible
    electronics and energy-efficient glass. In solar, Applied offers
    products for two distinct technologies, c-Si wafer-based and
    thin film glass-based applications. As a recent entrant to the
    solar equipment business, Applied competes with many other
    companies that have more experience with solar applications.
    Applied also is a recent entrant to the flexible electronics
    equipment business, which operates in an emerging market sector
    characterized by diverse types of applications, customer
    requirements and competitors. Applied’s glass coating
    equipment faces significant competition from at least one
    established supplier and another recent market entrant.


 



    Patents
    and Licenses


 


    Management believes that Applied’s competitive position
    significantly depends upon the Company’s research,
    development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing
    capabilities, and not just on its patent position. However,
    protection of Applied’s technological assets by obtaining
    and enforcing intellectual property rights, including patents,
    is important. Therefore, Applied’s practice is to file
    patent applications in the United States and other countries for
    inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has a
    substantial number of patents in the United States and other
    countries, and additional applications are pending for new
    inventions. Although Applied does not consider its business
    materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied
    and the products made and sold under its patents, taken as a
    whole, are a significant element of Applied’s business. In
    addition to patents, Applied also possesses other intellectual
    property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets and
    copyrights.


 


    Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements
    with other companies when management determines that it is in
    its best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under
    existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of
    its products, of certain patented technologies that are licensed
    to Applied for the life of the patents. Applied also receives
    royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties
    received from or paid to third parties have not been, and are
    not expected to be, material to Applied’s consolidated
    results of operations.


 


    In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives
    and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In
    dealing with such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful
    for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights.
    However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights
    will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms,
    or at all. If Applied is not able to resolve or settle claims,
    obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms,
    and/or
    successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    Two of Applied’s locations have been designated as
    environmental cleanup sites. In 1987, the United States
    Environmental Protection Agency designated one of the locations,
    in Santa Clara, California, as a Superfund site and named
    Applied as a “Responsible Party.” Cleanup activities
    at this site began in 1984 and were substantially



    
    10



Table of Contents




    completed in February 2002. The California Regional Water
    Quality Control Board designated Applied as a
    “Discharger” with respect to another site in
    Sunnyvale, California. Applied was named a Discharger upon its
    acquisition of the property in 1997 solely due to its status as
    property owner. The prior owners of the site
    and/or
    operators who caused the contamination are responsible for
    performing cleanup and monitoring activities.


 


    Applied maintains a number of environmental, health and safety
    programs that are primarily preventive in nature. As part of
    these programs, Applied regularly monitors ongoing compliance
    and periodically conducts investigations of possible
    contamination.


 


    Compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating
    the discharge of materials into the environment, remedial
    agreements and other actions relating to the environment have
    not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on
    Applied’s capital expenditures, competitive position,
    financial condition or results of operations.


 


    The most recent report on Applied’s environmental, health
    and safety activities can be found on the Company’s website
    at
    http://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/environment.html.
    This report is updated periodically. This website address is
    intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the
    information on Applied’s website is part of this
    Form 10-K
    or is incorporated by reference herein.


 



    Employees


 


    At October 26, 2008, Applied employed 14,824 regular
    employees and 586 temporary employees. In the high-technology
    industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense.
    Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent
    upon its continued ability to attract, retain and motivate
    qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will
    be able to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient
    number of qualified employees.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    The following table and notes set forth information about
    Applied’s executive officers as of October 26, 2008:


 




     	
     	
     	





    Name of Individual



 



    Position




 





    James C. Morgan(1)



 


    Chairman of the Board of Directors





    Michael R. Splinter(2)



 


    President and Chief Executive Officer





    Franz Janker(3)



 


    Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing





    Gilad Almogy(4)



 


    Senior Vice President, General Manager Display and Thin Film
    Solar Products





    George S. Davis(5)



 


    Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer





    Manfred Kerschbaum(6)



 


    Senior Vice President, General Manager Applied Global Services





    Mark R. Pinto(7)



 


    Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and General
    Manager Energy and  Environmental Solutions





    Thomas St. Dennis(8)



 


    Senior Vice President, General Manager Silicon Systems Group





    Joseph J. Sweeney(9)



 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary





    Randhir Thakur(10)



 


    Senior Vice President, General Manager of Strategic Operations





    Chris Bowers(11)



 


    Group Vice President, Chief of Staff and General Manager
    Corporate Services





    Menachem Erad(12)



 


    Group Vice President, Chairman of Sokudo





    Ron Kifer(13)



 


    Group Vice President, Chief Information Officer





    Jeannette L. Liebman(14)



 


    Group Vice President, Global Human Resources





    Yvonne Weatherford(15)



 


    Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Mr. Morgan, age 70, has been Chairman of the Board of
    Directors of Applied Materials, Inc. since 1987. Mr. Morgan
    served as Applied’s Chief Executive Officer from February
    1977 to April 2003, and as Applied’s President from 1976 to
    1987.



 


    
    (2) 
    
    
    Mr. Splinter, age 58, has been President, Chief
    Executive Officer and a member of Applied’s Board of
    Directors since joining Applied in April 2003. Prior to joining
    Applied, Mr. Splinter worked for nearly 





    
    11



Table of Contents






    
    
    



    

    
    
    20 years at Intel Corporation (Intel), most recently as
    Executive Vice President and Director of the Sales and Marketing
    Group, responsible for sales and operations worldwide.
    Mr. Splinter previously held various executive positions at
    Intel, including Executive Vice President and General Manager of
    the Technology and Manufacturing Group.



 


    
    (3) 
    
    
    Mr. Janker, age 59, has been the head of Sales and
    Marketing of Applied since May 2003. Beginning in May 2003,
    he was Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing, and in
    December 2004 he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Sales
    and Marketing. He served as Senior Vice President, Global
    Operations and Corporate Marketing beginning in December of
    2002. From December 1998 to 2002, he served as Group
    Vice President, Corporate Marketing and Business
    Management. From 1982 to 1998, Mr. Janker served in a
    variety of sales and marketing management positions with Applied
    in the United States and Europe.



 


    
    (4) 
    
    
    Dr. Almogy, age 43, was appointed Senior Vice
    President, General Manager, Display and Thin Film Solar Products
    in July 2008. From August 2007 to July 2008, Dr. Almogy
    served as Group Vice President, General Manager, Display
    Products and Process Diagnostics and Control Business Group.
    From July 2005 to August 2007, Dr. Almogy served as
    Group Vice President, General Manager, Process Diagnostics and
    Control Product Business Group and was Corporate Vice President,
    General Manager of the group from April 2002 to July 2005,
    and Vice President and Co-General Manager of the group from
    December 2000 to April 2002. He has held various other positions
    since joining Applied in 1997 when Applied acquired Orbot
    Instruments, Ltd. Dr. Almogy holds a Ph.D. in Applied
    Physics from the California Institute of Technology.



 


    
    (5) 
    
    
    Mr. Davis, age 51, was promoted to Senior Vice
    President, Chief Financial Officer in December 2006.
    Mr. Davis was appointed Group Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer effective November 1, 2006. Previously,
    he had been Group Vice President, General Manager, Corporate
    Business Development since February 2005. From November 1999 to
    February 2005, Mr. Davis served as Vice President and
    Corporate Treasurer, where he managed Applied’s worldwide
    treasury operations and was responsible for investments, tax,
    financial risk management, and trade and export matters.
    Mr. Davis joined Applied in 1999.



 


    
    (6) 
    
    
    Mr. Kerschbaum, age 54, has been Senior Vice
    President, General Manager, Applied Global Services since
    January 2005. He was Senior Vice President, Global Operations
    from July 2004 to January 2005 and from October 2002 to May
    2003. From May 2003 to July 2004, he was Group Vice President,
    Foundation Engineering and Operations. From January 1996 to
    October 2002, he held various positions in Applied Materials
    North America, most recently as Group Vice President, General
    Manager, Applied Materials North America.
    Mr. Kerschbaum has served in various other operations,
    customer service and engineering positions since joining Applied
    in 1983.



 


    
    (7) 
    
    
    Dr. Pinto, age 49, has served as Senior Vice President
    since joining Applied in January 2004. His current
    responsibility is Chief Technology Officer and General Manager,
    Energy and Environmental Solutions. Prior to joining Applied,
    Dr. Pinto spent 19 years with Bell Laboratories and
    the Lucent Microelectronics Group, which later became Agere
    Systems Inc., most recently as Vice President of the Analog
    Products Division. Dr. Pinto holds a Ph.D. in Electrical
    Engineering from Stanford University.



 


    
    (8) 
    
    
    Mr. St. Dennis, age 55, was appointed Senior Vice
    President, General Manager, Silicon Systems Group in
    June 2007. Mr. St. Dennis returned to Applied in
    September 2005 as Senior Vice President, General Manager, Etch,
    Cleans, Front End and Implant Product Business Groups. He
    previously was with Applied from 1992 to 1999, most recently as
    Group Vice President, Planarization and Dielectric Deposition
    Product Business Group, and before that as Corporate Vice
    President, Physical Vapor Deposition Product Business Group.
    From 2003 to 2005, Mr. St. Dennis was an Executive Vice
    President and member of the Office of the CEO of Novellus
    Systems, Inc. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer
    of Wind River Systems, Inc. from 1999 to 2003.



 


    
    (9) 
    
    
    Mr. Sweeney, age 60, has held the position of Senior
    Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of
    Applied since July 2005, with responsibility for global legal
    affairs, intellectual property and security. From April 2002 to
    July 2005, Mr. Sweeney was Group Vice President, Legal
    Affairs and Intellectual Property, and Corporate Secretary.
    Mr. Sweeney joined Applied in 1993.



 


    
    (10) 
    
    
    Dr. Thakur, age 46, was appointed Senior Vice
    President, General Manager, Strategic Operations when he
    returned to Applied in May 2008. He previously was with Applied
    from 2000 to 2005 in a variety of executive roles including
    Group Vice President, General Manager for Front End Products.
    From September 2005 to 





    
    12



Table of Contents






    
    
    



    

    
    
    May 2008, Dr. Thakur served as Executive Vice
    President of Technology and Fab Operations at SanDisk
    Corporation and as head of SanDisk’s worldwide operations.
    Prior to joining Applied in 2000, Dr. Thakur served in
    leadership roles at Steag Electronic Systems and Micron
    Technology.



 


    
    (11) 
    
    
    Mr. Bowers, age 48, was appointed Group Vice
    President, Chief of Staff and General Manager, Corporate
    Services in March 2008. Prior to joining Applied,
    Mr. Bowers was a partner at the Hay Group, where he held
    various business leadership and consulting positions from 1992
    to 2008. Most recently, he was Director of Client Services in
    Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and a member of the Hay
    Group Global R&D Council.



 


    
    (12) 
    
    
    Mr. Erad, age 60, was appointed in March 2008 as Group
    Vice President, Chairman of Sokudo Co. Ltd., a Japanese joint
    venture company owned by Applied and Dainippon Screen
    Manufacturing Co. Ltd. From February 2005 to March 2008,
    Mr. Erad served as Group Vice President, Chief of Staff.
    From January 2004 to February 2005, Mr. Erad served as
    Group Vice President, Strategic Planning and New Technology. He
    served as Group Vice President, New Business and New Products
    Group from May 2003 to January 2004. Mr. Erad joined
    Applied in 2002 as Group Vice President, Strategic Planning and
    New Business Development.



 


    
    (13) 
    
    
    Mr. Kifer, age 57, joined Applied in May 2006 as Group
    Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Global Information
    Services. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Kifer spent five
    years with DHL in various executive management roles, most
    recently as the Senior Vice President and Chief Information
    Officer for North America, Asia Pacific and Emerging
    Markets.



 


    
    (14) 
    
    
    Ms. Liebman, age 61, has served as Group Vice
    President, Global Human Resources since July 2005.
    Ms. Liebman served as Corporate Vice President, Global
    Human Resources from August 2003 to July 2005. Prior to joining
    Applied in 2003, Ms. Liebman held various human resources
    positions at Intel.



 


    
    (15) 
    
    
    Ms. Weatherford, age 57, has served as Corporate Vice
    President, Corporate Controller since December 2004.
    Ms. Weatherford was Appointed Vice President, Business
    Operations Controller from December 2001 to December 2004, and
    Appointed Vice President, Financial Operations Controller from
    October 2000 to December 2001. She has held various other
    finance roles since joining Applied in 1990.




 



    Available
    Information


 


    Applied’s website is
    http://www.appliedmaterials.com.
    Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its
    website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any
    amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable
    after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing
    them to, the SEC. This website address is intended to be an
    inactive textual reference only. None of the information on
    Applied’s website is part of this
    Form 10-K
    or is incorporated by reference herein.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The following factors could materially affect Applied’s
    business, financial condition or results of operations and
    should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its
    business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere
    in this report.


 



    The
    industries that Applied serves are volatile and
    unpredictable.


 


    As a supplier to the global semiconductor, flat panel display,
    solar and related industries, Applied is subject to business
    cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be
    difficult to predict and which vary by reportable segment. These
    industries historically have been cyclical due to sudden changes
    in customers’ manufacturing capacity requirements and
    spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization, demand
    for customers’ products, inventory levels relative to
    demand, and access to affordable capital. These changes have
    affected the timing and amounts of customers’ purchases and
    investments in technology, and continue to affect Applied’s
    orders, net sales, operating expenses and net income.


 


    To meet rapidly changing demand in each of the industries it
    serves, Applied must effectively manage its resources and
    production capacity for each of its segments and across multiple
    segments. During periods of decreasing demand for Applied’s
    products, Applied must be able to appropriately align its cost
    structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage
    its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees. During
    periods of increasing demand, Applied must have sufficient
    manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer



    
    13



Table of Contents




    demand; effectively manage its supply chain; and attract, retain
    and motivate a sufficient number of qualified individuals. If
    Applied is not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes
    in its business environment, Applied’s business, financial
    condition or results of operations may be materially and
    adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with the ongoing financial crisis
    and weakening global economy.


 


    The recent severe tightening of the credit markets, turmoil in
    the financial markets, and weakening global economy are
    contributing to slowdowns in the industries in which Applied
    operates, which slowdowns are expected to worsen if these
    economic conditions are prolonged or deteriorate further. The
    markets for semiconductors and flat panel displays in particular
    depend largely on consumer spending. Economic uncertainty
    exacerbates negative trends in consumer spending and may cause
    certain Applied customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from
    placing equipment or service orders, which may affect
    Applied’s ability to convert backlog to sales and reduce
    net sales. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating
    market conditions may also lead to the inability of some
    customers to obtain affordable financing, resulting in lower
    sales for Applied. Customers with liquidity issues may lead to
    additional bad debt expense for Applied. These conditions may
    also similarly affect key suppliers, which could affect their
    ability to deliver parts and result in delays for Applied’s
    products. Further, these conditions and uncertainty about future
    economic conditions make it challenging for Applied to forecast
    its operating results, make business decisions, and identify the
    risks that may affect its business, financial condition and
    results of operations. In addition, Applied maintains an
    investment portfolio that is subject to general credit,
    liquidity, market and interest rate risks that may be
    exacerbated by deteriorating financial market conditions and, as
    a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio
    could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment. If Applied
    is not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes
    resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment,
    Applied’s business, financial condition or results of
    operations may be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the
    various industries in which it operates.


 


    The global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related
    industries in which Applied operates are characterized by
    ongoing changes affecting some or all of these industries,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increasing capital requirements for building and operating new
    fabrication plants and the resulting effect on customers’
    ability to raise the necessary capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    the varying growth rates of the semiconductor, display and solar
    equipment industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing cost and complexity for customers to move from
    product design to volume manufacturing and the resulting impact
    on new technology adoption rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    the importance of reducing the total cost of system ownership,
    due in part to the increasing significance of lower-cost
    consumer electronics as a driver for semiconductor and LCD
    demand;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuating levels of business information technology spending;




 



     
        • 

    
    the heightened importance to customers of system reliability and
    productivity and the effect on demand for systems as a result of
    their increasing productivity, device yield and reliability;




 



     
        • 

    
    demand for shorter cycle times for the development, manufacture
    and installation of manufacturing equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    price and performance trends for semiconductor devices, LCDs and
    solar PVs, and the corresponding effect on demand for such
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing importance of spare parts availability to
    maximize system uptime;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing role for and complexity of software; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing focus on energy usage, the environment and
    sustainability.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    the ongoing changes occurring in the semiconductor, flat panel
    display, solar and related industries, its business, financial
    condition and results of operations could be materially and
    adversely affected.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to
    the semiconductor industry.


 


    The largest portion of Applied’s revenues historically has
    come from sales of manufacturing equipment to the global
    semiconductor industry, and this business historically has also
    been the most profitable. Changes in the semiconductor industry
    may lead to a decrease in the percentage of Applied’s
    revenue attributable to its semiconductor equipment business as
    a percentage of overall revenue, which in turn can negatively
    impact the Company’s net income. In addition to the general
    industry changes described in the preceding risk factor, the
    semiconductor industry is characterized by ongoing changes
    particular to that industry, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the increasing cost of semiconductor R&D due to many
    factors, including decreasing linewidths, the increasing number
    of materials, device structures, applications and process steps,
    and the increasing cost, complexity and integration of
    manufacturing process development and chip design;




 



     
        • 

    
    the growing types and varieties of semiconductors and expanding
    number of applications across multiple substrate sizes,
    resulting in divergent technical demands;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing rates of market growth for, and capital investments
    by, various semiconductor device makers, such as memory
    (including NAND flash and DRAM), logic and foundry;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing cost and complexity for semiconductor
    manufacturers to move volume manufacturing from one technology
    node to the next smaller technology node, and the resulting
    impact on the technology transition rate and the rate of
    investment in capital equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effect of the decreasing number of new chip designs on the
    rate of capital equipment investment;




 



     
        • 

    
    technology changes in related markets, such as lithography;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing fragmentation of certain markets for
    semiconductors and the resulting effect on the number of
    individual markets that have the ability to financially justify
    the cost of a new fabrication plant;




 



     
        • 

    
    the cost, technical complexity and timing of a proposed
    transition from 300 mm to 450 mm wafers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increasing costs, complexity and competitiveness in the
    semiconductor industry that has resulted in the decreasing
    profitability of many manufacturers, causing them to enter into
    collaboration, cooperation or cost-sharing arrangements with
    other manufacturers, to outsource some or all manufacturing
    activities, or to focus on particular markets or applications.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    the ongoing changes occurring in the semiconductor industry, its
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to
    the flat panel display industry.


 


    The global flat panel display industry historically has
    experienced considerable volatility in capital equipment
    investment levels, due in part to the limited number of LCD
    manufacturers and the concentrated nature of LCD end-use
    applications. Recently, industry growth has depended to a
    considerable extent on consumer demand for increasingly larger
    and more advanced TVs. In addition to the general industry
    changes described above in the third risk factor, the display
    industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to that
    industry. These include technical and financial difficulties
    associated with transitioning to larger substrate sizes for
    LCDs, as well as the effect of a slowing rate of transition to
    larger substrate sizes on capital intensity and product
    differentiation. If Applied does not successfully manage the
    risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the
    display industry, its business, financial condition and results
    of operations could be materially and adversely affected.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to
    the solar industry.


 


    An increasing portion of Applied’s business is in the
    emerging solar market, which Applied entered in 2006 and which,
    in addition to the general industry changes described above in
    the third risk factor, is characterized by ongoing changes
    particular to the solar industry, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in demand for solar PV products arising from, among
    other things, the cost and performance of solar PV technology
    compared to other energy sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    the adequacy of or changes in government energy policies,
    including the availability and amount of government incentives
    for solar power;




 



     
        • 

    
    the extent of investment or participation in solar by utilities
    or other companies that generate, transmit or distribute power
    to end users;




 



     
        • 

    
    evolving industry standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties associated with establishing a standard form factor
    for thin film solar modules;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory requirements and customers’ ability to timely
    satisfy these requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    a requirement of certification by third parties in certain
    circumstances;




 



     
        • 

    
    customers’ and end-users’ access to affordable
    financial capital; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the move to increasingly greater factory output of solar PVs,
    including output on a level sufficient to annually generate
    electricity on a gigawatt scale.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    the ongoing changes occurring in the solar industry, its
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    must adapt its business and product offerings to respond to
    competition and rapid technological changes.


 


    As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment, its
    future success depends on many factors, including the effective
    commercialization and customer acceptance of its
    nanomanufacturing technology equipment, service and related
    products. In addition, Applied must successfully execute its
    growth strategy, including enhancing market share in existing
    markets, expanding into related markets, cultivating new markets
    and exceeding industry growth rates, while constantly improving
    its operational performance. The development, introduction and
    support of a broadening set of products in more varied
    competitive environments have grown increasingly complex and
    expensive over time. Furthermore, new or improved products may
    involve higher costs and reduced profits. Applied’s success
    is subject to many risks, including but not limited to its
    ability to timely, cost-effectively and successfully:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    develop new products, improve
    and/or
    develop new applications for existing products, and adapt
    similar products for use by customers in different applications
    and/or
    markets with varying technical requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    appropriately price and achieve market acceptance of products;




 



     
        • 

    
    differentiate its products from those of competitors and any
    disruptive technologies, meet performance specifications, and
    drive efficiencies and cost reductions;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain operating flexibility to enable different responses to
    different markets, customers and applications;




 



     
        • 

    
    appropriately allocate resources, including R&D funding,
    among Applied’s products and between the development of new
    products and the enhancement of existing products;




 



     
        • 

    
    accurately forecast demand and meet production schedules for its
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    improve its manufacturing processes and achieve cost
    efficiencies across product offerings;




 



     
        • 

    
    adapt to changes in value offered by companies in different
    parts of the supply chain;




 



     
        • 

    
    qualify products for volume manufacturing with its customers;






    
    16



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    implement changes in its design engineering methodology,
    including those that enable reduction of material costs and
    cycle time, greater commonality of platforms and types of parts
    used in different systems, greater effectiveness of product life
    cycle management, and reduced energy usage and environmental
    impact; and




 



     
        • 

    
    successfully accomplish the simultaneous
    start-up of
    multiple integrated thin film solar production lines.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage these challenges, its
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    The
    entry into new markets and industries entails additional
    challenges.


 


    As part of its growth strategy, Applied must successfully expand
    into related or new markets and industries, either with its
    existing nanomanufacturing technology products or with new
    products developed internally or obtained through acquisitions.
    The entry into different markets involves additional challenges,
    including those arising from:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Applied’s ability to anticipate demand, capitalize on
    opportunities, and avoid or minimize risks;




 



     
        • 

    
    the complexity of managing multiple businesses with variations
    in production planning, execution, supply chain management and
    logistics;




 



     
        • 

    
    the adoption of new business models, such as the supply of an
    integrated production line consisting of a suite of Applied and
    non-Applied equipment to manufacture solar PVs;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to develop adequate new business processes and systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    Applied’s ability to rapidly expand its operations to meet
    increased demand and the associated effect on Applied’s
    working capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    new materials, processes and technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to attract, motivate and retain employees with skills
    and expertise in these new areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    new and more diverse customers and suppliers, including some
    with limited operating histories, uncertain
    and/or
    limited funding, evolving business models
    and/or
    locations in regions where Applied does not have existing
    operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    different customer service requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    new and/or
    different competitors with potentially more financial or other
    resources and industry experience;




 



     
        • 

    
    entry into new industries and countries, with differing levels
    of government involvement, laws and regulations, and business
    and employment practices;




 



     
        • 

    
    third parties’ intellectual property rights; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to comply with, or work to establish, industry
    standards and practices.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    its entry into new markets and industries, its business,
    financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to the risks of operating a global
    business.


 


    In fiscal 2008, approximately 81 percent of Applied’s
    net sales were to customers in regions outside the
    United States, with a majority of business from customers
    in Asia. Certain of Applied’s R&D
    and/or
    manufacturing facilities, as well as suppliers to Applied, are
    also located outside the United States, including in China. The
    global nature of Applied’s business and operations presents
    challenges, including but not limited to those arising from:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and
    demands;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations among, and changes in, local, regional, national or
    international laws and regulations (including tax and import and
    export restrictions), as well as the interpretation and
    application of such laws and regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    global trade issues, including those related to the
    interpretation and application of import and export licenses;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations in protection of intellectual property and other
    legal rights;






    
    17



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    positions taken by U.S. governmental agencies regarding
    possible national commercial
    and/or
    security issues posed by international business operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuating raw material and energy costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations in the ability to develop relationships with
    suppliers and other local businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates,
    including the relative position of the U.S. dollar;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in
    different locations;




 



     
        • 

    
    political instability, natural disasters (such as earthquakes,
    floods or storms), pandemics, terrorism or acts of war in
    locations where Applied has operations, suppliers or sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    cultural differences;




 



     
        • 

    
    customer- or government-supported efforts to promote the
    development and growth of local competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    shipping costs
    and/or
    delays;




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various
    countries; and




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainties with respect to growth rates for the manufacture
    and sales of semiconductors, LCDs and solar cells in the
    developing economies of certain countries.





 


    Many of these challenges are present in China, which is
    experiencing significant growth of both suppliers and
    competitors to Applied, and which Applied believes presents a
    large potential market for its products and opportunity for
    growth over the long term. In addition, Applied must regularly
    reassess the size, capability and location of its global
    infrastructure and make appropriate changes. These challenges
    may materially and adversely affect Applied’s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated
    customer base.


 


    Applied’s semiconductor and flat panel display customer
    bases historically have been, and are becoming even more, highly
    concentrated. In addition, certain customers have entered into
    strategic alliances or industry consortia that have increased
    the influence of key industry participants in technology
    decisions made by their partners. In the solar area, while the
    number of solar PV manufacturing customers is increasing as the
    number of market entrants grows, the size of contracts with
    particular customers is expected to rise substantially as the
    industry moves to greater solar module factory output capacity,
    including capacity sufficient to annually generate electricity
    on a gigawatt scale. In this environment, contracts or orders
    from a relatively limited number of semiconductor, display and
    solar manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to
    continue to account for, a substantial portion of Applied’s
    business. In addition, the mix and type of customers, and sales
    to any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to
    quarter and from year to year. If customers do not place orders,
    or they delay or cancel orders, Applied may not be able to
    replace the business. As Applied’s products are configured
    to customer specifications, changing, rescheduling or canceling
    orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. Major
    customers may also seek, and on occasion receive, pricing,
    payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial
    terms that are less favorable to Applied. In addition, certain
    customers have undergone significant ownership
    and/or
    management changes, and outsourced manufacturing activities,
    have engaged in collaboration or cooperation arrangements with
    other customers or have consolidated with other customers, which
    may result in additional complexities in managing customer
    relationships and transactions. These factors could have a
    material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and strategic
    investments.


 


    Applied has made, and in the future intends to make,
    acquisitions of, and investments in, companies, technologies or
    products in existing, related or new markets for Applied.
    Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited
    to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    diversion of management’s attention from other operational
    matters;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to complete acquisitions as anticipated or at all;






    
    18



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    inability to realize anticipated benefits;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to commercialize purchased technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to capitalize on characteristics of new markets that
    may be significantly different from Applied’s existing
    markets and where competitors may have stronger market positions;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposure to operational risks, rules and regulations to the
    extent such activities are located in countries where Applied
    has not historically conducted business;




 



     
        • 

    
    challenges associated with managing larger, more diverse and
    more widespread operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in
    key technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    ineffectiveness of an acquired company’s internal controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of
    technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of
    the acquired company or its product offerings;




 



     
        • 

    
    unknown, underestimated
    and/or
    undisclosed commitments or liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical
    resources or facilities for business needs; and





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    ineffective integration of operations, systems, technologies,
    products or employees of the acquired companies.





 


    Applied also makes strategic investments in other companies,
    including companies formed as joint ventures, which may decline
    in value
    and/or not
    meet desired objectives. The success of these investments
    depends on various factors over which Applied may have limited
    or no control and, particularly with respect to joint ventures,
    requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic
    partners. Mergers and acquisitions and strategic investments are
    inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to
    effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely
    affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    Manufacturing
    interruptions or delays could affect Applied’s ability to
    meet customer demand, while the failure to estimate customer
    demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete
    inventory.


 


    Applied’s business depends on its ability to supply
    equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly
    changing technical and volume requirements of its customers,
    which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts,
    components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from
    suppliers. Some key parts may be subject to long lead-times
    and/or
    obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of
    suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by
    suppliers located in countries other than the United States,
    including China. Applied may experience significant
    interruptions of its manufacturing operations, delays in its
    ability to deliver products or services, increased costs or
    customer order cancellations as a result of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality
    parts;




 



     
        • 

    
    volatility in the availability and cost of materials;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties or delays in obtaining required import or export
    approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    information technology or infrastructure failures;




 



     
        • 

    
    natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or
    storms); or




 



     
        • 

    
    other causes (such as regional economic downturns, pandemics,
    political instability, terrorism, or acts of war), could result
    in delayed deliveries, manufacturing inefficiencies, increased
    costs or order cancellations.





 


    In addition, Applied’s need to rapidly increase its
    business and manufacturing capacity to meet unanticipated
    increases in demand may exacerbate any interruptions in
    Applied’s manufacturing operations and supply chain and the
    associated effect on Applied’s working capital. Moreover,
    if actual demand for Applied’s products is different than
    expected, Applied may purchase more/fewer parts than necessary
    or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery
    of parts. The volatility of demand for capital equipment
    increases capital, technical and other risks for companies in
    the supply chain. Any or all of these factors could materially
    and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial
    condition and results of operations.



    
    19



Table of Contents





    The
    failure to successfully implement and conduct off-shoring and
    outsourcing activities and other operational initiatives could
    adversely affect results of operations.


 


    To better align its costs with market conditions, increase its
    presence in growing markets, enhance productivity, and improve
    efficiencies, Applied conducts engineering, software development
    and other operations in regions outside the United States,
    particularly India and China, and outsources certain functions
    to third parties, including companies in the United States,
    India, China and other countries. Outsourced functions include
    certain engineering, manufacturing, customer support, software
    development, information technology support, finance and
    administrative activities. The expanding role of third party
    providers has required changes to Applied’s existing
    operations and the adoption of new procedures and processes for
    retaining and managing these providers in order to realize the
    potential productivity and operational efficiencies, assure
    quality and continuity of supply, and protect Applied’s
    intellectual property. In addition, Applied has implemented
    several key operational initiatives intended to improve
    manufacturing efficiency, including integrate-to-order,
    module-final-test and
    merge-in-transit
    programs. Applied also is implementing a multi-year,
    company-wide program to transform certain business processes,
    which includes transitioning to a single enterprise resource
    planning (ERP) software system to perform various functions. The
    conversion to this new ERP system will include certain risks,
    including difficulties with data integrity and business
    interruption.


 


    If Applied does not effectively develop and implement its
    off-shoring and outsourcing strategies, if required export and
    other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if
    Applied’s third party providers do not perform as
    anticipated, or if there are delays or difficulties in
    implementing a new ERP system or enhancing business processes,
    Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or
    cost efficiencies, and may experience operational difficulties,
    increased costs (including energy and transportation),
    manufacturing interruptions or delays, inefficiencies in the
    structure
    and/or
    operation of its supply chain, loss of its intellectual property
    rights, quality issues, increased product time-to-market
    and/or
    inefficient allocation of human resources, any or all of which
    could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    The
    ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital
    to Applied’s success.


 


    Applied’s success and competitiveness depend in large part
    on its ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees.
    Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors,
    including fluctuations in global economic and industry
    conditions, changes in Applied’s management or leadership,
    competitors’ hiring practices, cost reduction activities,
    and the effectiveness of Applied’s compensation programs,
    including its equity-based programs. Applied periodically
    evaluates its overall compensation program and makes
    adjustments, as appropriate, to enhance its competitiveness. If
    Applied does not successfully attract, retain and motivate key
    employees, Applied may be unable to capitalize on its
    opportunities and its operating results may be materially and
    adversely affected.


 



    Changes
    in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect results of
    operations.


 


    As a global company, Applied is subject to taxation in the
    United States and various other countries. Significant judgment
    is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities.
    Applied’s future annual and quarterly tax rates could be
    affected by numerous factors, including changes in the:
    (1) applicable tax laws; (2) composition of pre-tax
    income in countries with differing tax rates; or
    (3) valuation of Applied’s deferred tax assets and
    liabilities. In addition, Applied is subject to regular
    examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax
    authorities. Applied regularly assesses the likelihood of
    favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these
    examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for
    income taxes. Although Applied believes its tax estimates are
    reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final
    determination will not be materially different from the
    treatment reflected in Applied’s historical income tax
    provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely
    affect Applied’s financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or
    claims and protection of intellectual property
    rights.


 


    Applied from time to time is, and in the future may be, involved
    in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement,
    intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental
    regulations, securities, contracts, product



    
    20



Table of Contents




    performance, product liability, unfair competition, employment
    and other matters. In addition, Applied on occasion receives
    notification from customers who believe that Applied owes them
    indemnification or other obligations related to claims made
    against customers by third parties. These legal proceedings and
    claims, whether with or without merit, may be time-consuming and
    expensive to prosecute or defend, divert management’s
    attention and resources,
    and/or
    inhibit Applied’s ability to sell its products. There can
    be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal
    proceedings or claims. Applied previously entered into a mutual
    covenant-not-to-sue arrangement with one of its competitors to
    decrease the risk of patent infringement lawsuits in the future.
    There can be no assurance that the intended results of this
    arrangement will be achieved or that Applied will be able to
    adequately protect its intellectual property rights with the
    restrictions associated with such a covenant. In addition,
    Applied’s success depends in significant part on the
    protection of its intellectual property and other rights.
    Infringement of Applied’s rights by a third party, such as
    the unauthorized manufacture or sale of equipment or spare
    parts, could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue
    opportunities for Applied. Applied’s intellectual property
    rights may not provide significant competitive advantages if
    they are circumvented, invalidated, rendered obsolete by the
    rapid pace of technological change, or if Applied does not
    adequately protect or assert these rights. Furthermore, the laws
    and practices of other countries, including China, India, Taiwan
    and Korea, permit the protection and enforcement of
    Applied’s rights to varying extents, which may not be
    sufficient to protect Applied’s rights. If Applied is not
    able to obtain or enforce intellectual property rights, resolve
    or settle claims, obtain necessary licenses on commercially
    reasonable terms,
    and/or
    successfully prosecute or defend its intellectual property
    position, Applied’s business, financial condition and
    results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental and
    safety regulations.


 


    Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in
    connection with its global business operations, including but
    not limited to: regulations related to the development,
    manufacture and use of its products; recycling and disposal of
    materials used in its products or in producing its products; the
    operation of its facilities; and the use of its real property.
    The failure or inability to comply with existing or future
    environmental and safety regulations could result in:
    (1) significant remediation liabilities; (2) the
    imposition of fines; (3) the suspension or termination of
    the development, manufacture, sale or use of certain of its
    products; (4) limitations on the operation of its
    facilities or ability to use its real property;
    and/or
    (5) a decrease in the value of its real property, each of
    which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory
    environment.


 


    Applied is subject to various risks related to: (1) new,
    different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and
    regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies
    and/or
    regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates;
    (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional
    regulatory agencies related to international trade; and
    (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and
    regulations. If Applied is found by a court or regulatory agency
    not to be in compliance with applicable laws, rules or
    regulations, Applied’s business, financial condition and
    results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is subject to internal control evaluations and attestation
    requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act.


 


    Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
    Applied must include in its Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    a report of management on the effectiveness of Applied’s
    internal control over financial reporting. Ongoing compliance
    with this requirement is complex, costly and time-consuming. If
    Applied fails to maintain effective internal control over
    financial reporting or Applied’s management does not timely
    assess the adequacy of such internal control, Applied could be
    subject to regulatory sanctions and the public’s perception
    of Applied may decline.



    
    21



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1B