Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”
    Other risks and uncertainties are disclosed in Applied’s
    prior Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. These
    and many other factors could affect Applied’s future
    financial condition and operating results and could cause actual
    results to differ materially from expectations based on
    forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by
    Applied or on its behalf. Applied undertakes no obligation to
    revise or update any forward-looking statements.


 


    The following information should be read in conjunction with the
    Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual
    Report. All references to fiscal year apply to Applied’s
    fiscal year which ends on the last Sunday in October of each
    year.







Table of Contents








 



    PART I







 




    
    



    
    Item 1:  

    
    Business





 


    Organized in 1967, Applied, a Delaware corporation, develops,
    manufactures, markets and services fabrication equipment for the
    worldwide semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries.
    Customers for these products include manufacturers of
    semiconductor chips and wafers, flat panel displays, and other
    electronic devices such as solar photovoltaic (PV) cells. These
    customers use what they manufacture in their own products or
    sell them to other companies for use in advanced electronic
    components.


 


    During fiscal 2006, Applied made certain changes to its internal
    financial reporting structure and, as a result, is reporting
    four segments: Silicon, Fab Solutions, Display, and Adjacent
    Technologies. A summary of net sales, operating income,
    depreciation/amortization, capital expenditures and assets for
    reportable segments is found in Note 10 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements. A discussion of factors potentially
    affecting Applied’s operations is set forth under
    “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, which is incorporated
    herein by reference.


 



    Silicon
    Segment


 


    Applied’s Silicon segment comprises a wide range of
    manufacturing equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips.
    Applied currently offers systems that perform most of the
    primary steps in the chip fabrication process, including: atomic
    layer deposition (ALD), chemical vapor deposition (CVD),
    physical vapor deposition (PVD), electrochemical plating (ECP),
    etch, ion implantation, rapid thermal processing (RTP), chemical
    mechanical planarization (CMP), wafer wet cleaning, wafer
    metrology and inspection, and systems that etch, measure and
    inspect circuit patterns on masks used in the photolithography
    process.


 


    Most chips are built on a silicon wafer base and include a
    variety of circuit components, such as transistors and other
    devices, that are connected by multiple layers of wiring
    (interconnects). To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors
    and other circuit components are first created on the surface of
    the wafer by performing a series of processes to deposit and
    selectively remove successive film layers. Similar processes are
    then used to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer.
    As the density of the circuit components increases to enable
    greater computing power in the same or smaller area, the
    complexity of building the chip also increases, necessitating
    more process steps to form smaller structures and more intricate
    wiring schemes. A typical, simplified process sequence for
    building the wiring portion of chips involves initially
    depositing a dielectric film layer onto the base layer of
    circuit components using a CVD system. An etch system is then
    used to create openings and patterns in the dielectric layer. To
    form the metal wiring, these openings and patterns are
    subsequently filled with conducting material using PVD
    and/or ECP
    technologies. A CMP step then polishes the wafer to achieve a
    flat surface. Additional deposition, etch and CMP steps are then
    performed to build up the layers of wiring needed to complete
    the interconnection of the circuit elements to form the chip.
    Advanced chip designs require about 500 steps involving these
    and other processes to complete the manufacturing cycle.


 


    Over time, the semiconductor industry has migrated to
    increasingly larger wafers to build chips. The predominant wafer
    size used for volume production today is 200 millimeter (mm), or
    eight-inch, wafers, but a substantial number of advanced fabs
    now use 300mm, or
    12-inch,
    wafers to gain the economic advantages of a larger surface area.
    The majority of new fab capacity is 300mm. Applied offers a
    comprehensive range of systems and, through its Fab Solutions
    segment, products and services to support 200mm and 300mm wafer
    processing.


 


    A majority of process steps used in chipmaking are performed to
    build the interconnect, a complex matrix of microscopic wires
    that carry electrical signals to connect the transistor and
    capacitor components of a chip. While some customers are still
    using aluminum as the main conducting material for the
    interconnect, many have transitioned to copper. Copper has lower
    resistance than aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller
    area. Applied is the leading supplier of systems for
    manufacturing copper-based chips, and supplies systems for
    depositing, etching and planarizing the copper interconnect
    layers.


 


    Complementing the transition to copper to improve chip speed is
    the use of low dielectric constant (low k) films to replace
    silicon dioxide material as the insulator between the copper
    wiring structures. Applied leads the industry in providing low k
    dielectric systems to chip manufacturers and many of these
    customers use the Company’s



    
    1



Table of Contents




    Applied Producer Black
    Diamond®
    system in volume production. Applied’s second-generation
    system for low k dielectric film, the Applied Producer Black
    Diamond II, further reduces the dielectric constant to
    enhance the speed of customers’ most advanced chip designs.


 


    The transistor portion of the chip is another area in which
    semiconductor manufacturers are improving their device designs
    to enhance speed. Applied has the industry’s largest
    portfolio of technically advanced products for building smaller
    and faster transistors. One such area is strain engineering, a
    technique that stretches or compresses the space between atoms,
    allowing current to flow more quickly, thus greatly enhancing
    chip performance. Applied leads the equipment industry in
    providing solutions to enable these applications with products
    such as its Applied Producer Stress Nitride, Applied Producer
    HARP (high aspect ratio process) and Applied Centura Epi systems.


 


    Most of Applied’s products are single-wafer systems with
    multiple process chambers attached to a base platform. Each
    wafer is processed separately in its own environment, allowing
    precise process control, while the system’s multiple
    chambers enable simultaneous, high productivity manufacturing.
    Applied sells most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems on
    four basic platforms: the
    Centura®,
    the
    Endura®,
    the
    Producer®
    and the
    Vantage®.
    These platforms currently support ALD, CVD, PVD, etch and RTP
    technologies.


 


    The following summarizes Applied’s portfolio of products
    and their associated process technology areas reported under its
    Silicon segment.


 



    Deposition


 


    Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During
    deposition, layers of dielectric (an insulator), barrier, or
    electrically conductive (typically metal) films are deposited or
    grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to
    perform the four main types of deposition: ALD, CVD, PVD and
    ECP. In addition, Applied’s RTP systems can be used to
    perform certain types of dielectric deposition.


 



    Atomic
    Layer Deposition


 


    ALD is an emerging technology in which atoms are deposited one
    layer at a time to build chip structures. This technology
    enables customers to fabricate thin films of either conducting
    or insulating material with uniform coverage in
    sub-nanometer
    sized structures. Applied offers ALD chambers for depositing
    tungsten and tantalum nitride films. The Applied Endura
    iCuBStm
    product is the industry’s first system to integrate ALD and
    PVD chambers on a single platform for depositing critical
    barrier and seed layers in copper interconnects. The Applied
    Centura
    iSprinttm
    Tungsten system (iSprint) combines an ALD chamber, which
    deposits a tungsten nucleation film, with a CVD tungsten bulk
    fill process in one system. The iSprint is used to form contact
    structures that connect the transistors to the wiring areas of
    the chip.


 



    Chemical
    Vapor Deposition


 


    CVD is used by customers to deposit dielectric and metal films
    on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of
    the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming
    a thin film of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be
    silicon oxide, single-crystal epitaxial silicon, amorphous
    silicon, silicon nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings,
    low k dielectric (for highly efficient insulating materials),
    aluminum, titanium, titanium nitride, polysilicon, tungsten,
    refractory metals or silicides. Applied offers the following CVD
    products and technologies:


 


    The Applied Producer CVD system — This
    high-throughput platform features
    Twin-Chambertm
    modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up
    to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer
    platform, giving it a simultaneous processing capacity of six
    wafers. Many dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this
    platform. Key processes that help chipmakers extend their
    current lithography tools are the Applied Producer
    APF-etm
    (advanced patterning film) and the Applied Producer
    DARC®
    (dielectric anti-reflective coating) films. Together, they
    provide a film stack with the precise dimensional control and
    compatibility needed to cost-effectively pattern nano-scale
    features without additional integration complexity.



    
    2



Table of Contents




    The Applied Centura Ultima
    HDP-CVD®
    system — High-density plasma CVD (HDP-CVD) is used
    to fill very small, deep spaces (gap-fill) with dielectric film.
    This product is used by a number of major integrated circuit
    manufacturers for gap-fill applications, including the
    deposition of silicon oxides in substrate isolation structures,
    contacts and interconnects.


 


    Low k Dielectric Films — Many integrated
    circuit manufacturers are now incorporating new low k dielectric
    materials in their copper-based chip designs to further improve
    interconnect speed. The Applied Producer Black Diamond CVD low k
    system is being used by several customers in volume production
    to produce some of the industry’s most advanced devices.
    Using conventional CVD equipment, the Black Diamond product
    provides customers with a proven, cost-effective way to
    transition to this new material. The Applied Producer Black
    Diamond II is a second-generation dielectric that provides
    a lower k-value film for building faster 65 nanometer (nm)
    generation and below chip designs. A complementary low k
    dielectric, called the Applied Producer
    BLOktm
    (Barrier low k), enables the complete, multi-layer dielectric
    structure to benefit from low k technology.


 


    Epitaxial Deposition — Epitaxial silicon
    (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform
    crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base
    for the device circuitry. Epi technology is used in an
    increasing number of integrated circuit devices in both the
    wafer substrate and transistor areas of a chip to enhance speed.
    The Applied Centura Epi system integrates pre- and post-epi
    processes on the same system to improve film quality and reduce
    production costs. This system is also being used for
    silicon-germanium epi technology, which can reduce power usage
    and increase speed in certain types of advanced chips. For
    emerging transistor designs, the Applied Centura RP Epi system
    offers selective epi processes to enable faster transistor
    switching without the need to shrink the scale of the device.


 


    Polysilicon Deposition — Polysilicon is a type
    of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure
    within the integrated circuit device. The Applied Centura
    Polygentm
    LPCVD (low pressure chemical vapor deposition) system is a
    single-wafer, multi-chamber product that deposits thin,
    polysilicon films at high temperatures to create transistor gate
    structures. To address the challenging requirements of shrinking
    transistor gate structures, the Applied Centura DPN Gate Stack
    system integrates chambers for decoupled plasma nitridation
    (DPN), RTP anneal and polysilicon deposition on one platform to
    enable superior film quality and material properties.


 


    Silicon Nitride Deposition — The Applied
    Centura
    SiNgen®
    Plus LPCVD system is a single-wafer, high-temperature
    system that deposits silicon nitride films for transistor
    applications. This system minimizes the amount of time the wafer
    is exposed to high temperatures and reduces particles while
    improving operating cost and productivity in critical transistor
    nitride layers.


 


    Aluminum Deposition — In fiscal 2006, the
    Company introduced its Applied CVD Al (aluminum) process
    technology for building high-density interconnects in Flash and
    DRAM memory chips. Aluminum continues to be the material used by
    many memory manufacturers for interconnects. This advanced
    process, for
    sub-90nm
    generations, enables customers to replace tungsten structures
    with aluminum to achieve faster chips with fewer steps and less
    cost.


 


    Tungsten Deposition — Tungsten is used in the
    contact area of a chip that connects the transistors to the
    wiring circuitry. In aluminum-based devices, tungsten is also
    used in the structures that connect the multiple layers of
    aluminum wiring. The Company has two products for depositing
    tungsten: the Applied
    Centura Sprint®
    Tungsten CVD system for 90nm and below devices and the Applied
    Centura iSprint ALD/CVD system for more advanced applications.
    The latter product combines ALD technology and CVD chambers on
    the same platform.


 



    Physical
    Vapor Deposition


 


    PVD, also called sputtering, is a physical process in which
    atoms of a gas, such as argon, are accelerated toward a metal
    target. The metal atoms chip off, or sputter away, and are then
    deposited on the wafer. Applied leads the industry in PVD
    technology with its Applied Endura PVD system. This system
    offers a broad range of advanced



    
    3



Table of Contents




    deposition processes, including aluminum, aluminum alloys,
    cobalt, titanium/titanium nitride, tantalum/tantalum nitride,
    tungsten/tungsten nitride, nickel, vanadium and copper (Cu).


 


    The Applied Endura CuBS (copper barrier/seed) PVD system is
    widely used by customers for fabricating copper-based chips.
    Using PVD technology, the system deposits critical layers that
    prevent copper material from entering other areas of the device
    and primes the structure for the subsequent deposition of bulk
    copper by electrochemical plating. In fiscal 2006, Applied
    enhanced this system with new pre-clean chamber technology,
    extending the system’s capabilities to 45nm-generation and
    below copper-low k interconnects.


 


    The Applied Endura system’s highly flexible, multi-chamber
    architecture allows the integration of multiple PVD processes or
    combinations of metal CVD and PVD technologies on the same
    system. In addition to the integrated Applied Endura iCuBS
    ALD/PVD system (discussed in the Atomic Layer Deposition
    section), the Applied Endura
    iLBtm
    (integrated liner barrier) system combines a PVD chamber for
    depositing titanium with a CVD chamber for titanium nitride
    deposition to form critical lining layers of interconnect
    structures. These structures are subsequently filled with
    tungsten, aluminum or other materials. In fiscal 2006, Applied
    announced significant advances to its Endura iLB system to meet
    the requirements of customers’ leading-edge device designs.


 



    Electrochemical
    Plating


 


    Electrochemical plating is a process by which metal atoms from a
    chemical fluid (an electrolyte) are deposited on the surface of
    an immersed object. Its main application in the semiconductor
    industry is to deposit copper in interconnect wiring structures.
    This process step follows the deposition of barrier and seed
    layers that prevent the copper from contaminating other areas of
    the device and improve the adhesion of the copper film.


 


    The Applied
    SlimCelltm
    ECP (electrochemical plating) system offers a small-volume cell
    design that enables a reduction in defect levels compared to
    conventional systems while reducing chemical consumption.


 



    Etch


 


    Etching is used many times throughout the integrated circuit
    manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the
    surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated
    with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist. A
    photolithography process then projects the circuit pattern onto
    the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by
    the photoresist pattern. Applied offers a full range of systems
    for etching dielectric, metal and silicon films to meet the
    requirements of
    sub-100nm
    processing.


 


    For dielectric applications, the Applied Centura
    eMax®
    system etches a broad range of dielectric films in the contact
    and interconnect regions of the chip. Applied’s Producer
    Etch system utilizes the Company’s Twin-Chamber Producer
    platform concept to target cost-sensitive dielectric etch
    applications in 90nm and below design geometries. To address
    advanced low k etch applications, the Applied Centura
    Enabler®
    Etch system performs etch, strip and clean steps in a single
    chamber. The Enabler’s
    all-in-one
    capability streamlines the process flow for 65nm and below chip
    designs and significantly reduces operating costs.


 


    The Applied Centura
    AdvantEdgetm
    Silicon Etch system offers chipmakers high precision gate
    etching for 65nm and 45nm-generation devices. For etching
    metals, Applied launched the Applied Centura AdvantEdge Metal
    Etch system in fiscal 2006. This system enables customers to
    extend aluminum interconnect technology to
    sub-70nm
    dimensions for Flash and DRAM memory applications.


 



    Ion
    Implantation


 


    During ion implantation, silicon wafers are bombarded by a beam
    of ions, called dopants, that penetrate (or implant) the film
    surface to a desired depth. The implantation step is used during
    transistor fabrication to change electrical properties of a
    material and achieve a particular electrical performance.
    Low-energy, high current implant technology is important to
    enabling the fabrication of smaller structures, which
    contributes to faster transistor performance. The Applied
    Quantum®
    X Plus Implant system provides chipmakers with a
    production-worthy, single-wafer, high-current implanter that
    enables transistor scaling beyond the 45nm node. The Quantum X
    Plus system’s fixed beam and precision mechanical
    scanning system provide precise energy control and low defect
    levels to deliver the process technology needed to achieve the
    most difficult and critical implants.



    
    4



Table of Contents





    Rapid
    Thermal Processing


 


    RTP is a process in which a wafer is subjected to rapid bursts
    of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to
    more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. A rapid
    thermal process is used mainly for modifying the properties of
    deposited films. The Applied Centura
    Radiance®Plus
    and Applied Vantage RadiancePlus RTP systems feature
    the same advanced RTP technology with differing platform
    designs. While the multi-chamber Centura platform offers
    exceptional process flexibility, the streamlined two-chamber
    Vantage platform is designed for dedicated high-volume
    manufacturing. These single-wafer RTP systems are also used for
    growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films, deposition
    steps that traditional large batch furnaces can no longer
    achieve with the necessary precision and control. For flash
    memory applications, the Applied Vantage
    RadOxtm
    system deposits high-performance transistor gate oxides with
    high productivity and low operating cost.


 



    Chemical
    Mechanical Planarization


 


    The CMP process removes material from a wafer to create a flat
    (planarized) surface. This process allows subsequent
    photolithography patterning steps to occur with greater accuracy
    and enables film layers to build with minimal height variations.
    The Company’s 200mm Applied Mirra
    Mesa®
    systems and 300mm Applied
    Reflexion®
    systems led the industry in CMP technology with important
    features such as integrated cleaning, film measurement and
    process control capabilities. The Company’s 300mm Applied
    Reflexion LK
    Ecmptm
    system features proprietary electrochemical mechanical
    planarization technology to provide a high-performance,
    cost-effective and extendible solution for copper/low k
    interconnects at the 65nm node and below. The Ecmp system
    removes bulk copper at a high rate by electric charge, making it
    ideal for fragile ultra-low k films.


 



    Metrology
    and Wafer Inspection


 


    Applied offers several types of products that are used to
    measure and inspect the wafer during various stages of the
    fabrication process:


 



    Critical
    Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes
    (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs)


 


    Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to
    form images of microscopic features, or critical dimensions
    (CDs), of a patterned wafer at extremely high magnification.
    Applied’s SEM products or systems provide customers with
    full automation, along with the high accuracy and sensitivity
    needed for measuring very small CDs. The Applied
    VeritySEMtm
    Metrology system uses proprietary SEM imaging technology to
    enable precise control of the lithography and etching processes.
    The VeritySEM measures CDs with less than 5 angstrom
    precision — a requirement for 45nm device
    production — and incorporates automation and software
    advancements for significantly higher throughput in production.
    The Company’s OPC
    Checktm
    software for the VeritySEM system performs automated
    qualification of OPC-based (optical proximity correction) chip
    designs, significantly reducing mask (see Mask Making section
    below) verification time over conventional manual methods.


 


    DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (such as particles,
    scratches or residues) that are first located by a defect
    detection system and then classify the defects to identify their
    source. The high-throughput, fully automatic Applied
    SEMVisiontm
    G3 Defect Analysis products enable customers to use this
    technology as an integral part of their production lines to
    analyze defects as small as 30nm with industry-leading
    throughput. The Applied SEMVision G3 FIB integrates advanced
    defect review SEM capability with automated focused ion beam
    (FIB) technology in one system. The FIB provides a
    cross-sectional view of the defects reviewed by the SEM,
    enabling chipmakers to analyze the defects in minutes as part of
    their in-line review process.


 



    Wafer
    Inspection


 


    Using laser-based technology, defects can be detected on
    patterned wafers (wafers with printed circuit images) as they
    move between processing steps. Defects include particles, open
    circuit lines, and shorts between lines. Incorporating key
    advances in imaging technology, the Applied ComPlus
    3Ttm
    Inspection system, for darkfield applications, detects defects
    in devices with design rules of 65nm and below with the high
    speed required for customers’ volume production lines. The
    Applied
    UVisiontm
    Inspection system is the industry’s first laser-based 3D
    brightfield tool. Utilizing multi-beam, deep ultraviolet (DUV)
    laser illumination and high efficiency detectors, the



    
    5



Table of Contents




    UVision system uncovers critical defects on the wafer that have
    not been detected before by other inspection systems, enabling
    customers to rapidly resolve performance-limiting defect issues
    and achieve greater chip yields.


 



    Mask
    Making


 


    Masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer
    microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since an imperfection
    in a mask may be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be
    virtually defect-free. Applied provides systems for etching,
    measuring and inspecting masks. The Applied Tetra II Mask
    etch system is based on the Company’s production-proven
    decoupled plasma source (DPS) wafer etch technology and is the
    semiconductor industry’s most advanced etch tool for
    fabricating masks. The Applied RETicle SEM system, built on
    Applied’s proven CD-SEM platform, measures virtually all
    mask types with
    sub-1nm
    precision, meeting the requirements of the industry’s most
    advanced masks.


 



    Fab
    Solutions Segment


 


    Through its Fab Solutions segment, Applied provides products and
    services designed to improve the performance and productivity of
    semiconductor manufacturers’ fab operations. These products
    embody the in-depth expertise and best known methods of
    Applied’s extensive global support infrastructure.


 


    Fab Solutions serves a critical role in Applied’s ability
    to continuously support customers’ production requirements.
    Approximately 3,100 trained customer engineers and process
    support engineers are deployed in more than a dozen countries.
    These engineers are usually located at or near customers’
    fab sites and service over 20,000 installed Applied systems and
    non-Applied systems.


 


    Applied offers a broad range of products to maintain, service
    and optimize the operations of customers’ fabs. Applied
    Materials Genuine
    Partstm
    include spare parts manufactured to Applied’s strict
    technical specifications and quality standards. Applied
    Certified Service
    Productstm
    provide customers with optimized tool performance for improved
    total cost of ownership and a higher return on investment.
    Applied also offers remanufactured equipment, product
    enhancements and technical training for customers.


 


    As part of its eService Solutions, Applied offers
    FAB300tm,
    a manufacturing execution system (MES), to monitor and control
    fab manufacturing activities. This system is used in
    semiconductor fabs, test, assembly and packaging facilities, and
    flat panel display (FPD) manufacturing facilities. Applied also
    offers a suite of diagnostic software that links hardware,
    process and service data from different processing systems
    throughout the fab. The Applied
    NeXustm
    SPC product is a new diagnostic tool that performs split-second
    analysis of process conditions in Applied’s processing
    systems.


 


    Metron Technology, Inc. (Metron), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
    Applied Materials, offers a range of products and services for
    fab operations support. Metron’s products include fab and
    sub-fab
    systems, wafer management services, chamber performance
    services, gas and fluid handling components, and other services
    that are critical to semiconductor manufacturing. With
    Metron’s acquisition of ChemTrace in fiscal 2006, Metron
    now offers chipmakers a wide range of services to analyze and
    identify the sources of surface or airborne contamination.
    Metron also offers
    EcoSys®
    treatment systems to address a broad spectrum of semiconductor
    abatement applications. These energy-saving solutions enable
    chipmakers to meet their most stringent environmental goals.


 



    Display
    Segment


 


    Applied also manufactures and services equipment to fabricate
    flat panel displays (FPDs). These systems are used by FPD
    manufacturers to build and test thin-film transistor liquid
    crystal display (TFT-LCD) panels for televisions, computer
    displays and other consumer-oriented electronic applications.
    While similarities exist between the technologies utilized in
    chipmaking and display fabrication, there are significant
    differences, such as in the size and composition of the
    substrate (wafer vs. panel). FPD panels can be more than
    70 times larger in area than today’s largest wafers (300mm
    diameter), and wafers are made of silicon, while FPD panels are
    made of glass.


 


    Applied supplies a wide range of systems that process and test
    many different panel sizes. To meet consumers’ growing
    demand for larger, more cost-efficient LCD TVs, FPD
    manufacturers have continually increased the size of panels that
    can be processed. Leading-edge substrates, sized at 2.2 x 2.5
    meters (m), now processed by Generation



    
    6



Table of Contents




    (Gen) 8.5 systems, are designed to enable the production of up
    to six
    55-inch LCD
    TV screens. Applied announced three new systems for
    manufacturing Gen-8.5 panels in October 2006.


 


    The AKT-55K PECVD (plasma-enhanced CVD) system, used for
    fabricating the transistor layer of Gen-8.5 panels, features
    Applied’s multi-chamber platform architecture. For
    fabricating the color filter layer of these panels, Applied
    offers a fully automated vertical sputtering system, the AKT-NEW
    ARISTOtm
    2200. Applied acquired the NEW
    ARISTOtm
    technology during fiscal 2006 as part of its acquisition of
    Applied Films Corporation (Applied Films).


 


    Complementing these systems, Applied also offers electron beam
    systems for testing substrates during production for defective
    pixels and other imperfections. The AKT-55K EBT is a Gen-8.5
    tester that features one of the industry’s fastest and most
    accurate pixel test technology with the lowest operating cost.
    The electron beam system’s non-contact test technology
    enables safe testing of high-value LCD TV panels without
    damaging or scratching the display.


 



    Adjacent
    Technologies Segment


 


    The acquisition of Applied Films, a supplier of thin film
    deposition equipment, accelerated Applied’s entry into
    growing new markets, such as solar PV cells, flexible
    electronics and energy-efficient glass.


 


    In the solar PV area, Applied offers a suite of manufacturing
    systems to enable customers to increase the conversion
    efficiency and yields of their PV devices, thus helping to lower
    the overall cost per watt for solar electricity. These include
    equipment as well as processes, material-handling technologies
    and services to support the manufacture of both
    crystalline-silicon and thin-film silicon solar cells.
    Applied’s
    ATONtm
    in-line sputtering system provides quality deposition, high
    throughput and low cost of ownership for both thin-film and
    multi-or mono-crystalline silicon.


 


    Applied also provides high-performance,
    roll-to-roll
    vacuum web coating systems for depositing a wide range of films
    on flexible substrates for functional, aesthetic or optical
    properties. The
    TOPMETtm
    system is capable of handling substrates in roll widths from
    1.25-4.5m with high throughput and low cost of ownership.


 


    Applied offers large-area sputter coating equipment for the
    production of low-emissivity and solar control architectural
    glass. The AXL
    870tm
    coating system is a highly flexible and cost-effective tool that
    customers can easily reconfigure to produce a variety of
    products to meet the challenges of a changing market.


 



    Backlog


 


    Applied’s backlog increased from $2.6 billion at
    October 30, 2005 to $3.4 billion at October 29,
    2006. Applied manufactures its systems based on order backlog
    and customer commitments. Backlog includes only orders for which
    written authorizations have been accepted and shipment dates
    within 12 months have been assigned, or shipment has
    occurred but revenue has not been recognized, and also includes
    contractual service revenue and maintenance fees to be earned
    within the next 12 months. Backlog increased
    $285 million as a result of the acquisition of Applied
    Films during fiscal 2006. Backlog adjustments for fiscal 2006
    totaled $194 million, which consisted primarily of
    cancellations and currency adjustments. Customers may delay
    delivery of products or cancel orders prior to shipment, subject
    to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible changes in
    delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, Applied’s
    backlog on any particular date is not necessarily indicative of
    actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery
    schedules
    and/or a
    reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a
    material adverse effect on Applied’s business and results
    of operations.


 



    Manufacturing,
    Raw Materials and Supplies


 


    Applied’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of
    assembling various commercial and proprietary components into
    finished systems. Products in the Silicon segment are
    manufactured in Austin, Texas; Horsham, England; and Rehovot,
    Israel. Remanufactured products in the Fab Solutions segment are
    produced primarily in Austin, Texas. Products in the Display
    segment are manufactured in Santa Clara, California;
    Alzenau, Germany; and Tainan, Taiwan. Products in the Adjacent
    Technologies segment are primarily manufactured in Alzenau,
    Germany. Manufacturing requires raw materials, including a wide
    variety of mechanical and electrical components,



    
    7



Table of Contents




    to be manufactured to Applied’s specifications. Applied
    uses numerous companies to supply parts, components and
    subassemblies (parts) for the manufacture and support of its
    products. Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure
    that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this
    is not always possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be
    obtained from only a single supplier or a limited group of
    suppliers. Applied will continue to seek to reduce costs and to
    lower the risks of production and service interruptions, as well
    as shortages of key parts, by: (1) qualifying and selecting
    alternate suppliers for key parts; (2) monitoring the
    financial condition of key suppliers; (3) maintaining
    appropriate inventories of key parts; and (4) qualifying
    new parts on a timely basis.


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering


 


    Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued
    development of new products. Applied’s significant
    investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E)
    has generally enabled it to deliver new products and
    technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus
    allowing customers to incorporate these products into their
    manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology
    selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers
    to design systems and processes that meet their planned
    technical and production requirements. Product development and
    engineering organizations are located primarily in the United
    States, as well as in Europe and Israel. In addition, Applied
    outsources certain RD&E activities, some of which are
    performed outside the United States. Process support and
    customer demonstration laboratories are located in the United
    States, Europe and Israel.


 


    Applied invested $992 million (12 percent of net
    sales) for fiscal 2004, $941 million (13 percent of
    net sales) for fiscal 2005 and $1.2 billion
    (13 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2006 in RD&E for
    product development and engineering programs to create new
    products and to improve existing technologies and products.
    Applied has spent an average of 15 percent of net sales on
    RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for
    specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing
    programs for automation control systems, materials research and
    environmental control that have applications to its products. In
    fiscal 2006, Applied focused on developing systems for
    customers’ new chip designs with 65nm and below geometries,
    including systems to enable faster and denser transistor and
    interconnect structures.


 



    Marketing
    and Sales


 


    Applied manages its business and reports financial results based
    on the segments described above. Because of the highly technical
    nature of the products, Applied markets and sells products
    worldwide through a direct sales force. For fiscal 2006, net
    sales to customers in each region as a percentage of
    Applied’s total net sales were: Taiwan 23 percent,
    North America (primarily the United States) 19 percent,
    Korea 18 percent, Japan 16 percent, Asia-Pacific
    (including China) 13 percent, and Europe 11 percent.


 


    General economic conditions impact Applied’s business and
    financial results. From time to time, the markets in which
    products are sold experience weak economic conditions that may
    negatively impact sales. Applied’s business is usually not
    seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical, based on capital
    equipment investment by major semiconductor, flat panel display
    and other manufacturers. These expenditures depend on many
    factors, including anticipated market demand and pricing for
    semiconductors, flat panel displays, solar cells, architectural
    glass and other substrates; the development of new technologies;
    factory utilization; and global and regional economic conditions.


 


    During fiscal 2006, more than 80 percent of Applied’s
    net sales were to regions outside of the United States. Managing
    Applied’s global operations presents challenges and
    involves uncertainties that may affect Applied’s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and
    long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic
    regions is included in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. During fiscal 2004, no individual customer
    accounted for more than 10 percent of Applied’s net
    sales. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. accounted for
    10 percent of Applied’s net sales in 2005 and
    11 percent of Applied’s net sales in 2006. These net
    sales were for products in multiple reportable segments.



    
    8



Table of Contents





    Competition


 


    The global semiconductor equipment and related industries are
    highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological
    change. Applied’s ability to compete depends primarily on
    its ability to commercialize its technology, continually improve
    its products and develop new products that meet constantly
    evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors
    include technical capability and differentiation, productivity
    and cost-effectiveness. The importance of these factors varies
    according to customers’ needs, including product
    requirements, applications and the timing and circumstances of
    purchasing decisions. Substantial competition exists in all
    areas of Applied’s business. Competitors range from small
    companies that compete with a single product
    and/or in a
    single region, to global companies with a range of products.
    Applied’s ability to compete requires a high level of
    investment in RD&E and in marketing, sales and customer
    support activities. Management believes that Applied’s
    products have strong competitive positions. Applied is a global
    leader in the semiconductor equipment and related markets. In
    addition, Applied is expanding into adjacent markets where
    customers may benefit from the Company’s expertise in
    nanomanufacturing technologies.


 


    The competitive environment for each segment is described below:


 


    Products within the Silicon segment are subject to rapid change,
    with customers frequently moving to smaller dimensions, larger
    wafer sizes and new materials for fabricating chips. While
    certain existing technologies may be adapted to new
    requirements, some applications create the need for an entirely
    different technical approach. The rapid pace of technological
    change creates opportunities for many existing and new
    competitors, and can quickly diminish the value of current
    technologies. To compete effectively, Applied must offer a broad
    portfolio of technically differentiated products. Applied must
    allocate resources across these products and may not fund or
    invest in individual products to the same degree as competitors
    who specialize in fewer products.


 


    Products and services within the Fab Solutions segment are
    subject to a highly competitive environment characterized by
    demanding worldwide service requirements and a diverse group of
    competitors. To compete effectively, Applied must offer products
    and services to help reduce costs and improve the productivity
    of customers’ fab operations. Significant competitive
    factors include productivity, cost-effectiveness, and the level
    of technical service and support. The importance of these
    factors varies according to customers’ needs and the type
    of products or services offered.


 


    Products and services within the Display segment are highly
    specialized, with a limited number of major competitors located
    primarily in Asia. Applied is the leader in PECVD and color
    filter (CF) sputtering equipment markets and is a leader in the
    array test equipment market. Applied has recently entered the
    PVD market.


 


    Products and services within the Adjacent Technologies segment
    compete in diverse markets, including solar, flexible
    electronics and energy-efficient glass. Applied has recently
    entered these markets, which have established competitors. In
    solar, Applied offers products utilizing two distinct
    technologies, wafer-based and thin film, and is focused on the
    emerging thin film area. Flexible electronics equipment competes
    in a relatively fragmented market. Applied’s glass coating
    equipment has one major competitor.


 



    Patents
    and Licenses


 


    Management believes that Applied’s competitive position is
    significantly dependent upon its skills in research,
    development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing, and not
    just on its patent position. However, protection of
    Applied’s technological assets by obtaining and enforcing
    intellectual property rights, including patents, is important.
    Therefore, Applied’s practice is to file patent
    applications in the United States and other countries for
    inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has a
    substantial number of patents in the United States and other
    countries, and additional applications are pending for new
    developments. Although Applied does not consider its business
    materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied
    and the products made and sold under its patents, taken as a
    whole, are a significant element of Applied’s business. In
    addition to patents, Applied also possesses other intellectual
    property, including trademarks, knowhow, trade secrets and
    copyrights.


 


    Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements
    with other companies when management determines that it is in
    its best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under
    existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of
    its products, of certain patented technologies that are licensed
    to Applied for the life of the



    
    9



Table of Contents




    patents. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted
    to third parties. Royalties received from and paid to third
    parties have not been and are not expected to be material in
    relation to Applied’s consolidated results of operations.


 


    In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives
    and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In
    dealing with such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful
    for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights.
    However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights
    will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms.
    If Applied is not able to resolve or settle claims, obtain
    necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms
    and/or
    successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    Two of Applied’s locations have been designated as
    environmental cleanup sites. In 1987, the United States
    Environmental Protection Agency designated one of the locations,
    in Santa Clara, California, as a Superfund site and named
    Applied as a “Responsible Party.” Cleanup activities
    at this site began in 1984 and were substantially completed in
    February 2002. The California Regional Water Quality Control
    Board designated Applied as a “Discharger” with
    respect to another site in Sunnyvale, California. Applied was
    named a Discharger upon its acquisition of the property in 1997
    solely due to its status as property owner. The prior owners of
    the site
    and/or
    operators who caused the contamination are responsible for
    performing cleanup and monitoring activities. In addition,
    Applied has become aware of soil and groundwater contamination
    at levels exceeding regulatory requirements at its facility in
    Narita, Japan, which it believes was caused by a former owner or
    operator of the property. Applied is continuing its
    investigation of the contamination and is working with local
    authorities to determine what further action may be required.


 


    Applied maintains a number of environmental, health and safety
    programs that are primarily preventive in nature. As part of
    these programs, Applied regularly monitors ongoing compliance
    and periodically conducts investigations of possible
    contamination.


 


    Compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating
    discharge of materials into the environment, remedial agreements
    and other actions relating to the environment have not had, and
    are not expected to have, a material effect on Applied’s
    capital expenditures, competitive position, financial condition
    or results of operations.


 


    The most recent report on Applied’s environmental, health
    and safety activities can be found on the Company’s website
    at
    http://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/environment.html.
    This report is updated periodically. This website address is
    intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the
    information contained on Applied’s website is part of this
    report or is incorporated by reference herein.


 



    Employees


 


    At October 29, 2006, Applied employed 14,072 regular
    employees and 1,033 temporary employees. In the high-technology
    industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense.
    Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent
    upon its continued ability to attract, retain and motivate
    qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will
    be able to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient
    number of qualified employees.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    The following table and notes set forth information about
    Applied’s executive officers:


 




     	
     	
     	




    Name of Individual



 



    Position




 





    James C. Morgan(1)
    



 


    Chairman of the Board of Directors
    





    Michael R. Splinter(2)
    



 


    President, Chief Executive Officer
    and Director
    





    Franz Janker(3)
    



 


    Executive Vice President, Sales
    and Marketing
    





    George S. Davis(4)
    



 


    Senior Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer
    





    Manfred Kerschbaum(5)
    



 


    Senior Vice President, General
    Manager Applied Global Services
    





    Farhad Moghadam(6)
    



 


    Senior Vice President, General
    Manager Thin Films Product Business Group and Foundation
    Engineering
    





    Mark R. Pinto(7)
    



 


    Senior Vice President, Chief
    Technology Officer and General Manager New Business and New
    Products Group
    





    Thomas St. Dennis(8)
    



 


    Senior Vice President, General
    Manager Etch, Cleans, Front End and Implant Product Business
    Groups
    





    Joseph J. Sweeney(9)
    



 


    Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Corporate Secretary
    





    Nancy H. Handel(10)
    



 


    Senior Vice President, Finance
    





    Gilad Almogy(11)
    



 


    Group Vice President, General
    Manager Process Diagnostics and Control Product Business Group
    





    Ron Kifer(12)
    



 


    Group Vice President, Chief
    Information Officer, Global Information Services
    





    Yvonne Weatherford(13)
    



 


    Corporate Vice President,
    Corporate Controller
    








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Mr. Morgan, age 68, has been Chairman of the Board of
    Directors of Applied since 1987. Mr. Morgan served as
    Applied’s Chief Executive Officer from February 1977 to
    April 2003, and as Applied’s President from 1976 to 1987.


 


    
    (2) 
    
    
    Mr. Splinter, age 56, serves as President, Chief
    Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of
    Applied. Prior to joining Applied in April 2003,
    Mr. Splinter worked for nearly 20 years at Intel
    Corporation (Intel). Most recently he was Executive Vice
    President and Director of the Sales and Marketing Group at
    Intel, responsible for sales and operations worldwide.
    Mr. Splinter previously held various executive positions at
    Intel, including Executive Vice President and General Manager of
    the Technology and Manufacturing Group.


 


    
    (3) 
    
    
    Mr. Janker, age 57, has been the head of Sales and
    Marketing since May 2003. Beginning in May 2003, he was Senior
    Vice President, Sales and Marketing, and in December 2004 he was
    promoted to Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing. He
    served as Senior Vice President, Global Operations and Corporate
    Marketing beginning in December of 2002. From December 1998 to
    2002, he served as Group Vice President, Corporate Marketing and
    Business Management. From 1982 to 1998, Mr. Janker served
    in a variety of sales and marketing management positions with
    Applied in the United States and Europe.


 


    
    (4) 
    
    
    Mr. Davis, age 49, was promoted to Senior Vice President,
    Chief Financial Officer in December 2006. Mr. Davis
    was appointed Group Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
    effective November 1, 2006. Previously, he had been Group
    Vice President, General Manager Corporate Business Development
    since February 2005. From November 1999 to February 2005,
    Mr. Davis served as Vice President and Corporate Treasurer,
    where he managed Applied’s worldwide treasury operations
    and was responsible for investments, tax, financial risk
    management, and trade and export matters. Mr. Davis joined
    Applied in 1999.


 


    
    (5) 
    
    
    Mr. Kerschbaum, age 52, has been Senior Vice
    President, General Manager Applied Global Services since January
    2005. He was Group Vice President, Global Operations from July
    2004 to January 2005 and from October 2002 to May 2003. From May
    2003 to July 2004, he was Group Vice President, Foundation 





    
    11



Table of Contents






    
    
    



    

    
    
    Engineering and Operations. From March 1997 to October 2002, he
    held various positions in Applied Materials North America, most
    recently as Group Vice President, General Manager Applied
    Materials North America. Mr. Kerschbaum has served in
    various other operations, customer service and engineering
    positions since joining Applied in 1983.


 


    
    (6) 
    
    
    Dr. Moghadam, age 52, has been Senior Vice President,
    General Manager Thin Films Product Business Group and Foundation
    Engineering since September 2004. He became Group Vice
    President, General Manager Dielectric Systems and Modules
    Product Business Group and Foundation Engineering and Operations
    in April 2004, after serving as Group Vice President, General
    Manager Dielectric Systems and Modules Product Business Group
    since December 2002. He was named Corporate Vice President of
    the Chemical Vapor Deposition Product Business Group in December
    1999. Dr. Moghadam earned his Ph.D in Materials Science and
    Engineering from Stanford University.


 


    
    (7) 
    
    
    Dr. Pinto, age 47, has served as Senior Vice
    President, Chief Technology Officer and General Manager New
    Business and New Products Group since joining Applied in January
    2004. Prior to his appointment, Dr. Pinto spent
    19 years with Bell Laboratories and the Lucent
    Microelectronics Group, which later became Agere Systems Inc.,
    most recently as Vice President of the Analog Products Division.
    Dr. Pinto holds a Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from
    Stanford University.


 


    
    (8) 
    
    
    Mr. St. Dennis, age 53, returned to Applied in
    September 2005 as Senior Vice President, General Manager Etch,
    Cleans, Front End and Implant Product Business Groups. He
    previously was with Applied from 1992 to 1999, most recently as
    Group Vice President, Planarization and Dielectric Deposition
    Product Business Group and before that as Corporate Vice
    President, Physical Vapor Deposition Product Business Group.
    From 2003 to 2005, Mr. St. Dennis was an Executive Vice
    President and member of the Office of the CEO of Novellus
    Systems, Inc. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer
    of Wind River Systems, Inc. from 1999 to 2003.


 


    
    (9) 
    
    
    Mr. Sweeney, age 58, has held the position of Senior
    Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of
    Applied since July 2005, with responsibility for global legal
    affairs, intellectual property and security. From April 2002 to
    July 2005, Mr. Sweeney was Group Vice President, Legal
    Affairs and Intellectual Property, and Corporate Secretary.
    Mr. Sweeney joined Applied in 1993.


 


    

    
    




    
    (10) 
    
    
    Ms. Handel, age 55, Senior Vice President, Finance,
    was Chief Financial Officer from October 2004 to November 2006.
    She was Group Vice President, Deputy Chief Financial Officer and
    Corporate Controller from 2000 to 2004. From 1994 to 2000,
    Ms. Handel had responsibility for Global Finance Operations
    in addition to serving as Treasurer. From 1986 to 1994,
    Ms. Handel served as Treasurer. Ms. Handel joined
    Applied in 1985. Ms. Handel has announced her intention to
    retire.


 


    
    (11) 
    
    
    Dr. Almogy, age 41, was appointed Group Vice
    President, General Manager Process Diagnostics and Control
    Product Business Group in July 2005. He was Corporate Vice
    President, General Manager of the group from April 2002 to July
    2005 and Vice President and Co-General Manager of the group from
    December 2000 to April 2002. He has held various other positions
    in the group since joining Applied in 1997 when Applied acquired
    Orbot Instruments, Ltd. Dr. Almogy holds a Ph.D in Applied
    Physics from the California Institute of Technology.


 


    
    (12) 
    
    
    Mr. Kifer, age 55, joined Applied in May 2006 as Group
    Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Global Information
    Services. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Kifer spent
    5 years with DHL Express in various executive management
    roles, most recently as the Senior Vice President and Chief
    Information Officer for North America, Asia Pacific and Emerging
    Markets.


 


    
    (13) 
    
    
    Ms. Weatherford, age 55, has served as Corporate Vice
    President, Corporate Controller since December 2004.
    Ms. Weatherford was Appointed Vice President, Business
    Operations Controller from December 2001 to December 2004 and
    Appointed Vice President, Financial Operations Controller from
    October 2000 to December 2001. She has held various other
    finance roles since joining Applied in 1990.




 



    Available
    Information


 


    Applied’s website is
    http://www.appliedmaterials.com. Applied makes available
    free of charge, on or through its website, its annual, quarterly
    and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as
    soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such
    reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. This website
    address is



    
    12



Table of Contents




    intended to be an inactive textual reference only and none of
    the information contained on Applied’s website is part of
    this report or is incorporated by reference herein.







 




    
    



    
    Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    The
    industries that Applied serves is volatile and
    unpredictable.


 


    As a supplier to the global semiconductor and
    semiconductor-related industries, Applied is subject to business
    cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be
    difficult to predict. The industries have historically been
    cyclical due to sudden changes in demand and manufacturing
    capacity, including capacity using the latest technology. The
    effect on Applied of these changes in demand, including
    end-customer demand, is occurring more rapidly, exacerbating the
    volatility of these cycles. These changes have affected the
    timing and amounts of customers’ purchases and investments
    in technology, and continue to affect Applied’s orders, net
    sales, gross margin, contributed profit and results of
    operations.


 


    Applied must effectively manage its resources and production
    capacity to meet changing demand. During periods of increasing
    demand for semiconductor and semiconductor-related manufacturing
    equipment, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity
    and inventory to meet customer demand and must be able to
    attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified
    individuals and effectively manage its supply chain. During
    periods of decreasing demand, Applied must be able to
    appropriately align its cost structure with prevailing market
    conditions, effectively motivate and retain key employees, and
    effectively manage its supply chain. If Applied is not able to
    timely and appropriately align its cost structure with business
    conditions
    and/or
    effectively manage its resources and production capacity,
    including its supply chain, during changes in demand,
    Applied’s business, financial condition or results of
    operations may be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the
    semiconductor and
    semiconductor-related
    industries.


 


    The global industries in which Applied operates are
    characterized by ongoing changes, including: (1) changes in
    customers’ capacity requirements, capacity utilization and
    capital spending, which depend in part on the demand for
    customers’ products and their inventory levels relative to
    demand; (2) the importance of reducing the cost of system
    ownership, due in part to the increasing significance of
    consumer electronics as a driver for semiconductor and display
    demand and the related focus on lower prices; (3) varying
    levels of business information technology spending;
    (4) increasingly complex technology requirements, including
    a significant rise in the number and importance of new materials
    and importance of expertise in chemical processes and device
    structure; (5) the growing types and varieties of
    semiconductors and expanding number of applications across
    multiple substrate sizes, resulting in customers’ divergent
    technical demands and different rates of spending on capital
    equipment; (6) customers’ varying adoption rates of
    new technology; (7) a rising percentage of business from
    customers in Asia and the emergence of customers, competitors
    and suppliers in new geographical regions; (8) demand for
    shorter cycle times for the development, manufacture and
    installation of manufacturing equipment; (9) the heightened
    importance to customers of system reliability and productivity,
    and the effect on demand for systems as a result of their
    increasing productivity, device yield and reliability;
    (10) differing rates of market growth for, and capital
    investments by, various semiconductor device makers, such as
    memory (including NAND flash and DRAM), logic, foundry, display
    and solar; (11) customers’ increasing use of
    partnerships, alliances, joint ventures and industry consortia,
    which has increased the influence of key integrated circuit
    manufacturers in technology decisions made by their global
    partners; (12) higher capital requirements for building and
    operating new semiconductor fabrication plants; (13) the
    increasing difficulty for customers to move from product design
    to volume manufacturing; (14) the challenge to
    semiconductor manufacturers of moving volume manufacturing from
    one technology node to the next smaller technology node and the
    resulting impact on the technology transition rate;
    (15) the increasing cost and reduced affordability of
    research and development due to many factors, including
    decreasing linewidths and the increasing number of materials,
    applications and process steps; (16) the industry growth
    rate; (17) the increasing importance of the availability of
    spare parts to assure maximum system uptime; (18) concern
    among United States governmental agencies regarding possible
    national commercial
    and/or
    security issues posed by the growing manufacturing business in
    Asia; and (19) the increasing importance of operating
    flexibility to enable different responses to different markets,
    customers and applications. The solar market, which Applied
    recently entered, is



    
    13



Table of Contents




    also characterized by ongoing changes in demand for PV products
    arising from, among other things, fluctuations in the cost of
    fossil fuels and electric power, availability of government
    subsidies, the performance and reliability of PV technology, and
    the success of other renewable energy sources. If Applied does
    not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing
    changes occurring in the semiconductor and semiconductor-related
    industries, its business, financial condition and results of
    operations could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    must adapt its business and product offerings to respond to
    competition and rapid technological changes.


 


    As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment, its
    future success depends on many factors, including the effective
    development, commercialization and customer acceptance of its
    nanomanufacturing technology equipment, service and related
    products. In addition, Applied must successfully execute its
    growth strategy, including enhancing market share in existing
    markets, expanding into related markets, and cultivating new
    markets and new business models, while constantly improving its
    operational performance. The development, introduction and
    support of a broadening set of products in more varied
    competitive environments have grown increasingly complex and
    expensive over time. Applied’s success is subject to many
    risks, including but not limited to its ability to timely,
    cost-effectively and successfully: (1) improve and develop
    new applications for existing products and increase market share
    in its existing markets; (2) develop, appropriately price,
    and achieve market acceptance of new products; (3) expand
    into or develop related and new markets for its
    nanomanufacturing technology; (4) anticipate and capitalize
    on opportunities in new markets, such as solar, and with new
    technologies; (5) supply a range of Applied and non-Applied
    products as part of its solar offerings; (6) appropriately
    allocate resources, including RD&E funding, among
    Applied’s products and between the development of new
    products and the improvement of existing products;
    (7) accurately forecast demand and meet production
    schedules for its products; (8) achieve cost efficiencies
    across product offerings; (9) adapt to technology changes
    in related markets, such as lithography; (10) develop,
    market and price similar products for use by customers in
    different applications
    and/or
    markets that may have varying technical requirements;
    (11) adapt to changes in value offered by companies in
    different parts of the supply chain; (12) qualify products
    for volume manufacturing with its customers; (13) implement
    changes in its design engineering methodology, including those
    that enable significant decreases in material costs and cycle
    time, greater commonality of platforms and types of parts used
    in different systems, and effective product life cycle
    management; (14) improve its manufacturing processes; and
    (15) deploy initiatives to transform Applied’s
    information technology systems and enhance business processes,
    including transitioning to a single-vendor enterprise resource
    planning (ERP) software system. Furthermore, new or improved
    products may involve higher costs and reduced efficiencies
    compared to Applied’s more established products and could
    adversely affect Applied’s gross margins. Also, entry into
    new markets entails additional challenges, including those
    arising from changes in Applied’s customer
    and/or
    supplier base. In addition, Applied must regularly reassess the
    size, capability and location of its global infrastructure and
    timely make appropriate changes in its real estate and
    facilities portfolio. If Applied does not successfully manage
    these challenges, its business, financial condition and results
    of operations could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to the risks of operating a global
    business.


 


    In fiscal 2006, more than 80 percent of Applied’s net
    sales were to customers in regions outside the United States.
    Certain of Applied’s RD&E and manufacturing facilities,
    as well as suppliers to Applied, are also located outside the
    United States. Managing Applied’s global operations
    presents challenges, including but not limited to, those arising
    from: (1) varying regional and geopolitical business
    conditions and demands; (2) global trade issues;
    (3) variations in protection of intellectual property and
    other legal rights in different countries; (4) fluctuating
    raw material and energy costs; (5) variations in the
    ability to develop relationships with suppliers and other local
    businesses; (6) changes in laws and regulations of the
    United States (including export restrictions) and other
    countries, as well as their interpretation and application;
    (7) fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange
    rates; (8) the need to provide sufficient levels of
    technical support in different locations; (9) political
    instability, natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or
    storms), pandemics, terrorism or acts of war where Applied has
    operations, suppliers or sales; (10) cultural differences;
    (11) special customer- or government-supported efforts to
    promote the development and growth of local competitors; and
    (12) shipping costs
    and/or
    delays. Many of these challenges are present in China, which is
    experiencing significant growth of both suppliers and
    prospective



    
    14



Table of Contents




    competitors to Applied, and which Applied believes presents a
    large potential market for its products and opportunity for
    growth over the long term. These challenges, as well as global
    uncertainties with respect to: (1) economic growth rates in
    various countries; (2) consumer confidence; (3) the
    sustainability, timing, rate and amount of demand for
    electronics products and integrated circuits; (4) capital
    and operational spending by semiconductor and display
    manufacturers; and (5) price trends for certain integrated
    circuit devices, may materially and adversely affect
    Applied’s business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated
    customer base.


 


    Applied’s customer base is and has historically been highly
    concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of
    manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to continue
    to account for, a substantial portion of Applied’s net
    sales. In addition, the mix and type of customers, and sales to
    any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to
    quarter and from year to year. Moreover, certain customers,
    particularly in emerging areas such as solar, may have capital
    resource constraints
    and/or a
    limited operating history. If customers do not place orders, or
    they delay or cancel orders, Applied may not be able to replace
    the business. As Applied’s products are configured to
    customer specifications, changing, rescheduling or canceling
    orders may result in significant non- recoverable costs. Major
    customers may also seek, and on occasion receive, pricing,
    payment, intellectual property-related or other commercial terms
    that are less favorable to Applied. In addition, certain
    customers have undergone significant ownership changes
    and/or
    formed strategic alliances or collaborative efforts, which may
    result in additional complexities in managing customer
    relationships and transactions. These factors could have a
    material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Manufacturing
    interruptions or delays could affect Applied’s ability to
    meet customer demand, while the failure to estimate customer
    demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete
    inventory.


 


    Applied’s business depends on its ability to supply
    equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly
    changing requirements of its customers, which depends in part on
    the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies
    (collectively, parts) from suppliers. Some key parts may be
    subject to long lead-times
    and/or
    obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of
    suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by
    suppliers in developing regions, including China. In addition,
    Applied has implemented several key operational initiatives
    intended to improve manufacturing efficiency, including
    integrate-to-order,
    module-final-test and
    merge-in-transit
    programs. Applied has also begun a multi-year, company-wide
    program to transform certain business processes that includes
    transitioning to a single-vendor enterprise resource planning
    (ERP) software system to perform various functions, such as
    order management and manufacturing control. Significant
    interruptions of manufacturing operations or the delivery of
    services as a result of (1) the failure or inability of
    suppliers to timely deliver quality parts; (2) volatility
    in the availability and cost of materials; (3) difficulties
    or delays in obtaining required export approvals;
    (4) information technology or infrastructure failures;
    (5) difficulties and costs related to planning or effecting
    business process changes and implementing a new ERP system;
    (6) natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or
    storms); or (7) other causes (such as regional economic
    downturns, pandemics, political instability, terrorism or acts
    of war), could result in delayed deliveries, manufacturing
    inefficiencies, increased costs or order cancellations.
    Moreover, if actual demand for Applied’s products is
    different than expected, Applied may purchase more/fewer parts
    than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or
    expediting delivery of parts. Any or all of these factors could
    materially and adversely affect Applied’s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    The
    failure to successfully implement and conduct offshoring and
    outsourcing activities could adversely affect results of
    operations.


 


    To better align costs with market conditions, increase its
    presence in growing markets, and enhance productivity and
    operational efficiency, Applied conducts engineering, software
    development and other operations in regions outside the United
    States, particularly India and China, and outsources certain
    functions to third parties, including companies in the United
    States, India, China and other countries. Outsourced functions
    include engineering, manufacturing, customer support, software
    development and administrative activities. The expanding role of
    third party providers has required changes to Applied’s
    existing operations and the adoption of new



    
    15



Table of Contents




    procedures and processes for retaining and managing these
    providers in order to protect its intellectual property. If
    Applied does not effectively develop and implement its
    offshoring and outsourcing strategies, if required export and
    other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, or if
    Applied’s third party providers do not perform as
    anticipated, Applied may not realize productivity improvements
    or cost efficiencies and may experience operational
    difficulties, increased costs, manufacturing interruptions or
    delays, loss of its intellectual property rights, quality
    issues, increased product
    time-to-market
    and/or
    inefficient allocation of human resources, any or all of which
    could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and strategic
    investments.


 


    Applied has made, and in the future intends to make,
    acquisitions of, or investments in, companies, technologies or
    products in existing, related or new markets for Applied.
    Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited
    to: (1) diversion of management’s attention from other
    operational matters; (2) inability to complete acquisitions
    as anticipated or at all; (3) inability to realize
    anticipated benefits; (4) failure to commercialize
    purchased technologies; (5) inability to capitalize on
    characteristics of new markets that may be significantly
    different from Applied’s existing markets;
    (6) inability to obtain and protect intellectual property
    rights in key technologies; (7) ineffectiveness of an
    acquired company’s internal controls; (8) impairment
    of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological
    advancements or
    worse-than-expected
    performance of the acquired company or its product offerings;
    (9) unknown, underestimated
    and/or
    undisclosed commitments or liabilities; (10) excess or
    underutilized facilities; and (11) ineffective integration
    of operations, technologies, products or employees of the
    acquired companies. Applied also makes strategic investments in
    other companies, including companies formed as joint ventures,
    which may decline in value
    and/or not
    meet desired objectives. The success of these investments
    depends on various factors over which Applied may have limited
    or no control and, particularly with respect to joint ventures,
    requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic
    partners. Mergers and acquisitions and strategic investments are
    inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to
    effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely
    affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    The
    ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital
    to Applied’s success.


 


    Applied’s success and competitiveness depend in large part
    on its ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees.
    Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors,
    including fluctuations in global economic and industry
    conditions, changes in Applied’s management or leadership,
    competitors’ hiring practices, and the effectiveness of
    Applied’s compensation programs, including its equity-based
    programs. Applied regularly evaluates its overall compensation
    program and makes adjustments, as appropriate, to enhance its
    competitiveness, such as instituting broad-based grants of
    restricted stock units in fiscal 2006. If Applied does not
    successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees,
    Applied’s ability to capitalize on its opportunities and
    its operating results may be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Changes
    in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect
    results.


 


    As a global company, Applied is subject to taxation in the
    United States and various other countries. Significant judgment
    is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities.
    Applied’s future annual and quarterly tax rates could be
    affected by numerous factors, including changes in the
    (1) applicable tax laws; (2) composition of earnings
    in countries with differing tax rates; or (3) valuation of
    Applied’s deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition,
    Applied is subject to regular examination of its income tax
    returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax
    authorities. Applied regularly assesses the likelihood of
    favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these
    examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for
    income taxes. Although Applied believes its tax estimates are
    reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final
    determination will not be materially different from the
    treatment reflected in Applied’s historical income tax
    provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely
    affect Applied’s results of operations.



    
    16



Table of Contents





    Applied
    is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or
    claims and protection of intellectual property
    rights.


 


    Applied from time to time is, and in the future may be, involved
    in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement,
    intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental
    regulations, securities, contracts, product performance, product
    liability, unfair competition, employment and other matters. In
    addition, Applied on occasion receives notification from
    customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or
    other obligations related to claims made against customers by
    third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with
    or without merit, may be time-consuming and expensive to
    prosecute or defend and also divert management’s attention
    and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome
    of current or future legal proceedings or claims. Applied
    previously entered into a mutual
    covenant-not-to-sue
    arrangement with one of its competitors to decrease the risk of
    patent infringement lawsuits in the future. There can be no
    assurance that the intended results of this arrangement will be
    achieved or that Applied will be able to adequately protect its
    intellectual property rights with the restrictions associated
    with such a covenant. In addition, Applied’s success
    depends in significant part on the protection of its
    intellectual property and other rights. Infringement of
    Applied’s rights by a third party, such as the unauthorized
    manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts, could result in
    uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied.
    Applied’s intellectual property rights may not provide
    significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented,
    invalidated, rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of
    technological change, or if Applied does not adequately assert
    these rights. Furthermore, the laws and practices of other
    countries, including China, Taiwan and Korea, permit the
    protection and enforcement of Applied’s rights to varying
    extents, which may not be sufficient to protect Applied’s
    rights. If Applied is not able to obtain or enforce intellectual
    property rights, resolve or settle claims, obtain necessary
    licenses on commercially reasonable terms,
    and/or
    successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental and
    safety regulations.


 


    Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in
    connection with its global business operations, including but
    not limited to regulations related to the development,
    manufacture and use of its products; recycling and disposal of
    materials used in its products; the operation of its facilities;
    and the use of its real property. Failure or inability to comply
    with existing or future environmental and safety regulations
    could result in significant remediation liabilities, the
    imposition of fines
    and/or the
    suspension or termination of development, manufacture, sale or
    use of certain of its products,
    and/or may
    affect the operation of its facilities, use or value of its real
    property, each of which could have a material adverse effect on
    Applied’s business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory
    environment.


 


    Applied is subject to various risks related to: (1) new,
    different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and
    regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies
    and/or
    regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates;
    (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional
    regulatory agencies related to international trade; and
    (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and
    regulations. If Applied is found by a court or regulatory agency
    not to be in compliance with applicable laws, rules or
    regulations, Applied’s business, financial condition and
    results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is subject to internal control evaluations and attestation
    requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act.


 


    Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
    Applied must include in its annual report on
    Form 10-K
    a report of management on the effectiveness of Applied’s
    internal control over financial reporting and an attestation by
    Applied’s independent registered public accounting firm to
    the adequacy of management’s assessment of Applied’s
    internal control. Ongoing compliance with these requirements is
    complex, costly and time-consuming. If (1) Applied fails to
    maintain effective internal control over financial reporting;
    (2) Applied’s management does not timely assess the
    adequacy of such internal control; or (3) Applied’s
    independent registered



    
    17



Table of Contents




    public accounting firm does not timely attest to the evaluation,
    Applied could be subject to regulatory sanctions and the
    public’s perception of Applied may decline.







 




    
    



    
    Item 1B