Item 1A, which is incorporated
    herein by reference.


 



    Silicon
    Segment


 


    Applied’s Silicon Systems Group (SSG), reported under its
    Silicon segment, develops, manufactures and sells a wide range
    of manufacturing equipment used to fabricate semiconductor
    chips, also referred to as integrated circuits (ICs). Most chips
    are built on a silicon wafer base and include a variety of
    circuit components, such as transistors and other devices, that
    are connected by multiple layers of wiring (interconnects).
    Applied offers systems that perform most of the primary
    processes used in chip fabrication including atomic layer
    deposition (ALD), chemical vapor deposition (CVD), physical
    vapor deposition (PVD), etch, rapid thermal processing (RTP),
    chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) and wafer metrology and
    inspection, as well as systems that etch, measure and inspect
    circuit patterns on masks used in the photolithography process.
    Applied’s semiconductor manufacturing systems are used by
    both integrated device manufacturers and foundries to build
    memory, logic and other types of chips.


 


    To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors and other circuit
    components are first created on the surface of the wafer by
    performing a series of processes to deposit and selectively
    remove portions of successive film layers. Similar processes are
    then used to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer.
    As the density of the circuit components increases to enable
    greater computing capability in the same or smaller physical
    area, the complexity of building the chip also increases,
    necessitating more process steps to form smaller structures and
    more intricate wiring schemes. A typical, simplified process
    sequence for building the wiring or interconnect portion of a
    chip involves initially depositing a dielectric film layer onto
    the base layer of circuit components using a CVD system. An etch
    system is then used to create openings and patterns in the
    dielectric layer. To form the metal interconnects, these
    openings and patterns are subsequently filled with conducting
    material using PVD
    and/or
    electroplating technologies. A CMP step then polishes the wafer
    to achieve a flat surface. Additional deposition, etch and CMP
    steps are then performed to build up the layers needed to
    complete the interconnection of the circuit elements. Advanced
    chip designs require more than 500 steps involving these and
    other processes to complete the manufacturing cycle.


 


    While some device manufacturers are still using aluminum as the
    main conducting material for building interconnect structures,
    most have transitioned to copper. Copper has lower resistance
    than aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller area.
    Applied is the leading supplier of systems for manufacturing
    copper-based chips, including equipment for depositing, etching
    and planarizing copper interconnect layers. Complementing the
    transition to copper to improve chip speed is the use of low
    dielectric constant (low k) films to replace silicon





    
    1



Table of Contents





    dioxide material as the insulator between the copper wiring
    structures. Applied also leads the industry in providing systems
    for depositing low k dielectric films.


 


    The transistor is another key area of the chip where
    semiconductor manufacturers are improving their device designs
    to enhance speed. Applied has the industry’s largest
    portfolio of technically advanced products for building smaller
    and faster transistors. One method of enhancing chip performance
    is strain engineering, a technique that stretches or compresses
    the space between atoms, allowing electrical current to flow
    more quickly. Multiple strain films are typically used in
    advanced devices since they have an additive effect on
    increasing transistor speed. Applied has a comprehensive
    portfolio of systems to enable these applications using CVD and
    epitaxial deposition technologies.


 


    Most chips currently are fabricated using 65 nanometer (nm) and
    larger linewidth dimensions, although Applied is also working
    with customers on new technology for advanced nodes such as 45nm
    and below. Major chipmakers have announced that they will be
    integrating new high dielectric constant (high-k) and metal
    materials and processes in their transistor gate structures to
    increase chip performance and reduce power consumption. Applied
    has a comprehensive portfolio of fully characterized processes
    for building these high-k/metal gates. These solutions include
    an integrated dielectric gate stack tool that combines four
    critical processes in a single system, a portfolio of
    metallization technologies using ALD and PVD, and an innovative
    high temperature etch system.


 


    Another emerging area for Applied’s technology is
    three-dimensional (3D) ICs in which chips are vertically stacked
    to deliver higher performance and functionality in a smaller
    area. The individual chips are electrically connected using deep
    holes called through-silicon vias (TSVs). Applied has the
    production-proven systems and processes required for the
    majority of TSV manufacturing steps, including mask, etch, film
    deposition and CMP systems. Applied is leading efforts to enable
    the adoption of TSV technology, working with consortiums and
    other equipment suppliers to lower the cost to customers for
    implementing TSV technology.


 


    Most of Applied’s semiconductor equipment products are
    single-wafer systems with multiple process chambers attached to
    a base platform. This enables each wafer to be processed
    separately in its own environment, allowing precise process
    control, while the system’s multiple chambers enable
    simultaneous, high productivity manufacturing. Applied sells
    most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems on four basic
    platforms: the
    Centura®,

    the
    Endura®,

    the
    Producer®

    and the
    Vantage®.

    These platforms support ALD, CVD, PVD, etch and RTP technologies.


 


    Over time, the semiconductor industry has migrated to
    increasingly larger wafers to build chips. The predominant or
    common wafer size used today for volume production of advanced
    chips is 300 millimeter (mm), or
    12-inch,
    wafers. Applied offers a comprehensive range of 300mm systems.
    Applied also offers earlier-generation 200mm systems, as well as
    products and services to support all of its systems, which are
    reported under its Applied Global Services segment.


 


    The following summarizes Applied’s portfolio of products
    and their associated process technology areas reported under its
    Silicon segment.


 



    Deposition


 


    Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During
    deposition, layers of dielectric (an insulator), barrier, or
    electrically conductive (typically metal) films are deposited or
    grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to
    perform three types of deposition: ALD, CVD and PVD. In
    addition, Applied’s RTP systems can be used to perform
    certain types of dielectric deposition.


 



    Atomic
    Layer Deposition


 


    ALD is an advanced technology in which atoms are deposited one
    layer at a time to build chip structures. This technology
    enables customers to fabricate thin films of either conducting
    or insulating material with uniform coverage in
    sub-nanometer
    sized structures. Applied offers ALD chambers for depositing
    tungsten and
    high-k/metal
    gate films. The Applied Centura
    iSprinttm

    Tungsten system (iSprint) combines an ALD chamber, which
    deposits a tungsten nucleation film, with a CVD tungsten bulk
    fill process in one system. The iSprint is used to form contact
    structures that connect the transistors to the wiring areas of
    the chip. Applied’s high-k/metal gate





    
    2



Table of Contents





    ALD process is part of the Centura Advanced Gate Stack system,
    which enables a single integrated solution for building
    high-k/metal gate structures.


 



    Chemical
    Vapor Deposition


 


    CVD is used to deposit dielectric and metal films on a wafer.
    During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material
    to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film
    of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be silicon oxide,
    single-crystal epitaxial silicon, amorphous silicon, silicon
    nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings, low k dielectric
    (for highly efficient insulating materials), aluminum, titanium,
    titanium nitride, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or
    silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and
    technologies:


 


    The Applied Producer CVD platform — This
    high-throughput platform features
    Twin-Chamber®

    modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up
    to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer
    platform, giving it a simultaneous processing capacity of six
    wafers. Many dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this
    platform. The highest productivity model of this system is the
    Applied Producer GT, which has achieved rapid customer
    acceptance due to its fast wafer handling performance and
    compact design.


 


    Low k Dielectric Films — Low k dielectric
    materials are used in copper-based chip designs to further
    improve interconnect speed. Using conventional CVD equipment,
    the Applied Producer Black
    Diamond®

    family of low k systems provides customers with a proven,
    cost-effective way to integrate a variety of low k films into
    advanced interconnect structures. To further increase the
    performance of the complete multi-layer dielectric structure,
    Applied offers a line of
    BLOKtm

    (barrier low k) films deposited with the Producer system.


 


    Lithography-Enabling Solutions — Applied offers
    several technologies on the Producer system to help chipmakers
    extend their current 193nm lithography tools, including a line
    of Applied
    APF®

    (advanced patterning film) films and Applied
    DARC®

    (dielectric anti-reflective coating) films. Together, they
    provide a film stack with the precise dimensional control and
    compatibility needed to cost-effectively pattern nano-scale
    features without additional integration complexity.


 


    Gap Fill Films — There are many steps during
    the chipmaking process in which very small and deep, or high
    aspect ratio (HAR), structures must be filled void-free with a
    dielectric film. Many of these applications include the
    deposition of silicon oxides in substrate isolation structures,
    contacts and interconnects. The Applied Centura Ultima
    HDP-CVD®

    (high-density plasma CVD) system has been an industry
    workhorse, providing multi-generational gap-fill capability for
    both logic and memory devices. The Applied Producer HARP (high
    aspect ratio process) provides customers with device scaling
    capability to 32nm and below using
    sub-atmospheric
    CVD (SACVD) technology enabling the seamless, void-free fill of
    tightly packed HAR structures.


 


    Strain Engineering Solutions — The Applied
    Producer
    HARPtm

    system also plays a key role in enhancing transistor
    performance, enabling chipmakers to boost chip speed by
    depositing strain-inducing dielectric films. Offering the
    industry’s first integrated stress nitride deposition and
    ultraviolet (UV) cure solution, the Applied Producer Celera CVD
    delivers benchmark levels of high-stress tensile silicon nitride
    films. The Company also offers the Applied Centura SiNgenPlus
    low pressure CVD system for low temperature silicon nitride
    films. Used together, and in conjunction with silicon germanium
    (SiGe) films using Applied’s epitaxial deposition
    technologies, these systems can provide additive strain
    engineering benefits.


 


    Epitaxial Deposition — Epitaxial silicon
    (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform
    crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base
    for the device circuitry. Epi technology is used in an
    increasing number of integrated circuit devices in both the
    wafer substrate and transistor areas of a chip to enhance speed.
    The Applied Centura Epi system integrates pre- and post-epi
    processes on the same system to improve film quality and reduce
    production costs. This system is also used for SiGe epi
    technology, which reduces power usage and increases speed in
    certain types of advanced chips. For emerging transistor
    designs, the Applied Centura RP Epi system offers selective epi
    processes to enable faster transistor switching through strain
    engineering techniques.




    
    3



Table of Contents





    Polysilicon Deposition — Polysilicon is a type
    of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure
    within the integrated circuit device. The Applied Centura
    Polygentm

    LPCVD system is a single-wafer, multi-chamber product that
    deposits thin polysilicon films at high temperatures to create
    transistor gate structures. To address the challenging
    requirements of shrinking gate dimensions, the Applied Centura
    DPN Gate Stack system integrates chambers for decoupled plasma
    nitridation (DPN), RTP anneal and polysilicon deposition on one
    platform to enable superior film quality and material properties.


 


    Tungsten Deposition — Tungsten is used in the
    contact area of a chip that connects the transistors to the
    wiring circuitry. In aluminum-based devices, tungsten is also
    used in the structures that connect the multiple layers of
    aluminum wiring. Applied has two products for depositing
    tungsten: the Applied Centura
    Sprint®

    Tungsten CVD system for 90nm and below devices and the Applied
    Centura iSprint ALD/CVD system for more advanced applications.
    The latter product combines ALD technology and CVD chambers on
    the same platform.


 



    Physical
    Vapor Deposition


 


    PVD is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as
    argon, are accelerated toward a metal target. The metal atoms
    chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer.
    Applied leads the industry in PVD technology with its Applied
    Endura PVD system. This system offers a broad range of advanced
    deposition processes, including aluminum, aluminum alloys,
    cobalt, titanium/titanium nitride, tantalum/tantalum nitride,
    tungsten/tungsten nitride, nickel, vanadium and copper.


 


    The Applied Endura CuBS (copper barrier/seed) PVD system is
    widely used by customers for fabricating copper-based chips.
    Using PVD technology, the system deposits a tantalum-based
    barrier film that prevents copper material from entering other
    areas of the device and then a copper seed layer that primes the
    structure for the subsequent deposition of bulk copper. This
    system also features Activ Pre-clean technology to provide clean
    film interfaces while preserving the k-value integrity of the
    structure. In 2009, the Company introduced the Applied Endura
    CuBS RFX PVD system, extending its cost-effective CuBS
    technology to the 22nm node. Applied’s Endura system has
    also been used for many years in back-end applications to
    deposit metal layers before final bump or wire bonding packaging
    steps are performed. In 2009, the Company introduced a new
    cost-efficient platform specifically designed for under-bump
    metallization (UBM) and other back-end processes. The Applied
    Charger UBM PVD system’s new linear architecture offers
    reliable performance and very high productivity at a low
    cost-per-wafer.


 



    Etch


 


    Etching is used many times throughout the integrated circuit
    manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the
    surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated
    with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist. A
    photolithography process then projects the circuit pattern onto
    the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by
    the photoresist pattern. Applied offers a wide range of systems
    for etching dielectric, metal and silicon films to meet the
    requirements of
    sub-100nm
    processing.


 


    For dielectric applications, the Applied Centura
    eMax®

    system etches a broad range of dielectric films in the contact
    and interconnect regions of the chip. Applied’s Producer
    Etch system utilizes the Company’s Twin-Chamber Producer
    platform to target cost-sensitive dielectric etch applications
    in 90nm and below design geometries. To address advanced low k
    etch applications, the Applied Centura
    Enabler®

    Etch system performs etch, strip and clean steps in a single
    chamber. The Enabler’s
    all-in-one
    capability streamlines the process flow for advanced chip
    designs and significantly reduces operating costs. The Applied
    Centura Carina system uses innovative, high-temperature
    technology to deliver the etch capability essential for scaling
    logic and memory devices with high-k/metal gates at 45nm and
    below.


 


    The Applied Centura
    AdvantEdgetm

    Silicon Etch system offers chipmakers high precision gate
    etching for advanced-generation devices. The Applied Centura
    Mariana Trench Etch system provides customers with the
    capability to scale memory devices by etching 80:1 aspect ratio
    structures. In 2009, the Company introduced the Applied Centura
    Silvia system, specifically designed for etching small, deep
    holes for TSV applications in 3D-ICs. For etching metals, the
    Applied Opus AdvantEdge Metal Etch uses an optimized 5-chamber
    platform configuration





    
    4



Table of Contents





    that enables customers to extend aluminum interconnect
    technology and productivity to
    sub-70nm
    dimensions for flash and DRAM memory applications.


 



    Rapid
    Thermal Processing


 


    RTP is a process in which a wafer is subjected to rapid bursts
    of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to
    more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. A rapid
    thermal process is used mainly for annealing, which modifies the
    properties, of deposited films. The Applied Centura
    Radiance®Plus

    and Applied Vantage
    RadOxtm

    RTP systems feature advanced RTP technology with differing
    platform designs. While the multi-chamber Centura platform
    offers exceptional process flexibility, the streamlined
    two-chamber Vantage platform is designed for dedicated
    high-volume manufacturing. These single-wafer RTP systems are
    also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films,
    deposition steps that traditional large batch furnaces can no
    longer achieve with the necessary precision and control. With
    its proprietary radical-based oxidation process, the Applied
    Vantage RadOx system deposits high-performance transistor gate
    oxides with high productivity and low operating cost for flash
    memory applications.


 



    Chemical
    Mechanical Planarization


 


    The CMP process removes material from a wafer to create a flat
    (planarized) surface. This process allows subsequent
    photolithography patterning steps to occur with greater accuracy
    and enables film layers to build with minimal height variations.
    Applied has led the industry with its 300mm Applied
    Reflexion®

    LK system, with features such as integrated cleaning, film
    measurement and process control capabilities.


 



    Metrology
    and Wafer Inspection


 


    Applied offers several products for measuring features and
    inspecting defects on the wafer during various stages of the
    fabrication process. These systems enable customers to
    characterize and control critical dimension (CD) and defect
    issues, especially at advanced generation technology nodes.


 



    Critical
    Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes
    (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs)


 


    Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to
    form images of microscopic features of a patterned wafer at
    extremely high magnification. Applied’s SEM products
    provide customers with full automation, along with the high
    accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring very small CDs.
    The Applied
    VeritySEM®

    Metrology system uses proprietary SEM imaging technology to
    enable precise control of the lithography and etching processes.
    The VeritySEM measures CDs at a precision of less than 3.2
    angstroms, a requirement for 32nm and below device production
    and incorporates automation and software advancements for
    significantly higher throughput. Applied’s OPC
    Checktm

    software for the VeritySEM system performs automated
    qualification of OPC-based (optical proximity correction) chip
    designs, significantly reducing mask (see Mask Making section
    below) verification time over conventional manual methods.


 


    DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (such as particles,
    scratches or residues) that are first located by a defect
    detection system and then classify the defects to identify their
    source. The high-throughput, fully automatic Applied
    SEMVisiontm

    Defect Analysis products enable customers to use this technology
    as an integral part of their production lines to analyze defects
    as small as 30nm with industry-leading throughput. The Applied
    SEMVision FIB integrates advanced defect review SEM capability
    with automated focused ion beam (FIB) technology in one system.
    The FIB provides a cross-sectional view of the defects reviewed
    by the SEM, enabling chipmakers to analyze the defects in
    minutes as part of their in-line review process.


 



    Wafer
    Inspection


 


    Using laser-based technology, defects can be detected on
    patterned wafers (wafers with printed circuit images) as they
    move between processing steps. Defects include particles, open
    circuit lines, and shorts between lines. Incorporating key
    advances in imaging technology, the Applied
    ComPlustm

    Inspection system, for darkfield applications, detects defects
    in devices with design rules of 65nm and below with the high
    speed required for customers’ volume production lines. The
    Applied
    UVision®

    Inspection system is the industry’s first laser-based,





    
    5



Table of Contents





    three dimensional brightfield tool. Utilizing multi-beam, deep
    ultraviolet (DUV) laser illumination and high efficiency
    detectors, the UVision system uncovers previously undetectable
    defects on the wafer, enabling customers to rapidly resolve
    defect issues and achieve greater chip yields.


 



    Mask
    Making


 


    Masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer
    microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since an imperfection
    in a mask may be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be
    virtually defect-free. Applied provides systems for etching,
    cleaning and inspecting masks.


 


    The Applied Tetra
    IIItm

    Advanced Reticle Etch system, an advanced etch tool for
    fabricating leading-edge masks, is used by virtually every
    advanced mask maker in the world for 45nm photomask development
    and production. The groundbreaking Applied
    Aera2tm

    Mask Inspection system allows customers to meet the most
    critical defect detection challenges of advanced masks. Using
    sophisticated aerial imaging technology, the Aera2 is the first
    mask inspection system that allows users to immediately see how
    the pattern on the mask will appear on the wafer, revealing only
    the defects most likely to print and significantly reducing
    inspection time.


 



    Applied
    Global Services Segment


 


    The Applied Global Services segment encompasses products and
    services designed to improve the performance and productivity,
    and reduce the environmental impact, of the fab operations of
    semiconductor, LCD and solar PV manufacturers. The in-depth
    expertise and best known methods of Applied’s extensive
    global support infrastructure enable Applied to continuously
    support customers’ production requirements. Trained
    customer engineers and process support engineers are deployed in
    more than a dozen countries. These engineers are usually located
    at or near customers’ fab sites and service over 31,000
    installed Applied systems, as well as non-Applied systems.
    Applied offers the following general types of services and
    products:


 


    Fab Services — Applied offers a portfolio of
    fab-wide operations services to maintain and optimize
    customers’ fabrication facilities. Applied Performance
    Services offers customers comprehensive equipment support with
    performance-based pricing and predictable costs to enable
    improved cost of ownership. Included in this program is
    Applied’s ExpertConnect remote diagnostic capability,
    providing expert support around the clock. The Company also
    offers Performance Services for its
    SunFabtm

    Thin Film Line for producing large-size solar PV panels. The
    first service product of its kind for the solar industry, the
    program enables customers to quickly ramp to volume production
    while optimizing the performance, cost and output of their
    SunFab lines.


 


    The Company also offers Performance Spares, which are spare
    parts manufactured to Applied’s strict technical
    specifications and quality standards. The Company’s Metron
    Chamber Performance Services unit provides precision cleaning,
    technology-enhanced coating and refurbishment on chamber process
    kits and components. The unit also has extensive analytical
    testing capabilities to validate and certify performance
    specifications.


 


    Mature Technology Services — Applied offers a
    wide range of products and services to extend the productive
    life of 200mm semiconductor fabs, including new and
    remanufactured 200mm equipment, system enhancements and fab
    transition services. Designed to maximize productivity and lower
    cost of ownership, these products also assist customers in
    implementing green manufacturing solutions. Applied’s 200mm
    systems are available in a broad range of production-proven
    technologies, including CVD, PVD, etch, implant, RTP, CMP,
    epitaxy, metrology and inspection tools.


 


    Automation Systems — Applied offers automated
    factory-level and tool-level control software systems for
    semiconductor, LCD and solar cell manufacturing facilities.
    These enterprise solutions include manufacturing execution
    systems (MES) to automate the production of wafers and LCD and
    solar substrates, advanced process control systems, and
    scheduling and materials handling control systems. Applied also
    offers computerized maintenance management systems, performance
    tracking, and modeling and simulation tools for improving asset
    utilization. Applied’s breakthrough E3 equipment
    engineering system solution, for example, uniquely integrates
    all critical equipment automation and process control
    components. In 2009, the Company introduced its Applied
    SmartMove system, enabling wireless wafer management in
    non-automated 200mm and 300mm fabs.




    
    6



Table of Contents





    Abatement Systems — Applied’s family of
    Metron abatement systems is a comprehensive line of
    environmental solutions for the semiconductor, solar and display
    industries. These systems include a wide range of
    point-of-use
    scrubbing tools such as wet, dry, thermal and integrated
    technologies for reliable, cost-effective abatement of exhaust
    gases. Applied’s Marathon Series, for example, offers smart
    abatement technology that specifically targets perfluorocarbon
    effluents from processing systems.


 



    Display
    Segment


 


    Applied’s AKT subsidiary, reported under the Display
    segment, designs, manufactures and sells equipment to fabricate
    thin film transistor LCDs for televisions, computer displays and
    other consumer-oriented electronic applications. While
    similarities exist between the technologies utilized in
    chipmaking and LCD fabrication, the most significant differences
    are in the size and composition of the substrate. Substrates
    used to manufacture LCD panels can be more than 70 times larger
    in area than 300mm wafers and are made of glass, while wafers
    are made of silicon. This technology for deposition on
    large-size substrates is also used in the Applied
    SunFabtm

    Thin Film Line.


 


    Applied supplies a wide range of systems that process and test
    different glass substrate sizes. For fabricating the transistor
    layer of these panels, the Company offers a line of
    plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) systems that use multi-chamber
    platform architecture to deposit dielectric and semiconducting
    films. The
    AKT-PiVottm

    55KV system employs high-productivity, cost-efficient PVD
    technology to deposit metal and transparent conductive oxide
    films on the substrate. For manufacturing the color filter of
    LCD panels, Applied offers the AKT-NEW
    ARISTOtm

    for transparent conductive oxide film deposition.


 


    To complement these systems, Applied also offers a line of
    electron beam test (EBT) systems for testing substrates during
    production for defective pixels and other imperfections.
    Featuring one of the industry’s fastest and most accurate
    pixel test technologies with the lowest operating cost, the EBT
    systems’ non-contact test technology enables the safe
    testing of high-value LCD TV panels without damaging or
    scratching the display.


 


    To meet growing consumer demand for larger, more cost-efficient
    LCD TVs, LCD manufacturers have moved to increasingly
    larger-sized substrates. Applied’s latest generation (Gen)
    10 systems can process substrates sized at approximately 2.85 x
    3.05 meters, with each substrate enabling the production of up
    to six
    65-inch LCD
    TV screens. These Gen-10 systems include the AKT-90K PECVD and
    the Gen-10 AKT-90K EBT products.


 



    Energy
    and Environmental Solutions Segment


 


    The Energy and Environmental Solutions segment includes
    manufacturing solutions for the generation and conservation of
    energy. Applied entered the solar PV market in 2006, announcing
    its objective to lower the overall cost per watt of solar
    electricity to parity with that of electricity generated by
    other sources such as the burning of fossil fuels. Applied
    offers manufacturing solutions for both wafer-based crystalline
    silicon (c-Si) and glass-based thin film applications to enable
    customers to increase the conversion efficiency and yields of
    solar PV devices.


 


    Applied’s extensive portfolio of solar PV cell fabrication
    technologies has made it the leading supplier of c-Si
    manufacturing systems worldwide. Key benefits of these systems
    are high-productivity, advanced ultra-thin wafer handling, and
    extensive automation, helping customers to lower the cost per
    watt. Applied offers a comprehensive line of automated
    metallization and test systems for c-Si cell manufacturing. In
    2009, the Company introduced its Baccini
    Esattotm

    Technology, a high precision, multi-step printing capability
    designed to increase the efficiency of c-Si solar cells. Applied
    also offers systems for slicing and squaring wafers from silicon
    ingots. In 2009, the Company introduced its Applied HCT
    MaxEdgetm

    wire saw, featuring the industry’s first dual-wire
    management system for slicing ultra-thin wafers. Applied also
    introduced the HCT Diamond
    Squarertm

    system with novel diamond wire technology that eliminates the
    need for abrasive slurry and significantly cuts electricity
    consumption.


 


    For thin film applications, Applied developed the Applied SunFab
    Thin Film Line, which is the world’s only integrated glass-
    in/panel-out production line for manufacturing thin film silicon
    solar modules using 5.7 square meter
    (m2)

    glass substrates. These ultra-large panels, which are
    approximately four times the size of thin film solar panels
    offered by others in the industry, are intended for large-scale
    applications such as solar farms, utilities and
    building-integrated solar PV system installations. Applied has
    entered into multiple contracts for its SunFab line with
    customers in Europe, Asia and Saudi Arabia. Several of these
    lines have passed final acceptance testing, and





    
    7



Table of Contents





    customers have begun volume manufacturing of SunFab modules.
    SunFab modules have met the stringent requirements of the
    International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), certifying that
    these modules will meet performance and safety specifications
    under challenging environmental conditions. In 2009, Applied
    announced its second-generation SunFab technology that enables
    customers to achieve a 22% reduction in materials cost.


 


    Products in this segment also include the
    ATONtm

    in-line deposition system, a large-area platform for
    high-quality deposition and high-throughput in both c-Si and
    thin film solar PV cell manufacturing, as well as processes,
    materials-handling technologies and fabrication services. Other
    products include
    roll-to-roll,
    vacuum web coating systems for high-performance deposition of a
    range of films on flexible substrates for functional, aesthetic
    or optical properties. In 2009, the Company shipped its new
    Applied Topmet 4450, the world’s largest and fastest
    roll-to-roll
    machine that deposits ultra-thin aluminum films for flexible
    packaging applications on 4.5m wide rolls of substrate material
    at 20 meters per second. Applied also offers large-area
    deposition equipment for the production of low-emissivity
    (low-E) and solar control architectural glass.


 



    Backlog


 


    Applied manufactures systems to meet demand represented by order
    backlog and customer commitments. Backlog consists of:
    (1) orders for which written authorizations have been
    accepted and assigned shipment dates are within the next
    12 months, or shipment has occurred but revenue has not
    been recognized; (2) contractual service revenue and
    maintenance fees to be earned within the next 12 months;
    and (3) orders for SunFab lines that are anticipated to be
    recognized as revenue within the next 12 months.


 


    Applied’s backlog decreased from $4.8 billion at
    October 26, 2008 to $2.7 billion at October 25,
    2009. Applied’s backlog on any particular date is not
    necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding
    period. Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel
    orders prior to shipment, subject to possible cancellation
    penalties. Backlog adjustments were negative for fiscal 2009 and
    totaled $1.2 billion, consisting primarily of customer
    cancellations and financial debookings, reflecting the decline
    in demand for semiconductor equipment. Delays in delivery
    schedules
    and/or a
    reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a
    material adverse effect on Applied’s business and results
    of operations.


 



    Manufacturing,
    Raw Materials and Supplies


 


    Applied’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of
    procurement, assembly, test and integration of various
    proprietary and commercial parts, components and subassemblies
    (collectively, parts) that are used to manufacture systems.
    Products in the Silicon segment are manufactured in Austin,
    Texas and Rehovot, Israel. Remanufactured products in the
    Applied Global Services segment are produced primarily in
    Austin, Texas. Products in the Display segment are manufactured
    in Santa Clara, California; Alzenau, Germany; and Tainan,
    Taiwan. Products in the Energy and Environmental Solutions
    segment are manufactured primarily in Alzenau, Germany;
    Cheseaux, Switzerland; Treviso, Italy; and Santa Clara,
    California. Manufacturing requires raw materials, including a
    wide variety of mechanical and electrical components, to be
    manufactured to Applied’s specifications. Applied uses
    numerous companies, including contract manufacturers, to supply
    parts for the manufacture and support of its products. Although
    Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts are
    available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always
    possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be obtained from only
    a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied seeks
    to reduce costs and to lower the risks of production and service
    interruptions, as well as shortages of key parts, by:
    (1) selecting and qualifying alternate suppliers for key
    parts; (2) monitoring the financial condition of key
    suppliers; (3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key
    parts; (4) qualifying new parts on a timely basis; and
    (5) locating certain manufacturing operations in areas that
    are closer to suppliers and customers.


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering


 


    Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued
    development of new products. Applied’s significant
    investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E)
    has generally enabled it to deliver new products and
    technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus
    allowing customers to incorporate these products into their
    manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology
    selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global





    
    8



Table of Contents





    customers to design systems and processes that meet their
    planned technical and production requirements. Product
    development and engineering organizations are located primarily
    in the United States, as well as in Europe, Israel and China. In
    addition, Applied outsources certain RD&E activities, some
    of which are performed outside the United States. Process
    support and customer demonstration laboratories are located in
    the United States, China, Europe and Israel.


 


    Applied’s investments in RD&E for product development
    and engineering programs to create or improve products and
    technologies over the last three years were as follows:
    $934 million (19 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2009,
    $1.1 billion (14 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2008
    and $1.1 billion (12 percent of net sales) in fiscal
    2007. Applied has spent an average of 14 percent of net
    sales in RD&E over the last five years. In addition to
    RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains
    ongoing programs for automation control systems, materials
    research and environmental control that are applicable to its
    products. In fiscal 2009, Applied focused on developing systems
    for semiconductor customers’ new chip designs with 32nm and
    below geometries, including systems to enable faster transistors
    using strain engineering and high-k/metal gate technologies, as
    well as double patterning processes that allows customers to
    extend their existing 193nm lithography tools through additional
    technology generations. Applied also focused on developing
    technology for through-silicon vias, an emerging solution for
    interconnecting three dimensional chip stacks to provide better
    device performance, lower power consumption and the integration
    of heterogeneous devices. RD&E also included activities to
    develop products that enable lower-cost production of solar
    energy and other products to enable energy conservation.


 



    Marketing
    and Sales


 


    Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied
    markets and sells products worldwide through a direct sales
    force. Approximately 81 percent of Applied’s fiscal
    2009 net sales were to regions outside of the
    United States. Net sales to customers by region as a
    percentage of total net sales were: Taiwan 21 percent,
    North America (primarily the United States) 19 percent,
    Asia-Pacific (including China) 18 percent, Europe
    15 percent, Japan 14 percent, and Korea
    13 percent.


 


    General economic conditions impact Applied’s business and
    financial results. From time to time, the markets in which
    products are sold experience weak economic conditions that may
    negatively impact sales. Applied’s business is usually not
    seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical, based on capital
    equipment investment by major semiconductor, flat panel display,
    solar PV and other manufacturers. These expenditures depend on
    many factors, including: anticipated market demand and pricing
    for semiconductors, LCDs, solar cells and modules, architectural
    glass and other substrates; the development of new technologies;
    customers’ factory utilization; capital resources and
    financing; and global and regional economic conditions.


 


    Applied manages its business and reports financial results based
    on the segments described above, but does not allocate certain
    sales and marketing costs to the segments.


 


    Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and
    long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic
    regions is included in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. In fiscal 2009, Intel Corporation
    accounted for 12 percent of Applied’s net sales.
    Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. accounted for 10 percent of
    Applied’s net sales in fiscal 2009, 16 percent of net
    sales in fiscal 2008, and 12 percent of net sales in fiscal
    2007. These net sales were for products in multiple reportable
    segments.


 



    Competition


 


    The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive
    and characterized by rapid technological change. Applied’s
    ability to compete generally depends on its ability to timely
    commercialize its technology, continually improve its products
    and develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer
    requirements. Significant competitive factors include technical
    capability and differentiation, productivity and
    cost-effectiveness. The importance of these factors varies
    according to customers’ needs, including product mix and
    respective product requirements, applications, and the timing
    and circumstances of purchasing decisions. Substantial
    competition exists in all areas of Applied’s business.
    Competitors range from small companies that compete with a
    single product
    and/or in a
    single region, to global, diversified companies with a range of
    products. Applied’s ability to





    
    9



Table of Contents





    compete requires a high level of investment in RD&E,
    marketing and sales and global customer support activities.
    Management believes that many of Applied’s products have
    strong competitive positions.


 


    The competitive environment for each segment is described below:


 


    The semiconductor industry has been increasingly driven by
    consumer demand for lower-cost electronic products with
    increased capability and, to a lesser extent, by demand for
    commercial applications. As a result, products within the
    Silicon segment are subject to rapid changes in customer
    requirements, including transitions to smaller dimensions, new
    materials and an increasing number of applications. While
    certain existing technologies may be adapted to new
    requirements, some applications create the need for an entirely
    different technical approach. The rapid pace of technological
    change can quickly diminish the value of current technologies
    and products and create opportunities for existing and new
    competitors. Applied offers a broad portfolio of technically
    differentiated products that must continuously evolve to satisfy
    customers’ requirements in order to compete effectively.
    Applied allocates resources among its many product offerings and
    therefore may decide not to invest in an individual product to
    the same degree as competitors who specialize in fewer products.
    There are many competitors serving the semiconductor
    manufacturing equipment industry, with some offering a single
    product line and others offering multiple product lines. These
    competitors range from suppliers serving a single region to
    global, diversified companies.


 


    Products and services within the Applied Global Services segment
    are characterized by demanding worldwide service requirements
    and a diverse group of numerous competitors. To compete
    effectively, Applied offers products and services to reduce
    costs, improve productivity, and lessen the environmental impact
    of customers’ fab operations. Significant competitive
    factors include productivity, cost-effectiveness, and the level
    of technical service and support. The importance of these
    factors varies according to customers’ needs and the type
    of products or services offered.


 


    Products in the Display segment are subject to strong
    competition from a number of major competitors. Applied holds
    established market positions with its technically differentiated
    thin film technology (TFT)-LCD manufacturing solutions for
    PECVD, color filter PVD and TFT array testing, although its
    market position could change quickly due to customers’
    evolving requirements. In fiscal 2007, Applied entered the array
    PVD market with the
    AKT-PiVottm

    55KV PVD system. Applied faces significant competition from
    existing array PVD suppliers.


 


    Applied’s products within the Energy and Environmental
    Solutions segment compete in diverse market areas, including
    equipment to make solar PV cells and modules, flexible
    electronics and energy-efficient glass. In solar, Applied offers
    products for two distinct technologies, c-Si wafer-based and
    thin film glass-based applications. As a recent entrant to the
    solar equipment business, Applied competes with many other
    companies that have more experience with solar applications.
    Applied also is a recent entrant to the flexible electronics
    equipment business, which operates in an emerging market sector
    characterized by diverse types of applications, customer
    requirements and competitors. Applied’s glass coating
    equipment faces significant competition from at least one
    established supplier and another recent market entrant.


 



    Patents
    and Licenses


 


    Management believes that Applied’s competitive position
    significantly depends upon the Company’s research,
    development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing
    capabilities, and not just on its patent position. However,
    protection of Applied’s technological assets through
    enforcement of its intellectual property rights, including
    patents, is important. Therefore, Applied’s practice is to
    file patent applications in the United States and other
    countries for inventions that Applied considers significant.
    Applied has a substantial number of patents in the United States
    and other countries, and additional applications are pending for
    new inventions. Although Applied does not consider its business
    materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied
    and the products made and sold under its patents, taken as a
    whole, are a significant element of Applied’s business. In
    addition to patents, Applied also possesses other intellectual
    property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets and
    copyrights.




    
    10



Table of Contents





    Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements
    with other companies when management determines that it is in
    the Company’s best interest to do so. Applied pays
    royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use,
    in several of its products, of certain patented technologies
    that are licensed to Applied for the life of the patents.
    Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third
    parties. Royalties received from or paid to third parties have
    not been, and are not expected to be, material to Applied’s
    consolidated results of operations.


 


    In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives
    and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In
    dealing with such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful
    for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights.
    However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights
    will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms,
    or at all. If Applied is not able to resolve or settle claims,
    obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms,
    and/or
    successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    Two of Applied’s locations have been designated as
    environmental cleanup sites. In 1987, the United States
    Environmental Protection Agency designated one of the locations,
    in Santa Clara, California, as a Superfund site and named
    Applied as a “Responsible Party.” Cleanup activities
    at this site began in 1984 and were substantially completed in
    February 2002, and present activities consist of annual sampling
    of wells. The California Regional Water Quality Control Board
    designated Applied as a “Discharger” with respect to
    another site in Sunnyvale, California. Applied was named a
    Discharger upon its acquisition of the property in 1997 solely
    due to its status as property owner. The prior owners of the
    site and/or
    operators who caused the contamination are responsible for
    performing cleanup and monitoring activities.


 


    Applied maintains a number of environmental, health and safety
    programs that are primarily preventive in nature. As part of
    these programs, Applied regularly monitors ongoing compliance
    and periodically conducts investigations of possible
    contamination.


 


    Compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating
    the discharge of materials into the environment, remedial
    agreements and other actions relating to the environment have
    not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on
    Applied’s capital expenditures, competitive position,
    financial condition or results of operations.


 


    The most recent report on Applied’s environmental, health
    and safety activities can be found in the Company’s
    Citizenship Report on its website at
    http://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/environment.html.
    This report is updated periodically. This website address is
    intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the
    information on Applied’s website is part of this
    Form 10-K
    or is incorporated by reference herein.


 



    Employees


 


    At October 25, 2009, Applied employed 12,619 regular
    employees and 413 temporary employees. In the high-technology
    industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense.
    Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent
    upon its continued ability to attract, retain and motivate
    qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will
    be able to attract, hire, assimilate, motivate and retain a
    sufficient number of qualified employees.




    
    11



Table of Contents






    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    The following table and notes set forth information about
    Applied’s executive officers as of October 25, 2009:


 




     	
     	
     	






    Name of Individual



 



    Position




 






    Michael R. Splinter(1)



 


    Chairman of Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive
    Officer





    Franz Janker(2)



 


    Executive Vice President, Corporate Account Management





    George S. Davis(3)



 


    Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer





    Manfred Kerschbaum(4)



 


    Senior Vice President, Chief of Staff





    Mark R. Pinto(5)



 


    Senior Vice President, General Manager Energy and Environmental
    Solutions and Display, Chief Technology Officer





    Joseph J. Sweeney(6)



 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary





    Randhir Thakur(7)



 


    Senior Vice President, General Manager Silicon Systems





    Chris Bowers(8)



 


    Group Vice President, General Manager Corporate Services





    Ron Kifer(9)



 


    Group Vice President, Chief Information Officer





    Mary Humiston(10)



 


    Corporate Vice President, Global Human Resources





    Charlie Pappis(11)



 


    Corporate Vice President, General Manager Applied Global Services





    Yvonne Weatherford(12)



 


    Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Mr. Splinter, age 59, was named President, Chief
    Executive Officer and a member of Applied’s Board of
    Directors upon joining Applied in April 2003, and he has been
    Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 2009. Prior to
    joining Applied, Mr. Splinter worked for nearly
    20 years at Intel Corporation (Intel), most recently as
    Executive Vice President and Director of the Sales and Marketing
    Group, responsible for sales and operations worldwide.
    Mr. Splinter previously held various executive positions at
    Intel, including Executive Vice President and General Manager of
    the Technology and Manufacturing Group.



 


    
    (2) 
    
    
    Mr. Janker, age 60 was named Executive Vice President,
    Corporate Account Management in September 2009. Prior to that he
    was the head of Sales and Marketing from May 2003 to September
    2009, initially as Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing
    and, beginning in December 2004, as Executive Vice President,
    Sales and Marketing. He served as Senior Vice President, Global
    Operations and Corporate Marketing beginning in December of
    2002. From December 1998 to 2002, he served as Group Vice
    President, Corporate Marketing and Business Management. From
    1982 to 1998, Mr. Janker served in a variety of sales and
    marketing management positions with Applied in the United States
    and Europe.



 


    
    (3) 
    
    
    Mr. Davis, age 52, was promoted to Senior Vice
    President, Chief Financial Officer in December 2006, after being
    appointed Group Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
    effective November 1, 2006. Previously, he had been Group
    Vice President, General Manager, Corporate Business Development
    since February 2005. From November 1999 to February 2005,
    Mr. Davis served as Vice President and Corporate Treasurer,
    where he managed Applied’s worldwide treasury operations
    and was responsible for investments, tax, financial risk
    management, and trade and export matters. Mr. Davis joined
    Applied in 1999.



 


    
    (4) 
    
    
    Mr. Kerschbaum, age 55, was named Senior Vice
    President, Chief of Staff in September 2009. Prior to that he
    served as Senior Vice President, General Manager, Applied Global
    Services from January 2005 to September 2009.
    Mr. Kerschbaum was Senior Vice President, Global Operations
    from July 2004 to January 2005 and from October 2002 to May
    2003. From May 2003 to July 2004, he was Group Vice President,
    Foundation Engineering and Operations. From January 1996 to
    October 2002, he held various positions in Applied Materials
    North America, most recently as Group Vice President, General
    Manager, Applied Materials North America. Mr. Kerschbaum
    has served in various other operations, customer service and
    engineering positions since joining Applied in 1983.



 


    
    (5) 
    
    
    Dr. Pinto, age 50, has served as Senior Vice President
    since joining Applied in January 2004. His current
    responsibility is General Manager, Energy and Environmental
    Solutions and Display as well as the corporate 







    
    12



Table of Contents







    
    
    



    

    
    
    Chief Technology Officer. Prior to joining Applied,
    Dr. Pinto spent 19 years with Bell Laboratories and
    the Lucent Microelectronics Group, which later became Agere
    Systems Inc., most recently as Vice President of the Analog
    Products Division. Dr. Pinto holds a Ph.D. in Electrical
    Engineering from Stanford University.



 


    
    (6) 
    
    
    Mr. Sweeney, age 61, has held the position of Senior
    Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of
    Applied since July 2005, with responsibility for global legal
    affairs, intellectual property and security. From April 2002 to
    July 2005, Mr. Sweeney was Group Vice President, Legal
    Affairs and Intellectual Property, and Corporate Secretary.
    Mr. Sweeney joined Applied in 1993.



 


    
    (7) 
    
    
    Dr. Thakur, age 47, has held the position of Senior
    Vice President, General Manager Silicon Systems since October
    2009. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, General Manager,
    Thin Film Solar and Display. He was appointed Senior Vice
    President, General Manager, Strategic Operations when he
    rejoined Applied in May 2008. He previously was with Applied
    from 2000 to 2005 in a variety of executive roles including
    Group Vice President, General Manager for Front End Products.
    From September 2005 to May 2008, Dr. Thakur served as
    Executive Vice President of Technology and Fab Operations at
    SanDisk Corporation and as head of SanDisk’s worldwide
    operations. Prior to joining Applied in 2000, Dr. Thakur
    served in leadership roles at Steag Electronic Systems AG and
    Micron Technology, Inc.



 


    
    (8) 
    
    
    Mr. Bowers, age 49, has been Group Vice President,
    General Manager, Corporate Services since March 2008. From March
    2008 to September 2009, he served as Chief of Staff. Prior to
    joining Applied, Mr. Bowers was a partner at the Hay Group,
    where he held various business leadership and consulting
    positions from 1992 to 2008. Most recently, he was Director of
    Client Services in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and a
    member of the Hay Group Global R&D Council.



 


    
    (9) 
    
    
    Mr. Kifer, age 58, joined Applied in May 2006 as Group
    Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Global Information
    Services. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Kifer spent five
    years with DHL in various executive management roles, most
    recently as the Senior Vice President and Chief Information
    Officer for North America, Asia Pacific and Emerging
    Markets.



 


    
    (10) 
    
    
    Ms. Humiston, age 44, was appointed to Corporate Vice
    President, Global Human Resources in June 2009. Since joining
    Applied in July 2008, she served as the Vice President of Human
    Resources for both the Energy and Environmental Display SunFab
    Solar groups. Prior to joining Applied, Ms. Humiston was
    Vice President of Human Resources at Honeywell International
    Inc. from October 2002 to June 2008 with responsibility for
    various corporate and international organizations, and held
    executive positions with PeoplePC, Gap, Inc. and GE.



 


    
    (11) 
    
    
    Mr. Pappis, age 49, was appointed Corporate Vice
    President and General Manager of Applied Global Services in
    September 2009. He served as Corporate Vice President and
    General Manager for the Semiconductor Service Solutions group in
    Applied Global Services from January 2009 to September 2009.
    Prior to this, he served as general manager for Equipment
    Productivity Services in Applied Global Services. He has held
    various other management positions since joining Applied in 1986.



 


    
    (12) 
    
    
    Ms. Weatherford, age 58, has served as Corporate Vice
    President, Corporate Controller since December 2004.
    Ms. Weatherford was Appointed Vice President, Business
    Operations Controller from December 2001 to December 2004, and
    Appointed Vice President, Financial Operations Controller from
    October 2000 to December 2001. She has held various other
    finance roles since joining Applied in 1990.




 



    Available
    Information


 


    Applied’s website is
    http://www.appliedmaterials.com.
    Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its
    website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any
    amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable
    after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing
    them to, the SEC. This website address is intended to be an
    inactive textual reference only. None of the information on
    Applied’s website is part of this
    Form 10-K
    or is incorporated by reference herein.




    
    13



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The following factors could materially affect Applied’s
    business, financial condition or results of operations and
    should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its
    business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere
    in this report.


 



    The
    industries that Applied serves are volatile and difficult to
    predict.


 


    As a supplier to the global semiconductor, flat panel display,
    solar and related industries, Applied is subject to business
    cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be
    difficult to predict and which vary by reportable segment. These
    industries historically have been cyclical due to sudden changes
    in customers’ manufacturing capacity requirements and
    spending, which depend in part on customers’ capacity
    utilization, production volumes, end-use demand, inventory
    levels relative to demand, and access to affordable capital.
    These changes have affected the timing and amounts of
    customers’ purchases and investments in technology, and
    continue to affect Applied’s orders, net sales, operating
    expenses and net income.


 


    To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves,
    Applied must effectively manage its resources and production
    capacity for each of its segments as well as across multiple
    segments. The challenging economic and industry conditions have
    adversely affected Applied’s customers and led to a
    significant decrease in demand for many of Applied’s
    products, although indications of improving conditions are
    beginning to appear. During periods of increasing demand for its
    products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity
    and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its
    supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number
    of qualified individuals; and continue to control costs. During
    periods of decreasing demand, Applied must be able to
    appropriately align its cost structure with prevailing market
    conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate
    and retain key employees. If Applied is not able to timely and
    appropriately adapt to changes in its business environment,
    Applied’s business, financial condition or results of
    operations may be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with the difficult financial
    markets and weak global economy.


 


    The tightening of the credit markets, disruption in the
    financial markets, and global economic downturn experienced over
    the last several quarters contributed to significant slowdowns
    in the industries in which Applied operates, which slowdowns may
    persist or worsen if these economic conditions are prolonged or
    deteriorate further. The markets for semiconductors and flat
    panel displays in particular depend largely on consumer
    spending. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in
    consumer spending and may cause certain Applied customers to
    push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for equipment
    or services, which may reduce net sales, reduce backlog, and
    affect Applied’s ability to convert backlog to sales.
    Difficulties in obtaining capital and uncertain market
    conditions may also lead to the inability of some customers to
    obtain affordable financing and to customer insolvencies,
    resulting in lower sales
    and/or
    additional inventory or bad debt expense for Applied. These
    conditions may also similarly affect key suppliers, which could
    impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for
    Applied’s products. In addition, these conditions may lead
    to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other equipment
    manufacturers, which could adversely affect Applied’s
    ability to compete effectively.


 


    Further, these adverse conditions and uncertainty about future
    economic and industry conditions make it challenging for Applied
    to forecast its operating results, make business decisions, and
    identify the risks that may affect its business, sources and
    uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations.
    Applied may be required to implement additional cost reduction
    efforts, including restructuring activities,
    and/or
    modify its business model, which may adversely affect
    Applied’s ability to capitalize on opportunities in a
    market recovery. In addition, Applied maintains an investment
    portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign
    exchange, market and interest rate risks and that also includes
    some exposure to asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities.
    The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be
    exacerbated by deteriorating financial market conditions and, as
    a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio
    could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges. If
    Applied is not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes
    resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment and
    industry conditions, Applied’s business, financial
    condition or results of operations may be materially and
    adversely affected.




    
    14



Table of Contents






    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the
    various industries in which it operates.


 


    The global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related
    industries in which Applied operates are characterized by
    ongoing changes affecting some or all of these industries,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increasing capital requirements for building and operating new
    fabrication plants and customers’ ability to raise the
    necessary capital, particularly in a difficult financial market;




 



     
        • 

    
    differences in growth rates among the semiconductor, display and
    solar industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    abrupt and unforeseen shifts in the nature and amount of
    customer and end-user demand;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing cost and complexity for customers to move from
    product design to volume manufacturing, which may slow the
    adoption rate for new manufacturing technology;




 



     
        • 

    
    the importance of reducing the total cost of manufacturing
    system ownership, due in part to greater demand for lower-cost
    consumer electronics as compared to business information
    technology spending;




 



     
        • 

    
    the heightened importance to customers of system reliability and
    productivity and the effect on demand for fabrication systems as
    a result of their increasing productivity, device yield and
    reliability;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased need to develop products with sufficient
    differentiation to influence customers’ purchasing
    decisions;




 



     
        • 

    
    requirements for shorter cycle times for the development,
    manufacture and installation of manufacturing equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    price and performance trends for semiconductor devices, LCDs and
    solar PVs, and the corresponding effect on demand for such
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing importance of the availability of spare parts to
    maximize the time that customers’ systems are available for
    production;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing role for and complexity of software in Applied
    products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing focus on reducing energy usage and improving the
    environmental impact and sustainability associated with
    manufacturing operations.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    the ongoing changes in the semiconductor, flat panel display,
    solar and related industries, its business, financial condition
    and results of operations could be materially and adversely
    affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to
    the semiconductor industry.


 


    The greatest portion of Applied’s revenues and
    profitability historically has been derived from sales of
    manufacturing equipment to the global semiconductor industry. In
    addition, a majority of the revenues of Applied Global Services
    is from sales of service products to semiconductor
    manufacturers. The semiconductor industry is characterized by
    ongoing changes particular to that industry, in addition to the
    general industry changes described in the preceding risk factor,
    which may result in decreased spending by customers and
    negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and
    results of operations. The changes include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the increasing cost of research and development due to many
    factors, including: decreasing linewidths on a chip; the use of
    new materials such as cobalt and yttrium; more complex device
    structures; more applications and process steps; increasing chip
    design costs; and the increasing cost and complexity of an
    integrated manufacturing process;




 



     
        • 

    
    the growing number of types and varieties of semiconductors and
    number of applications across multiple substrate sizes;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing market growth rates and capital requirements for
    different applications, such as memory (including NAND flash and
    DRAM), logic and foundry, and Applied’s ability to compete
    in these market segments;







    
    15



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the increasing cost and complexity for semiconductor
    manufacturers to move more technically advanced capability and
    smaller linewidths to volume manufacturing, and the resulting
    impact on the rates of technology transition and investment in
    capital equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    semiconductor manufacturers’ increasing adoption of more
    productive 300mm systems and reductions in 200mm system
    capacity, and the resulting effect on demand for manufacturing
    equipment and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    the decreasing rate of capital expenditures as a percentage of
    semiconductor manufacturers’ revenue;




 



     
        • 

    
    the decreasing profitability of many semiconductor
    manufacturers, causing them to enter into collaboration or
    cost-sharing arrangements with other manufacturers, outsource
    manufacturing activities, focus only on specific markets or
    applications,
    and/or
    purchase less manufacturing equipment, which puts downward
    pressure on sales prices for, and the rate of investment in,
    capital equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    technology developments in related markets, such as lithography,
    to which Applied may need to adapt;




 



     
        • 

    
    competitive factors that make it difficult to enhance market
    position, especially in larger market segments such as etch;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing market fragmentation for semiconductors, leading
    certain markets to become too small to support the cost of a new
    fabrication plant; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the cost, technical complexity and timing of a proposed
    transition from 300mm to 450mm wafers.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    the ongoing changes occurring in the semiconductor industry, its
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to
    the flat panel display industry.


 


    The global flat panel display industry historically has
    experienced considerable volatility in capital equipment
    investment levels, due in part to the limited number of LCD
    manufacturers and the concentrated nature of LCD end-use
    applications. Recently, industry growth has depended to a
    considerable extent on consumer demand for increasingly larger
    and more advanced TVs. In addition to the general industry
    changes described above in the third risk factor, the display
    industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to that
    industry, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    technical and financial difficulties associated with
    transitioning to larger substrate sizes for LCDs;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effect of a slowing rate of transition to larger substrate
    sizes on capital intensity and product differentiation;




 



     
        • 

    
    new energy efficiency standards for large-screen LCD TVs
    ; and




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainty with respect to future LCD technology end-use
    applications and growth drivers.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    the ongoing changes occurring in the display industry, its
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to
    the solar industry.


 


    Applied anticipates that an increasing portion of its business
    will be in the emerging solar market, which, in addition to the
    general industry changes described above in the third risk
    factor, is characterized by ongoing changes specific to the
    solar industry, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the impact on demand for solar PV products arising from the cost
    and performance of solar PV technology compared to the cost of
    electricity from the existing grid or other energy sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    the critical role played by energy policies of governments
    around the world in influencing the rate of growth of the solar
    market including the availability and amount of government
    incentives for solar power such as tax credits, rebates,
    renewable portfolio standards that require electricity providers
    to sell a targeted amount of energy from renewable sources, and
    goals for solar installations on government facilities;







    
    16



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in the nature and amount of end demand for solar PVs
    that adversely impact the profitability and growth rates of
    Applied’s products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the extent of investment or participation in the solar market by
    utilities that generate, transmit or distribute power to
    end-users;




 



     
        • 

    
    evolving industry standards, such as a standard form factor for
    thin film solar modules;




 



     
        • 

    
    varying levels of infrastructure investment for “smart
    grid” technologies to modernize and enhance the
    transmission, distribution and use of electricity, which link
    distributed solar PV sources to population centers, increase
    transmission capability, and optimize power usage;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory and third party certification requirements, and
    customers’ ability to timely satisfy such requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing rates of production of solar PVs in China;




 



     
        • 

    
    access to affordable financing and capital by customers and
    end-users; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increasingly greater factory output and scalability of solar PVs.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    the ongoing changes occurring in the solar industry, its
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    must adapt its business and product offerings to respond to
    competition and rapid technological changes.


 


    As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment, its
    future success depends on many factors, including the effective
    commercialization and customer acceptance of its
    nanomanufacturing technology equipment, service and related
    products. In addition, Applied must successfully execute its
    growth strategy, including enhancing market share in existing
    markets, expanding into related markets, cultivating new markets
    and exceeding industry growth rates, while constantly improving
    its operational performance. The development, introduction and
    support of a broadening set of products in more varied
    competitive environments have grown increasingly complex and
    expensive over time. Furthermore, new or improved products may
    entail higher costs and reduced profits. Applied’s success
    is subject to many risks, including but not limited to its
    ability to timely, cost-effectively and successfully:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    develop new products, improve
    and/or
    develop new applications for existing products, and adapt
    similar products for use by customers in different applications
    and/or
    markets with varying technical requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    appropriately price and achieve market acceptance of products;




 



     
        • 

    
    differentiate its products from those of competitors and any
    disruptive technologies, meet performance specifications, and
    drive efficiencies and cost reductions;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain operating flexibility to enable different responses to
    different markets, customers and applications;




 



     
        • 

    
    grow the profitability and market acceptance of its thin film
    solar products;




 



     
        • 

    
    allocate resources, including people and R&D funding, among
    Applied’s products and between the development of new
    products and the enhancement of existing products, as most
    appropriate and effective for future growth;




 



     
        • 

    
    accurately forecast demand, work with suppliers and meet
    production schedules for its products;




 



     
        • 

    
    improve its manufacturing processes and achieve cost
    efficiencies across product offerings;




 



     
        • 

    
    adapt to changes in value offered by companies in different
    parts of the supply chain;




 



     
        • 

    
    qualify products for volume manufacturing with its customers;







    
    17



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    implement changes in its design engineering methodology,
    including those that enable reduction of material costs and
    cycle time, greater commonality of platforms and types of parts
    used in different systems, greater effectiveness of product life
    cycle management, and reduced energy usage and environmental
    impact; and




 



     
        • 

    
    accomplish the simultaneous
    start-up of
    multiple integrated thin film solar production lines.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage these challenges, its
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Operating
    in multiple industries and the entry into new markets and
    industries entail additional challenges.


 


    As part of its growth strategy, Applied must successfully expand
    into related or new markets and industries, either with its
    existing nanomanufacturing technology products or with new
    products developed internally or obtained through acquisitions.
    The entry into different markets involves additional challenges,
    including those arising from:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the need to devote additional resources to develop new products
    for, and operate in, new markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    differing rates of profitability and growth among its multiple
    businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    Applied’s ability to anticipate demand, capitalize on
    opportunities, and avoid or minimize risks;




 



     
        • 

    
    the complexity of managing multiple businesses with variations
    in production planning, execution, supply chain management and
    logistics;




 



     
        • 

    
    the adoption of new business models, such as the supply of an
    integrated production line consisting of a suite of Applied and
    non-Applied equipment to manufacture solar PVs;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to undertake activities to grow demand for end-products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to develop adequate new business processes and systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    Applied’s ability to rapidly expand its operations to meet
    increased demand and the associated effect on working capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    new materials, processes and technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to attract, motivate and retain employees with skills
    and expertise in these new areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    new and more diverse customers and suppliers, including some
    with limited operating histories, uncertain
    and/or
    limited funding, evolving business models
    and/or
    locations in regions where Applied does not have existing
    operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    different customer service requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    new and/or
    different competitors with potentially more financial or other
    resources and industry experience;




 



     
        • 

    
    entry into new industries and countries, with differing levels
    of government involvement, laws and regulations, and business,
    employment and safety practices;




 



     
        • 

    
    third parties’ intellectual property rights; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to comply with, or work to establish, industry
    standards and practices.





 


    If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from
    its diversification and entry into new markets and industries,
    its business, financial condition and results of operations
    could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to the risks of operating a global
    business.


 


    In fiscal 2009, approximately 81 percent of Applied’s
    net sales were to customers in regions outside the
    United States. Certain of Applied’s R&D
    and/or
    manufacturing facilities, as well as suppliers to Applied, are
    also located outside the United States, including in China.
    Applied is also expanding its business and operations in new





    
    18



Table of Contents





    countries. The global nature of Applied’s business and
    operations presents challenges, including but not limited to
    those arising from:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and
    demands;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in political and social attitudes, laws, rules,
    regulations and policies to favor domestic companies over
    non-domestic companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations among, and changes in, local, regional, national or
    international laws and regulations (including tax and import
    /export restrictions), as well as the interpretation and
    application of such laws and regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    global trade issues, including those related to the
    interpretation and application of import and export licenses;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations in protection of intellectual property and other
    legal rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    positions taken by U.S. governmental agencies regarding
    possible national commercial
    and/or
    security issues posed by international business operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuating raw material and energy costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations in the ability to develop relationships with
    suppliers and other local businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates,
    including the relative strength or weakness of the
    U.S. dollar;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in
    different locations;




 



     
        • 

    
    political instability, natural disasters (such as earthquakes,
    floods or storms), pandemics, terrorism or acts of war in
    locations where Applied has operations, suppliers or sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    cultural differences;




 



     
        • 

    
    customer- or government-supported efforts to promote the
    development and growth of local competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    shipping costs
    and/or
    delays;




 



     
        • 

    
    the need to continually improve the Company’s operating
    cost structure;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties and uncertainties associated with the entry into
    new countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various
    countries; and




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainties with respect to growth rates for the manufacture
    and sales of semiconductors, LCDs and solar PVs in the
    developing economies of certain countries.





 


    Many of these challenges are present in China, which is
    experiencing significant growth of both suppliers and
    competitors to Applied. Applied further believes that China
    presents a large potential market for its products and
    opportunity for growth over the long term, although at lower
    projected levels of profitability and margins than historically
    have been achieved in other regions. In addition, Applied must
    regularly reassess the size, capability and location of its
    global infrastructure and make appropriate changes, and must
    have effective change management processes and procedures to
    address changes in its business and operations. These challenges
    may materially and adversely affect Applied’s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated
    customer base.


 


    Applied’s semiconductor and flat panel display customer
    bases historically have been, and are becoming even more, highly
    concentrated as a result of industry conditions. These
    conditions are also adversely affecting customers’
    profitability and access to capital, which leads to lower
    R&D funding and capital expenditures. In addition, certain
    customers have entered into strategic alliances or industry
    consortia that have increased the influence of key industry
    participants in technology decisions made by their partners. In
    the solar area, while the number of solar PV manufacturing
    customers increases as the number of market entrants grows, the
    size of contracts with particular customers is expected to rise
    substantially as the industry moves to greater solar module





    
    19



Table of Contents





    factory output capacity. The ongoing adverse conditions in the
    credit and financial markets and industry slowdowns have caused,
    and may continue to cause, some customers to postpone delivery,
    reduce or cancel orders, exit businesses, merge with other
    manufacturers or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially
    cease operations. In this environment, contracts or orders from
    a relatively limited number of semiconductor, display and solar
    manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to continue
    to account for, a substantial portion of Applied’s
    business. In addition, the mix and type of customers, and sales
    to any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to
    quarter and from year to year. If customers do not place orders,
    or they substantially reduce, delay or cancel orders, Applied
    may not be able to replace the business. As Applied’s
    products are configured to customer specifications, changing,
    rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant,
    non-recoverable costs. Major customers may also seek, and on
    occasion receive, pricing, payment, intellectual
    property-related, or other commercial terms that are less
    favorable to Applied. In addition, certain customers have
    undergone significant ownership
    and/or
    management changes, outsourced manufacturing activities, engaged
    in collaboration or cooperation arrangements with other
    customers, or consolidated with other customers, each of which
    may result in additional complexities in managing customer
    relationships and transactions, as well as cancelled or
    decreased orders and lower net sales. These factors could have a
    material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and strategic
    investments.


 


    Applied has made, and in the future intends to make,
    acquisitions of, and investments in, companies, technologies or
    products in existing, related or new markets for Applied.
    Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited
    to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    diversion of management’s attention from other operational
    matters;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to complete acquisitions as anticipated or at all;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to realize anticipated benefits;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to commercialize purchased technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to capitalize on characteristics of new markets that
    may be significantly different from Applied’s existing
    markets and where competitors may have stronger market positions;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to attract, retain and motivate key employees from the
    acquired business;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposure to operational risks, rules and regulations to the
    extent such activities are located in countries where Applied
    has not historically conducted business;




 



     
        • 

    
    challenges associated with managing larger, more diverse and
    more widespread operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in
    key technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired company’s
    internal financial controls, disclosure controls and procedures,
    and/or
    environmental, health & safety, human resource, or
    other policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of
    technological advancements or
    worse-than-expected
    performance of the acquired company or its product offerings;




 



     
        • 

    
    the risk of litigation or disputes with customers, suppliers,
    partners or stockholders of an acquisition target arising from a
    proposed or completed transaction;




 



     
        • 

    
    unknown, underestimated
    and/or
    undisclosed commitments or liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical
    resources or facilities for business needs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    ineffective integration of operations, systems, technologies,
    products or employees of an acquired business.





 


    Applied also makes strategic investments in other companies,
    including companies formed as joint ventures, which may decline
    in value
    and/or not
    meet desired objectives. The success of these investments
    depends on various factors over which Applied may have limited
    or no control and, particularly with respect to joint ventures,
    requires





    
    20



Table of Contents





    ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic partners. The
    risks to Applied’s strategic investment portfolio may be
    exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic
    conditions and, as a result, the value of the investment
    portfolio could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment
    charges. Mergers and acquisitions and strategic investments are
    inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to
    effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely
    affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results
    of operations. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks
    associated with acquisitions and strategic investments, its
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Manufacturing
    interruptions or delays could affect Applied’s ability to
    meet customer demand, while the failure to estimate customer
    demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete
    inventory.


 


    Applied’s business depends on its ability to timely supply
    equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly
    changing technical and volume requirements of its customers,
    which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts,
    components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from
    suppliers. Some key parts may be subject to long lead-times
    and/or
    obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of
    suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by
    suppliers located in countries other than the United States,
    including China. Further, the ongoing adverse conditions in the
    credit and financial markets and industry slowdowns have caused,
    and may continue to cause, some suppliers to scale back
    operations, exit businesses, merge with other companies, or file
    for bankruptcy protection and possibly cease operations,
    potentially affecting Applied’s ability to obtain parts.
    Applied may experience significant interruptions of its
    manufacturing operations, delays in its ability to deliver
    products or services, increased costs or customer order
    cancellations as a result of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality
    parts;




 



     
        • 

    
    volatility in the availability and cost of materials;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties or delays in obtaining required import or export
    approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    information technology or infrastructure failures;




 



     
        • 

    
    natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or
    storms); or




 



     
        • 

    
    other causes (such as regional economic downturns, pandemics,
    political instability, terrorism, or acts of war) that could
    result in delayed deliveries, manufacturing inefficiencies,
    increased costs or order cancellations.





 


    In addition, Applied’s need to rapidly increase its
    business and manufacturing capacity to meet increases in demand
    or expedited shipment schedules may exacerbate any interruptions
    in Applied’s manufacturing operations and supply chain and
    the associated effect on Applied’s working capital.
    Moreover, if actual demand for Applied’s products is
    different than expected, Applied may purchase more/fewer parts
    than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or
    expediting delivery of parts. The volatility of demand for
    capital equipment increases capital, technical and other risks
    for companies in the supply chain. Any or all of these factors
    could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    The
    failure to successfully implement and conduct off-shoring and
    outsourcing activities and other operational initiatives could
    adversely affect results of operations.


 


    To better align its costs with market conditions, increase its
    presence in growing markets, enhance productivity, and improve
    efficiencies, Applied conducts engineering, software development
    and other operations in regions outside the United States,
    particularly India and China, and outsources certain functions
    to third parties, including companies in the United States,
    India, China and other countries. Outsourced functions include
    certain engineering, manufacturing, customer support, software
    development, information technology support, finance and
    administrative activities. The expanding role of third party
    providers has required changes to Applied’s existing
    operations and the adoption of new procedures and processes for
    retaining and managing these providers, as well as
    redistributing responsibilities as warranted, in order to
    realize the potential productivity and operational efficiencies,
    assure quality and continuity of supply, and protect
    Applied’s intellectual property. In addition, Applied has
    implemented several key operational initiatives intended to
    improve manufacturing efficiency, including





    
    21



Table of Contents





    integrate-to-order,
    module-final-test and
    merge-in-transit
    programs. Applied also is implementing a multi-year,
    company-wide program to transform certain business processes,
    including the transition to a single enterprise resource
    planning (ERP) software system to perform various functions. The
    implementation of additional functionality to the ERP system
    entails certain risks, including difficulties with changes in
    business processes that could disrupt Applied’s operations,
    such as its ability to track orders and timely ship products,
    project inventory requirements, manage its supply chain and
    aggregate financial and operational data. The implementation of
    new initiatives may not achieve the anticipated benefits and may
    divert management’s attention from other operational
    activities, negatively affect employee morale, or have other
    unintended consequences.


 


    If Applied does not effectively develop and implement its
    off-shoring and outsourcing strategies, if required export and
    other governmental approvals are not timely obtained, if
    Applied’s third party providers do not perform as
    anticipated, or if there are delays or difficulties in
    implementing a new ERP system or enhancing business processes,
    Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or
    cost efficiencies, and may experience operational difficulties,
    increased costs (including energy and transportation),
    manufacturing interruptions or delays, inefficiencies in the
    structure
    and/or
    operation of its supply chain, loss of its intellectual property
    rights, quality issues, increased product
    time-to-market
    and/or
    inefficient allocation of human resources, any or all of which
    could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    The
    ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital
    to Applied’s success.


 


    Applied’s success and competitiveness depend in large part
    on its ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees.
    Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors,
    including fluctuations in global economic and industry
    conditions, changes in Applied’s management or leadership,
    competitors’ hiring practices, cost reduction activities
    (including workforce reductions, unpaid shutdowns and salary
    reductions), and the effectiveness of Applied’s
    compensation and benefit programs, including its equity-based
    programs. Applied periodically evaluates its overall
    compensation program and makes adjustments, as appropriate, to
    enhance its competitiveness. If Applied does not successfully
    attract, retain and motivate key employees, Applied may be
    unable to capitalize on its opportunities and its operating
    results may be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Changes
    in tax rates or tax assets and liabilities could affect results
    of operations.


 


    As a global company, Applied is subject to taxation in the
    United States and various other countries. Significant judgment
    is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities.
    Applied’s future annual and quarterly tax rates could be
    affected by numerous factors, including changes in the:
    (1) applicable tax laws; (2) amount and composition of
    pre-tax income in countries with differing tax rates; or
    (3) valuation of Applied’s deferred tax assets and
    liabilities. In addition, Applied is subject to regular
    examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax
    authorities, and from time to time initiates amendments to
    previously filed tax returns. Applied regularly assesses the
    likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from
    these examinations and amendments to determine the adequacy of
    its provision for income taxes. Although Applied believes its
    tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the
    tax authorities will agree with such estimates. Applied may have
    to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in the
    estimates, which may be time-consuming and expensive. There can
    be no assurance that Applied will be successful or that any
    final determination will not be materially different from the
    treatment reflected in Applied’s historical income tax
    provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely
    affect Applied’s financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or
    claims and protection of intellectual property
    rights.


 


    Applied from time to time is, and in the future may be, involved
    in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement,
    intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental
    regulations, securities, contracts, product performance, product
    liability, unfair competition, employment and other matters. In
    addition, Applied on occasion receives notification from
    customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or
    other obligations related to claims made against such customers
    by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether
    with or without merit, may be time-consuming and expensive to
    prosecute or defend, divert management’s attention and
    resources,
    and/or
    inhibit Applied’s ability to sell its products. There can
    be no assurance regarding the outcome of





    
    22



Table of Contents





    current or future legal proceedings or claims. Applied
    previously entered into a mutual covenant-not-to-sue arrangement
    with one of its competitors to decrease the risk of patent
    infringement lawsuits in the future. There can be no assurance
    that the intended results of this arrangement will be achieved
    or that Applied will be able to adequately protect its
    intellectual property rights with the restrictions associated
    with such a covenant. In addition, Applied’s success
    depends in significant part on the protection of its
    intellectual property and other rights. Infringement of
    Applied’s rights by a third party, such as the unauthorized
    manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts, could result in
    uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied.
    Applied’s intellectual property rights may not provide
    significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented,
    invalidated, rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of
    technological change, or if Applied does not adequately protect
    or assert these rights. Furthermore, the laws and practices of
    other countries, including China, India, Taiwan and Korea,
    permit the protection and enforcement of Applied’s rights
    to varying extents, which may not be sufficient to protect
    Applied’s rights. If Applied is not able to obtain or
    enforce intellectual property rights, resolve or settle claims,
    obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms,
    and/or
    successfully prosecute or defend its intellectual property
    position, Applied’s business, financial condition and
    results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental and
    safety regulations.


 


    Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in
    connection with its global business operations, including but
    not limited to: regulations related to the development,
    manufacture and use of its products; recycling and disposal of
    materials used in its products or in producing its products; the
    operation of its facilities; and the use of its real property.
    The failure or inability to comply with existing or future
    environmental and safety regulations could result in:
    (1) significant remediation liabilities; (2) the
    imposition of fines; (3) the suspension or termination of
    the development, manufacture, sale or use of certain of its
    products; (4) limitations on the operation of its
    facilities or ability to use its real property;
    and/or
    (5) a decrease in the value of its real property, each of
    which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Applied
    is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory
    environment.


 


    Applied is subject to various risks related to: (1) new,
    different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and
    regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies
    and/or
    regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates;
    (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional
    regulatory agencies related to international trade; and
    (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and
    regulations. If Applied is found by a court or regulatory agency
    not to be in compliance with applicable laws, rules or
    regulations, Applied’s business, financial condition and
    results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.


 



    Applied
    is subject to internal control evaluations and attestation
    requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act.


 


    Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
    Applied must include in its Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    a report of management on the effectiveness of Applied’s
    internal control over financial reporting. Ongoing compliance
    with this requirement is complex, costly and time-consuming. If
    Applied fails to maintain effective internal control over
    financial reporting or Applied’s management does not timely
    assess the adequacy of such internal control, Applied could be
    subject to regulatory sanctions and the public’s perception
    of Applied may decline.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B