Item 1A. Risk Factors).


 


    The Company’s foreign sales (approximately 46% of total
    sales in 2005 compared with 44% in 2004) have increased
    from a combination of internal growth and acquisitions. This
    combination has resulted in increases in export sales of
    products manufactured in the United States and sales from
    overseas operations.


 



    Description
    Of Business


 


    The products and markets of each operating segment are described
    below:


 



    EIG


 


    EIG is comprised of a group of differentiated businesses. EIG
    applies its specialized market focus and technology to
    manufacture instruments used for testing, monitoring and
    calibration for the process, aerospace, industrial and power
    markets. EIG’s growth is based on the four strategies
    outlined in AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan. EIG designs
    products that, in many instances, are significantly different
    from, or technologically better than, competing products. It has
    reduced costs by implementing operational improvements,
    achieving acquisition synergies, improving supply chain
    management, moving production to low-cost locales and reducing
    headcount. EIG is among the leaders in many of the specialized
    markets it serves, including aerospace engine sensors,
    heavy-vehicle instrument panels, analytical instrumentation,
    level measurement products, power instruments and pressure
    gauges. It also has joint venture operations in Japan, China and
    Taiwan. Approximately 48% of EIG’s 2005 sales were to
    markets outside the United States.


 


    EIG employs approximately 4,500 people, of whom approximately
    600 are covered by collective bargaining agreements. EIG has 37
    manufacturing facilities: 25 in the United States, ten in
    Europe, one in South America and one in Canada. EIG also shares
    manufacturing facilities with EMG in Mexico.


 



    Process
    and Analytical Instrumentation Markets and Products


 


    Approximately 59% of EIG sales are from instruments for process
    and analytical measurement and analysis. These include oxygen,
    moisture, combustion and liquid analyzers; emission monitors;
    spectrometers; mechanical and electronic pressure sensors and
    transmitters; radiation measurement devices; level measurement
    devices; precision pumping systems; and force-measurement and
    materials testing instrumentation. EIG’s focus is on the
    process industries, including oil, gas and petrochemical
    refining, power generation, specialty gas production, water and
    waste treatment, natural gas distribution, and semiconductor
    manufacturing. AMETEK’s analytical instruments are also
    used for precision measurement in a number of other applications
    including radiation detection for Homeland Security, materials
    analysis and nanotechnology research.


 


    Taylor Hobson, acquired in June 2004, designs, manufactures, and
    services a broad array of contact and non-contact
    instrumentation for ultraprecise measurement applications. These
    instruments measure surface texture, shape and roundness,
    dimensions that are critical in many industries including
    optics, semiconductor, hard disk drive, automotive and bearing
    manufacturing, and nanotechnology research.



    
    5



Table of Contents




    SPECTRO Analytical Instruments, acquired in June 2005, designs,
    manufactures, and services a broad array of atomic spectroscopic
    instrumentation used to analyze the elemental composition of
    solids and liquids. Using optical emission or energy dispersive
    x-ray fluorescence (ED-XRF) measurement techniques,
    SPECTRO’s instruments address the analysis requirements of
    a variety of end markets, including metal production and
    processing, environmental testing, hydrocarbon processing, the
    aerospace industry, food processing, and the pharmaceutical
    industry.


 


    Solartron, acquired in September 2005, is composed of three
    businesses: Solartron Analytical, Solartron Metrology and
    Solartron ISA. Solartron Analytical produces high-precision
    analytical measurement instrumentation and software for the
    characterization of materials. Solartron Metrology is a leading
    manufacturer of digital and analog gauging probes, displacement
    transducers and associated instrumentation used primarily to
    measure the size and form of machined or fabricated parts.
    Solartron ISA designs and manufactures flow measurement devices
    for the oil and gas industry.


 



    Aerospace
    Instrumentation Markets and Products


 


    Approximately 19% of EIG sales are from aerospace products.
    AMETEK’s aerospace products are designed to customer
    specifications and are manufactured to stringent operational and
    reliability requirements. Its aerospace business operates in
    specialized markets, where its products have a technological
    and/or cost advantage. Acquisitions have complemented and
    expanded EIG’s core sensor and transducer product line,
    used in a wide range of aerospace applications.


 


    Aerospace products include airborne data systems; turbine engine
    temperature measurement products; vibration-monitoring systems,
    indicators and displays; fuel and fluid measurement products;
    sensors; switches; cable harnesses; and transducers. EIG serves
    all segments of commercial aerospace, including helicopters,
    business jets, commuter aircraft, and commercial airliners, as
    well as the military market.


 


    Among its more significant competitive advantages are EIG’s
    50-plus years of experience as an aerospace supplier and its
    long-standing customer relationships with global commercial
    aircraft Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). Its customers
    are the leading producers of airframes and jet engines. It also
    serves the commercial aerospace aftermarket with spare part
    sales and repair and overhaul services.


 



    Industrial
    Instrumentation Markets and Products


 


    Approximately 12% of EIG sales are to the industrial
    instrumentation market.


 


    EIG’s Dixson business is a leading North American
    manufacturer of dashboard instruments for heavy trucks, and is
    also among the major suppliers of similar products for
    construction vehicles. It has strong product development
    capability in solid-state instruments that primarily monitor
    engine operating parameters. Through its NCC business, EIG has a
    leading position in the food service instrumentation market and
    is a primary source for stand-alone and integrated timing
    controls for the food service industry.


 


    The Chemical Products division is a custom compounder of
    engineered thermoplastic resins that offer enhanced strength,
    temperature resistance and other properties for automotive,
    consumer appliance and electronic applications. It also produces
    fluoropolymer-based products for heat exchangers.


 



    Power
    Instrumentation Markets and Products


 


    Approximately 10% of EIG sales are to the power instrumentation
    market.


 


    EIG is a leader in the design and manufacture of power
    measurement and recording instrumentation used by the electric
    power and manufacturing industries. Those products include power
    transducers and meters, event and transient recorders,
    annunciators and alarm monitoring systems used to measure,
    monitor and record variables in the transmission and
    distribution of electric power. The February 2003 acquisition of
    Solidstate Controls brought a line of Uninterruptible Power
    Supply systems for the process and power generation industries
    to EIG.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    In February 2006, EIG acquired Pulsar Technologies, Inc.
    (“Pulsar”). Pulsar, a leading designer and
    manufacturer of specialized communication equipment, will
    broaden EIG’s product offering for the electric power
    market.


 


    EIG also manufactures sensor systems for land-based gas turbines
    and for boilers and burners used by the utility, petrochemical,
    process, and marine industries worldwide.


 



    Customers


 


    EIG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss
    of that customer would have a material adverse effect on
    EIG’s operations. Approximately 15% of EIG’s 2005
    sales were made to its five largest customers, and no one
    customer accounted for 10% or more of 2005 consolidated sales.


 



    EMG


 


    EMG is among the leaders in many of the specialized markets it
    serves, including highly-engineered motors, blowers, fans, heat
    exchangers, connectors, and other electromechanical products or
    systems for commercial and military aerospace applications,
    defense, medical equipment, business machines and computers and
    other power or industrial applications. In its cost-driven motor
    business, the Company believes that EMG is the world’s
    largest producer of high-speed, air-moving electric motors for
    OEMs of floor care products. EMG’s growth is based on the
    four strategies outlined in AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan.
    EMG designs products that, in many instances, are significantly
    different from, or technologically better than, competing
    products. It has reduced costs by implementing operational
    improvements, achieving acquisition synergies, improving supply
    chain management, moving production to low-cost locales and
    reducing headcount.


 


    EMG employs approximately 5,100 people, of whom approximately
    2,200 are covered by collective bargaining agreements (including
    some that are covered by local unions). It has 27 manufacturing
    facilities: 17 in the United States, three in the United
    Kingdom, two in Italy, two in Mexico, one in China, one in the
    Czech Republic, and one in Brazil. Approximately 43% of
    EMG’s 2005 sales were to customers outside the United
    States.


 



    Differentiated
    Businesses


 


    Differentiated businesses account for an increasing proportion
    of EMG’s overall sales base. Differentiated businesses
    represented 56% of EMG’s sales in 2005 and are comprised of
    the materials, interconnects, microelectronic packaging, and
    technical motors and systems businesses described below.


 



    Materials,
    Interconnects and Packaging Markets and Products


 


    Approximately 18% of EMG sales are materials, interconnects and
    packaging products. AMETEK is an innovator and market leader in
    specialized metal powder, strip, wire, and bonded products. It
    produces stainless steel and nickel clad alloys; stainless
    steel, cobalt, and nickel alloy powders; metal strip; specialty
    shaped and electronic wire; and advanced metal matrix composites
    used in electronic thermal management. Its products are used in
    automotive, appliance, telecommunications, marine and general
    industrial applications. Its niche market focus is based upon
    proprietary manufacturing technology and strong customer
    relationships.


 


    With the acquisition of HCC in October 2005, EMG added a
    significant new product line. HCC designs and manufactures
    high-precision
    glass-to-metal
    seals and
    ceramic-to-metal
    seals. These seals protect sensitive electronics from the
    environment as well as provide thermal management capabilities.
    Products fall into three categories: connectors, terminals and
    headers, and microcircuit packaging. Connectors facilitate the
    passage of electrical current between two devices and allow them
    to be mechanically coupled and decoupled. Terminals and headers
    are interconnect devices that isolate electrical signals.
    Microcircuit packaging protects semiconductor circuitry from the
    environment. Key markets for HCC’s products are aerospace
    and defense, industrial and petrochemical markets.



    
    7



Table of Contents





    Technical
    Motors and Systems Markets and Products


 


    Technical motors and systems, representing 38% of EMG’s
    2005 sales, consist of brushless motors, blowers and pumps as
    well as other electromechanical systems. Their products are used
    in aerospace, business machines, computer equipment, defense,
    mass transit vehicles, medical equipment applications, power,
    and industrial applications.


 


    EMG produces electronically commutated (brushless) motors,
    blowers and pumps that offer long life, reliability and near
    maintenance-free operation. These motor-blower systems and heat
    exchangers are used for thermal management and other
    applications on a wide variety of military and commercial
    aircraft and military ground vehicles, and are used increasingly
    in medical and other applications, in which their long life and
    spark-free and reliable operation is very important. These
    motors provide cooling and ventilation for business machines,
    computers, and mass transit vehicles. In the emerging fuel cell
    market, AMETEK is working closely with many of the leading
    developers of fuel cell technology, to produce blowers and pumps
    specifically developed for these applications.


 


    EMG’s Prestolite switch business produces solenoids and
    other electromechanical devices for the motive and stationary
    power markets. The Prestolite battery charger business
    manufactures high-quality industrial battery chargers for use in
    the materials handling market. Both the switch and battery
    charger businesses have strong market positions and enjoy a
    reputation for high quality and service.


 



    Floor
    Care and Specialty Motor Markets and Products


 


    Approximately 44% of EMG sales are to floor care and specialty
    motor markets, where it has the leading share, through its sales
    of air-moving electric motors to most of the world’s major
    floor care OEMs, including vertically integrated OEMs that
    produce some of their own motors. EMG produces motor-blowers for
    a full range of floor care products, ranging from hand-held,
    canister, and upright vacuums to central vacuums for residential
    use. High-performance vacuum motors also are marketed for
    commercial and industrial applications.


 


    The Company also manufactures a variety of specialty motors used
    in a wide range of products, such as household and personal care
    appliances; fitness equipment; electric materials handling
    vehicles; and sewing machines. Additionally, its products are
    used in outdoor power equipment, such as electric chain saws,
    leaf blowers, string trimmers and power washers.


 


    EMG has been successful in directing a portion of its global
    floor care marketing at vertically integrated vacuum cleaner
    manufacturers, who seek to outsource all or part of their motor
    production. By purchasing their motors from EMG, these customers
    are able to realize economic and operational advantages by
    reducing or discontinuing their own motor production and
    avoiding the capital investment required to keep their motor
    manufacturing current with changing technologies and market
    demands.


 


    EMG has focused its new product development efforts on
    minimizing costs and enhancing motor-blower performance through
    advances in power, efficiency, size, weight, and quieter
    operation. Among its latest advances are the
    ADVANTEKtm
    series of universal vacuum motors that incorporate design and
    construction techniques that lower cost while improving
    operating efficiency and reliability; the
    Air-Watttm
    Series of commercial motor-blowers, whose advanced design
    translates directly into higher performance and energy savings
    for end users; and ACUSTEK
    Plustm
    low-noise commercial vacuum motors.


 



    Customers


 


    EMG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss
    of that customer would have a material adverse effect on
    EMG’s operations. Approximately 9% of EMG’s sales for
    2005 were made to its five largest customers.


 



    Marketing


 


    The Company’s marketing efforts generally are organized and
    carried out at the division level. EIG makes significant use of
    distributors and sales representatives in marketing its
    products, as well as direct sales in some of its more
    technically sophisticated products. Within aerospace, its
    specialized customer base of aircraft and jet engine



    
    8



Table of Contents




    manufacturers is served primarily by direct sales engineers.
    Given the technical nature of many of its products as well as
    its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts most of its
    domestic and international marketing activities through a direct
    sales force and makes some use of sales representatives and
    distributors both in the United States and in other countries.


 



    Competition


 


    In general, most of the Company’s markets are highly
    competitive. The principal elements of competition for the
    Company’s products are price, product technology,
    distribution, quality, and service.


 


    In the markets served by EIG, the Company believes that it ranks
    among the leading U.S. producers of certain measuring and
    control instruments. It also is a leader in the
    U.S. heavy-vehicle instrumentation and power instrument
    markets and one of the leading instrument and sensor suppliers
    to the commercial aviation market. Competition remains strong
    and can intensify for certain EIG products, especially its
    pressure gauge and heavy-vehicle instrumentation. Both of these
    businesses have several strong competitors. In the process and
    analytical instruments market, numerous companies in each
    specialized market compete on the basis of product quality,
    performance and innovation. The aerospace and power instrument
    businesses have a number of diversified competitors, which vary
    depending on the specific market niche.


 


    EMG’s differentiated businesses have competition from a
    limited number of companies in each of their markets.
    Competition is generally based on product innovation,
    performance and price. There also is competition from
    alternative materials and processes. In its cost-driven
    businesses, EMG has limited domestic competition in the
    U.S. floor care market from independent manufacturers.
    Competition is increasing from Asian motor manufacturers that
    serve both the U.S. and the European floor care markets.
    Increasingly, global vacuum motor production is being shifted to
    Asia where AMETEK has a weaker market position. There is
    potential competition from vertically integrated manufacturers
    of floor care products that produce their own motor-blowers.
    Many of these manufacturers would also be potential EMG
    customers if they decided to outsource their motor production.


 



    Backlog
    and Seasonal Variations of Business


 


    The Company’s approximate backlog of unfilled orders by
    business segment at the dates specified below was as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


    December 31,


 




 


 


    2005


 


 


    2004


 


 


    2003


 




 


 


    (In millions)


 



 





    Electronic Instruments
    



 


    $


    216.0


 


 


    $


    155.9


 


 


    $


    139.3


 





    Electromechanical
    



 


 


    224.7


 


 


 


    185.0


 


 


 


    146.9


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total
    



 


    $


    440.7


 


 


    $


    340.9


 


 


    $


    286.2


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    The higher backlog at December 31, 2005 was primarily due
    to the three businesses acquired in 2005, as well as increased
    order rates, primarily in the Company’s differentiated
    businesses.


 


    Of the total backlog of unfilled orders at December 31,
    2005, approximately 89% is expected to be shipped by
    December 31, 2006. The Company believes that neither its
    business as a whole, nor either of its operating segments, is
    subject to significant seasonal variations, although certain
    individual operations experience some seasonal variability.


 



    Availability
    of Raw Materials


 


    The Company’s business segments obtain raw materials and
    supplies from a variety of sources, and generally from more than
    one supplier. However, for EMG, certain items, including various
    base metals and certain steel components, are available only
    from a limited number of suppliers. The Company believes its
    sources and supplies of raw materials are adequate for its needs.



    
    9



Table of Contents





    Research,
    Product Development and Engineering


 


    The Company is committed to research, product development, and
    engineering activities that are designed to identify and develop
    potential new and improved products or enhance existing
    products. Research, product development, and engineering costs
    before customer reimbursement were $75.9 million,
    $66.0 million and $56.1 million, in 2005, 2004 and
    2003, respectively. Customer reimbursements in 2005, 2004 and
    2003 were $8.9 million, $6.2 million and
    $6.2 million, respectively. These amounts included net
    Company-funded research and development expenses of
    $34.8 million, $25.5 million and $21.4 million,
    respectively. All such expenditures were directed toward the
    development of new products and processes, and the improvement
    of existing products and processes.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    Information with respect to environmental matters is set forth
    on page 27 of this report in the section of
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations entitled “Environmental
    Matters.”


 



    Patents,
    Licenses and Trademarks


 


    The Company owns numerous unexpired U.S. patents and
    foreign patents, including counterparts of its more important
    U.S. patents, in the major industrial countries of the
    world. The Company is a licensor or licensee under patent
    agreements of various types, and its products are marketed under
    various registered and unregistered U.S. and foreign trademarks
    and trade names. However, the Company does not consider any
    single patent or trademark, or any group thereof, essential
    either to its business as a whole or to either of its business
    segments. The annual royalties received or paid under license
    agreements are not significant to either of its business
    segments or to the Company’s overall operations.


 



    Employees


 


    At December 31, 2005, the Company employed approximately
    9,800 people in its EMG, EIG and corporate operations, of whom
    approximately 2,800 employees were covered by collective
    bargaining agreements. The Company has two collective bargaining
    agreements that will expire in 2006, which cover less than 100
    employees. The Company expects no material adverse effects from
    the pending labor contract negotiations.


 



    Working
    Capital Practices


 


    The Company does not have extraordinary working capital
    requirements in either of its business segments. Customers
    generally are billed at normal trade terms, which may include
    extended payment provisions. Inventories are closely controlled
    and maintained at levels related to production cycles, and are
    responsive to the normal delivery requirements of customers.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    You should consider carefully the following risk factors and all
    other information contained in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and the documents we incorporate by reference in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our
    business, results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.


 



    Our
    growth strategy includes strategic acquisitions. We may not be
    able to consummate future acquisitions, to successfully
    integrate recent and future acquisitions or to finance future
    acquisitions.


 


    A portion of our growth has been attributed to acquisitions of
    strategic businesses. Since the beginning of 2002, we have
    completed nine acquisitions. We plan to continue making
    strategic acquisitions to enhance our global market position and
    broaden our product offerings. Although we have been successful
    with our acquisition strategies in the past, our ability to
    effectuate acquisitions will be dependent upon a number of
    factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates;






    
    10



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increased competition for acquisitions, which may increase
    acquisition costs and affect our ability to consummate
    acquisitions on favorable terms;



 


     
        • 

    
    Successfully integrating acquired businesses, including
    integrating the financial, technological and management
    processes, procedures and controls of the acquired businesses
    with those of our existing operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    Financing for acquisitions not being available on terms
    acceptable to us, or at all;



 


     
        • 

    
    U.S. and foreign competition laws and regulations affecting our
    ability to make certain acquisitions;



 


     
        • 

    
    Unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of
    acquired businesses;



 


     
        • 

    
    Mitigating assumed, contingent and unknown liabilities; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity
    and complexity of our operations.





 


    The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing
    operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and
    may require additional financial resources and attention from
    management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing
    development or expansion of our existing operations. Failure to
    continue with our acquisition strategy and the successful
    integration of acquired businesses could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and
    financial condition.


 



    We may
    experience unanticipated
    start-up
    expenses and production delays in opening new
    facilities.


 


    Certain of our businesses are relocating, or have recently
    relocated, manufacturing operations to low-cost locales.
    Unanticipated
    start-up
    expenses and production delays in opening new facilities, as
    well as possible underutilizations of our existing facilities,
    could result in product inefficiencies, which would adversely
    affect our business and operations.


 



    Our
    substantial international sales and operations are subject to
    customary risks associated with international
    operations.


 


    International sales for 2005 and 2004 represented approximately
    46% and 44% of our total net sales, respectively. As a result of
    our growth strategy, we anticipate that the percentage of sales
    outside the United States will continue to increase in the
    future. International operations are subject to the customary
    risks of operating in an international environment, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions;



 


     
        • 

    
    Overlap of different tax structures;



 


     
        • 

    
    Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in tariffs and trade barriers;



 


     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including
    changes in the relative value of currencies in the countries
    where we operate, subjecting us to exchange rate exposures;



 


     
        • 

    
    Restrictions on currency repatriation;



 


     
        • 

    
    General economic conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    Unstable political situations; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Compliance with a wide variety of international and
    U.S. export laws and regulatory requirements.





 



    If we
    are unable to develop new products on a timely basis, it could
    adversely affect our business and prospects.


 


    We believe that our future success depends, in part, on our
    ability to develop on a timely basis technologically advanced
    products that meet or exceed appropriate industry standards.
    Although we believe we have certain technological and other
    advantages over our competitors, maintaining such advantages
    will require us to continue



    
    11



Table of Contents




    investing in research and development and sales and marketing.
    There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources
    to make such investments, that we will be able to make the
    technological advances necessary to maintain such competitive
    advantages, or that we can recover major research and
    development expenses. We are not currently aware of any emerging
    standards or new products, which could render our existing
    products obsolete, although there can be no assurance that this
    will not occur or that we will be able to develop and
    successfully market new products.


 



    A
    shortage or price increases in our raw materials could increase
    our operating costs.


 


    We have multiple sources of supplies for our major raw material
    requirements and we are not dependent on any one supplier;
    however, certain items, including base metals and certain steel
    components, are available only from a limited number of
    suppliers. Shortages in raw materials or price increases
    therefore could affect the prices we charge, our operating costs
    and our competitive position, which could adversely affect our
    business, results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.


 



    Certain
    environmental risks may cause us to be liable for costs
    associated with hazardous or toxic substance
    clean-up
    which may adversely affect our financial
    condition.


 


    Our business, operations and facilities are subject to a number
    of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and
    occupational health and safety laws and regulations concerning,
    among other things, air emissions, discharges to waters and the
    use, manufacturing, generation, handling, storage,
    transportation and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes.
    Environmental risks are inherent in many of our manufacturing
    operations. Certain laws provide that a current or previous
    owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of
    investigating, removing and remediating hazardous materials at
    such property, regardless of whether the owner or operator knew
    of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous
    materials. In addition, the Comprehensive Environmental
    Response, Compensation and Liability Act generally imposes joint
    and several liability for
    clean-up
    costs, without regard to fault, on parties contributing
    hazardous substances to sites designated for
    clean-up
    under the Act. We have been named a potentially responsible
    party at several sites, which are the subject of
    government-mandated clean-ups. As the result of our ownership
    and operation of facilities that use, manufacture, store, handle
    and dispose of various hazardous materials, we may incur
    substantial costs for investigation, removal, remediation and
    capital expenditures in connection with compliance with
    environmental laws. While it is not possible to quantify the
    potential financial impact of pending environmental matters,
    based on our experience to date, we believe that the outcome of
    these matters is not likely to have a material adverse effect on
    our financial position or future results of operations. In
    addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of
    existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously
    unknown contamination or the imposition of new
    clean-up
    requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis
    for new or increased liabilities that could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations. There can be no assurance that future
    environmental liabilities will not occur or that environmental
    damages due to prior or present practices will not result in
    future liabilities.


 



    We are
    subject to numerous governmental regulations, which may be
    burdensome or lead to significant costs.


 


    Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local and
    foreign governmental laws and regulations. In addition, existing
    laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, and new
    laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us.
    We cannot predict the impact any of these will have on our
    business or operations.


 



    We may
    be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with
    alleged or actual harm caused by our products.


 


    We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product
    liability claims in the event that the use of our products is
    alleged to have resulted in harm to others or to property. For
    example, our operations expose us to potential liabilities for
    personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an
    aircraft component that has been designed, manufactured or
    serviced by us. We may incur significant liability if product
    liability lawsuits against us



    
    12



Table of Contents




    are successful. While we believe our current general liability
    and product liability insurance is adequate to protect us from
    future claims, we cannot assure that coverage will be adequate
    to cover all claims that may arise. Additionally, we may not be
    able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an
    acceptable cost. Any liability not covered by insurance or for
    which third-party indemnification is not available could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    We
    operate in a highly competitive industry, which may adversely
    affect our results of operations or ability to expand our
    business.


 


    Our markets are highly competitive. We compete, domestically and
    internationally, with individual producers as well as with
    vertically integrated manufacturers, some of which have
    resources greater than we do. The principal elements of
    competition for our products are price, product technology,
    distribution, quality and service. EMG’s competition in
    specialty metal products stems from alternative materials and
    processes. In the markets served by EIG, although we believe EIG
    is a market leader, competition is strong and could intensify.
    In the pressure gauge, aerospace and heavy-vehicle markets
    served by EIG, a limited number of companies compete on the
    basis of product quality, performance and innovation. Our
    competitors may develop new, or improve existing products that
    are superior to our products or may adapt more readily to new
    technologies or changing requirements of our customers. There
    can be no assurance that our business will not be adversely
    affected by increased competition in the markets in which it
    operates or that our products will be able to compete
    successfully with those of our competitors.


 



    A
    prolonged downturn in the aerospace and defense, heavy-vehicle,
    process instrumentation or electric motor businesses could
    adversely affect our business.


 


    Several of the industries in which we operate may be cyclical in
    nature and may be affected by factors beyond our control. A
    prolonged downturn in the aerospace and defense, heavy-vehicle,
    process instrumentation or electric motor businesses could have
    an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    Restrictions
    contained in our revolving credit facility may limit our ability
    to incur additional indebtedness.


 


    Our existing revolving credit facility contains restrictive
    covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur
    indebtedness. These restrictions could limit our ability to
    effectuate future acquisitions or restrict our financial
    flexibility.


 



    Our
    goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial
    amount on our balance sheet and write-off of such substantial
    goodwill and intangible assets could have a negative impact on
    our financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets,
    primarily goodwill. At December 31, 2005, goodwill and
    other intangible assets totaled approximately $900 million,
    or about 50% of our total assets. The goodwill results from our
    acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair
    value of the tangible assets we have acquired. At a minimum
    annually, we assess whether there has been an impairment in the
    value of our intangible assets. If future operating performance
    at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly
    below current levels, we could be required to record a non-cash
    charge to operating earnings for goodwill impairment, under
    current applicable accounting rules. Any determination requiring
    the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized other
    intangible assets would negatively affect our financial
    condition and results of operations.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B