Item 1A. Risk Factors).


 


    The Company’s international sales increased 22% in 2007 to
    $1,053.7 million, representing 49% of total sales in 2007
    compared with 48% in 2006. The increase was driven by both
    internal growth and acquisitions. The Company increased export
    sales of products manufactured in the United States as well as
    sales from overseas operations.



    
    5



 





    Description
    of Business


 


    The products and markets of each reportable segment are
    described below:


 



    EIG


 


    EIG is comprised of a group of differentiated businesses. EIG
    applies its specialized market focus and technology to
    manufacture instruments used for testing, monitoring and
    calibration for the process, aerospace, industrial and power
    markets. EIG’s growth is based on the four strategies
    outlined in AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan. EIG designs
    products that, in many instances, are significantly different
    from, or technologically better than, competing products. It has
    reduced costs by implementing operational improvements,
    achieving acquisition synergies, improving supply chain
    management, moving production to low-cost locales and reducing
    headcount. EIG is among the leaders in many of the specialized
    markets it serves, including aerospace engine sensors,
    heavy-vehicle instrument panels, analytical instrumentation,
    level measurement products, power instruments and pressure
    gauges. It has joint venture operations in Japan, China and
    Taiwan. Approximately 54% of EIG’s 2007 sales were to
    markets outside the United States.


 


    EIG employs approximately 5,400 people, of whom
    approximately 700 are covered by collective bargaining
    agreements. EIG has 45 manufacturing facilities: 29 in
    the United States, seven in the United Kingdom, four in Germany,
    one in France, one in Austria, one in Denmark, one in South
    America and one in Canada. EIG also shares manufacturing
    facilities with EMG in Mexico.


 



    Process
    and Analytical Instrumentation Markets and Products


 


    Approximately 66% of EIG sales are from instruments for process
    and analytical measurement and analysis. These include: oxygen,
    moisture, combustion and liquid analyzers; emission monitors;
    spectrometers; mechanical and electronic pressure sensors and
    transmitters; radiation measurement devices; level measurement
    devices; precision pumping systems; and force-measurement and
    materials testing instrumentation. EIG’s focus is on the
    process industries, including oil, gas and petrochemical
    refining, power generation, specialty gas production, water and
    waste treatment, natural gas distribution, and semiconductor
    manufacturing. AMETEK’s analytical instruments are also
    used for precision measurement in a number of other applications
    including radiation detection for Homeland Security, materials
    analysis and nanotechnology research.


 


    Cameca, acquired in August 2007, manufactures high-end elemental
    analysis systems used in advanced laboratory research,
    semiconductor and nanotechnology applications. Cameca’s
    instruments measure the elemental and isotopic composition of
    micro- or nanovolumes at the surface or below the surface of a
    solid object. This extremely sensitive technology can measure
    atoms down to the part per billion level. The customer base,
    which is very diverse, includes semiconductor labs,
    semiconductor manufacturers and academic, governmental and
    industrial labs engaged in advanced research in nanotechnology,
    metals and nuclear science.


 


    Land Instruments, acquired in June 2006, offers a full range of
    on-line optical temperature measurement instrumentation for
    industrial applications, including spot thermometers, line
    scanners and thermal imagers. These instruments, which measure
    temperatures up to 3000 degrees Celsius, are widely used by the
    metal, glass and mineral processing industries. The addition of
    Land Instruments’ high-temperature monitoring and control
    systems expands AMETEK’s on-line process monitoring
    capabilities, adding to our existing strengths in gas analysis
    for environmental applications.


 


    Precitech, acquired in November 2006, designs and manufactures
    ultraprecise single-point and
    multi-axis
    diamond turning machining systems for applications requiring
    nanometric levels of accuracy. Its acquisition broadens our
    product offering for rapidly growing nanotechnology
    applications. Its products complement those of Taylor Hobson,
    which is a leading manufacturer of ultraprecision measurement
    instrumentation.


 



    Power and
    Industrial Instrumentation Markets and Products


 


    Approximately 17% of EIG sales are to the power and industrial
    instrumentation markets.



    
    6



 




    EIG is a leader in the design and manufacture of power
    measurement and recording instrumentation used by the electric
    power and manufacturing industries. Those products include power
    transducers and meters, event and transient recorders,
    annunciators and alarm monitoring systems used to measure,
    monitor and record variables in the transmission and
    distribution of electric power. EIG’s Solidstate Controls
    designs and manufactures uninterruptible power supply systems
    for the process and power generation industries. EIG also
    manufactures sensor systems for land-based gas turbines and for
    boilers and burners used by the utility, petrochemical, process,
    and marine industries worldwide.


 


    EIG’s vehicular information systems business is a leading
    North American manufacturer of dashboard instruments for heavy
    trucks, and is also among the major suppliers of similar
    products for construction vehicles. It has strong product
    development capability in solid-state instruments that primarily
    monitor engine operating parameters. Through its NCC business,
    EIG has a leading position in the food service instrumentation
    market and is a primary source for stand-alone and integrated
    timing controls for the food service industry.


 


    California Instruments, acquired in December 2007, is a leader
    in programmable alternating current (AC) power sources used to
    test electrical and electronic products.


 


    Pulsar, acquired in February 2006, is a supplier of power line
    carrier systems for relay communications equipment and fully
    integrated multiplexer systems for general power and
    telecommunication applications. This equipment provides
    communications between power substations for the protective
    relays on electric power lines to facilitate their operation and
    provide critical feedback on the faults and functioning of the
    electric transmission grid.


 



    Aerospace
    Instrumentation Markets and Products


 


    Approximately 17% of EIG sales are from aerospace products.
    AMETEK’s aerospace products are designed to customer
    specifications and are manufactured to stringent operational and
    reliability requirements. Its aerospace business operates in
    specialized markets, where its products have a technological
    and/or cost
    advantage. Acquisitions have complemented and expanded
    EIG’s core sensor and transducer product line, used in a
    wide range of aerospace applications.


 


    Aerospace products include: airborne data systems; turbine
    engine temperature measurement products; vibration-monitoring
    systems, indicators and displays; fuel and fluid measurement
    products; sensors; switches; cable harnesses; and transducers.
    EIG serves all segments of commercial aerospace, including
    helicopters, business jets, commuter aircraft, and commercial
    airliners, as well as the military market.


 


    Among its more significant competitive advantages are EIG’s
    50-plus years of experience as an aerospace supplier and its
    long-standing customer relationships with global commercial
    aircraft Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). Its customers
    are the leading producers of airframes and jet engines. It also
    serves the commercial aerospace aftermarket with spare part
    sales and repair and overhaul services.


 


    Advanced Industries, Inc. (“Advanced”), acquired in
    June 2007, manufactures starter generators, brush and brushless
    motors, vane-axial and centrifugal blowers for cabin
    ventilation, and linear actuators for the business jet, light
    jet and helicopter markets. These differentiated products
    complement our AMPHION product line of power management products
    for the aerospace industry and will broaden our product offering
    in the power management subsystem market.


 


    B&S Aircraft Parts & Accessories
    (“B&S”), also acquired in June 2007, provides
    third-party MRO services, primarily for starter generators and
    hydraulic and fuel system components, for a variety of business
    aircraft and helicopter applications.


 



    Customers


 


    EIG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss
    of that customer would have a material adverse effect on
    EIG’s operations. Approximately 12% of EIG’s 2007
    sales were made to its five largest customers, and no one
    customer accounted for 10% or more of 2007 consolidated sales.



    
    7



 





    EMG


 


    EMG is among the leaders in many of the specialized markets it
    serves, including highly engineered motors, blowers, fans, heat
    exchangers, connectors, and other electromechanical products or
    systems for commercial and military aerospace applications,
    defense, medical equipment, business machines and computers and
    other power or industrial applications. In its cost-driven motor
    business, the Company believes that EMG is the world’s
    largest producer of high-speed, air-moving electric motors for
    OEMs of floor care products. EMG designs products that, in many
    instances, are significantly different from, or technologically
    better than, competing products. It has reduced costs by
    implementing operational improvements, achieving acquisition
    synergies, improving supply chain management, moving production
    to low-cost locales and reducing headcount. Approximately 43% of
    EMG’s 2007 sales were to customers outside the United
    States.


 


    EMG employs approximately 5,600 people, of whom
    approximately 2,200 are covered by collective bargaining
    agreements (including some that are covered by local unions). It
    has 42 manufacturing facilities: 24 in the United States, eight
    in the United Kingdom, three in France, two in Italy, two in
    Mexico, one in China, one in the Czech Republic, and one in
    Brazil.


 



    Differentiated
    Businesses


 


    Differentiated businesses account for an increasing proportion
    of EMG’s overall sales base. Differentiated businesses
    represented 69% of EMG’s sales in 2007 and are comprised of
    the engineered materials, interconnects and packaging businesses
    and the technical motors and systems businesses.


 



    Engineered
    Materials, Interconnects and Packaging Markets and
    Products


 


    Approximately 29% of EMG sales are engineered materials,
    interconnects and packaging products. AMETEK is an innovator and
    market leader in specialized metal powder, strip, wire, and
    bonded products. It produces stainless steel and nickel clad
    alloys; stainless steel, cobalt, and nickel alloy powders; metal
    strip; specialty shaped and electronic wire; and advanced metal
    matrix composites used in electronic thermal management. Its
    products are used in automotive, appliance, medical and
    surgical, aerospace, telecommunications, marine and general
    industrial applications. Its niche market focus is based upon
    proprietary manufacturing technology and strong customer
    relationships.


 


    Hamilton Precision Metals, Inc. (“Hamilton”), acquired
    in June 2007, produces precision metal strip and foil for niche
    markets such as metals used in medical implant devices and
    surgical instruments, electronic components and measurement
    devices for aerospace and other industrial markets.


 


    SCP, acquired in April 2007, produces undersea electrical
    interconnect subsystems for the global submarine market. It adds
    to the Company’s position in highly engineered hermetically
    sealed electrical interconnects and microelectronic packaging
    used to protect sophisticated electronics in aerospace, defense,
    telecommunications and industrial applications.


 



    Technical
    Motors and Systems Markets and Products


 


    Technical motors and systems, representing 40% of EMG’s
    2007 sales, consist of brushless motors, blowers and pumps as
    well as other electromechanical systems. These products are used
    in aerospace, business machines, computer equipment, defense,
    mass transit vehicles, medical equipment, power, and industrial
    applications.


 


    EMG produces electronically commutated (brushless) motors,
    blowers and pumps that offer long life, reliability and near
    maintenance-free operation. These motor-blower systems and heat
    exchangers are used for thermal management and other
    applications on a wide variety of military and commercial
    aircraft and military ground vehicles, and are used increasingly
    in medical and other applications, in which their long life,
    spark-free and reliable operation is very important. These
    motors provide cooling and ventilation for business machines,
    computers, and mass transit vehicles. In the emerging fuel cell
    market, AMETEK is working closely with many of the leading
    developers of fuel cell technology to produce blowers and pumps
    specifically developed for these applications.



    
    8



 




    EMG’s Prestolite switch business produces solenoids and
    other electromechanical devices for the motive and stationary
    power markets. The Prestolite battery charger business
    manufactures high-quality industrial battery chargers for use in
    the materials handling market. Both the switch and battery
    charger businesses have strong market positions and enjoy a
    reputation for high quality and service.


 


    PennEngineering Motion Technologies, acquired in May 2006, is a
    leading designer and manufacturer of highly engineered motors
    for niche applications in the data storage, medical, electronic
    equipment, factory automation and aviation markets.


 


    Southern Aeroparts Inc., acquired in December 2006, enabled the
    Company to establish a meaningful presence in the third-party
    MRO business providing repair and overhaul services on
    hydraulic, pneumatic and electromechanical components. These
    include power control units, hydraulic actuators, hydraulic
    flight controls, cargo handling systems, fans and blowers,
    airframe and power actuation systems.


 


    Umeco R&O, acquired in November 2007, provides an extensive
    array of MRO services for electrical and electronic equipment,
    fluid power devices, hydraulic components, actuation systems,
    landing gear, wheels and brakes, and safety equipment. Umeco
    R&O operates from multiple locations in the United Kingdom
    and Toulouse, France.


 



    Floor
    Care and Specialty Motor Markets and Products


 


    Approximately 31% of EMG sales are to floor care and specialty
    motor markets, where it has the leading share, through its sales
    of air-moving electric motors to most of the world’s major
    floor care OEMs, including vertically integrated OEMs that
    produce some of their own motors. EMG produces motor-blowers for
    a full range of floor care products, ranging from hand-held,
    canister, and upright vacuums to central vacuums for residential
    use. High-performance vacuum motors also are marketed for
    commercial and industrial applications.


 


    The Company also manufactures a variety of specialty motors used
    in a wide range of products, such as household and personal care
    appliances; fitness equipment; electric materials handling
    vehicles; and sewing machines. Additionally, its products are
    used in outdoor power equipment, such as electric chain saws,
    leaf blowers, string trimmers and power washers.


 


    EMG has been successful in directing a portion of its global
    floor care marketing at vertically integrated vacuum cleaner
    manufacturers, who seek to outsource all or part of their motor
    production. By purchasing their motors from EMG, these customers
    are able to realize economic and operational advantages by
    reducing or discontinuing their own motor production and
    avoiding the capital investment required to keep their motor
    manufacturing current with changing technologies and market
    demands.


 


    EMG focuses its new product development on reducing costs and
    achieving performance enhancements from its motors and
    motor-blowers. The latest generations of ADVANTEK II and
    INFIN-A-TEK
    vacuum motors incorporate environmentally friendly features,
    including innovations in fan design, materials and assembly
    techniques that allow for higher performance, greater
    efficiency, reduced noise, long life and better indoor air
    quality.


 



    Customers


 


    EMG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss
    of that customer would have a material adverse effect on
    EMG’s operations. Approximately 14% of EMG’s sales for
    2007 were made to its five largest customers, and no one
    customer accounted for 10% or more of 2007 consolidated sales.


 



    Marketing


 


    The Company’s marketing efforts generally are organized and
    carried out at the division level. EIG makes significant use of
    distributors and sales representatives in marketing its
    products, as well as direct sales in some of its more
    technically sophisticated products. Within aerospace, its
    specialized customer base of aircraft and jet engine
    manufacturers is served primarily by direct sales engineers.
    Given the technical nature of many of its products as well as
    its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts most of its
    domestic and international marketing



    
    9



 




    activities through a direct sales force and makes some use of
    sales representatives and distributors both in the United States
    and in other countries.


 



    Competition


 


    In general, most of the Company’s markets are highly
    competitive. The principal elements of competition for the
    Company’s products are price, product technology,
    distribution, quality, and service.


 


    In the markets served by EIG, the Company believes that it ranks
    among the leading U.S. producers of certain measuring and
    control instruments. It also is a leader in the
    U.S. heavy-vehicle instrumentation and power instrument
    markets and one of the leading instrument and sensor suppliers
    to the commercial aviation market. Competition remains strong
    and can intensify for certain EIG products, especially its
    pressure gauge and heavy-vehicle instrumentation products. Both
    of these businesses have several strong competitors. In the
    process and analytical instruments market, numerous companies in
    each specialized market compete on the basis of product quality,
    performance and innovation. The aerospace and power instrument
    businesses have a number of diversified competitors, which vary
    depending on the specific market niche.


 


    EMG’s differentiated businesses have competition from a
    limited number of companies in each of their markets.
    Competition is generally based on product innovation,
    performance and price. There also is competition from
    alternative materials and processes. In its cost-driven
    businesses, EMG has limited domestic competition in the
    U.S. floor care market from independent manufacturers.
    Competition is increasing from Asian motor manufacturers that
    serve both the U.S. and the European floor care markets.
    Increasingly, global vacuum motor production is being shifted to
    Asia where AMETEK has a smaller but growing market position.
    There is potential competition from vertically integrated
    manufacturers of floor care products that produce their own
    motor-blowers. Many of these manufacturers would also be
    potential EMG customers if they decided to outsource their motor
    production.


 



    Backlog
    and Seasonal Variations of Business


 


    The Company’s approximate backlog of unfilled orders by
    business segment at the dates specified below was as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    December 31,


 




 


 


    2007


 


 


    2006


 


 


    2005


 




 


 


    (In millions)


 



 





    Electronic Instruments



 


    $


    314.1


 


 


    $


    248.2


 


 


    $


    216.0


 





    Electromechanical



 


 


    374.1


 


 


 


    288.6


 


 


 


    224.7


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


    $


    688.2


 


 


    $


    536.8


 


 


    $


    440.7


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    The higher backlog at December 31, 2007 was primarily due
    to the seven businesses acquired in 2007, as well as increased
    order rates, primarily in the Company’s differentiated
    businesses.


 


    Of the total backlog of unfilled orders at December 31,
    2007, approximately 85% is expected to be shipped by
    December 31, 2008. The Company believes that neither its
    business as a whole, nor either of its reportable segments, is
    subject to significant seasonal variations, although certain
    individual operations experience some seasonal variability.


 



    Availability
    of Raw Materials


 


    The Company’s reportable segments obtain raw materials and
    supplies from a variety of sources, and generally from more than
    one supplier. However, for EMG, certain items, including various
    base metals and certain steel components, are available only
    from a limited number of suppliers. The Company believes its
    sources and supplies of raw materials are adequate for its needs.



    
    10



 





    Research,
    Product Development and Engineering


 


    The Company is committed to research, product development, and
    engineering activities that are designed to identify and develop
    potential new and improved products or enhance existing
    products. Research, product development, and engineering costs
    before customer reimbursement were $102.9 million,
    $87.6 million and $75.9 million, in 2007, 2006 and
    2005, respectively. Customer reimbursements in 2007, 2006 and
    2005 were $7.1 million, $6.4 million and
    $8.9 million, respectively. These amounts included
    net Company-funded
    research and development expenses of $52.9 million,
    $42.0 million and $34.8 million, respectively. All
    such expenditures were directed toward the development of new
    products and processes, and the improvement of existing products
    and processes.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    Information with respect to environmental matters is set forth
    on pages
    32-33 of
    this report in the section of Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    entitled “Environmental Matters”.


 



    Patents,
    Licenses and Trademarks


 


    The Company owns numerous unexpired U.S. patents and
    foreign patents, including counterparts of its more important
    U.S. patents, in the major industrial countries of the
    world. The Company is a licensor or licensee under patent
    agreements of various types, and its products are marketed under
    various registered and unregistered U.S. and foreign
    trademarks and trade names. However, the Company does not
    consider any single patent or trademark, or any group thereof,
    essential either to its business as a whole or to either of its
    business segments. The annual royalties received or paid under
    license agreements are not significant to either of its
    reportable segments or to the Company’s overall operations.


 



    Employees


 


    At December 31, 2007, the Company employed approximately
    11,300 people in its EMG, EIG and corporate operations, of
    whom approximately 2,900 employees were covered by
    collective bargaining agreements. The Company has four
    collective bargaining agreements that will expire in 2008, which
    cover less than 250 employees. The Company expects no
    material adverse effects from the pending labor contract
    negotiations.


 



    Working
    Capital Practices


 


    The Company does not have extraordinary working capital
    requirements in either of its reportable segments. Customers
    generally are billed at normal trade terms, which may include
    extended payment provisions. Inventories are closely controlled
    and maintained at levels related to production cycles, and are
    responsive to the normal delivery requirements of customers.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    You should consider carefully the following risk factors and all
    other information contained in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and the documents we incorporate by reference in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect
    our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.


 



    Our
    growth strategy includes strategic acquisitions. We may not be
    able to consummate future acquisitions or successfully integrate
    recent and future acquisitions.


 


    A portion of our growth has been attributed to acquisitions of
    strategic businesses. Since the beginning of 2004, we have
    completed 17 acquisitions. We plan to continue making strategic
    acquisitions to enhance our global market position and broaden
    our product offerings. Although we have been successful with our
    acquisition strategies in the past, our ability to successfully
    effectuate acquisitions will be dependent upon a number of
    factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates;






    
    11



 



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The impact of increased competition for acquisitions, which may
    increase acquisition costs and affect our ability to consummate
    acquisitions on favorable terms and may result in us assuming a
    greater portion of the seller’s liabilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Successfully integrating acquired businesses, including
    integrating the financial, technological and management
    processes, procedures and controls of the acquired businesses
    with those of our existing operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Adequate financing for acquisitions being available on terms
    acceptable to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    U.S. and foreign competition laws and regulations affecting
    our ability to make certain acquisitions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of
    acquired businesses;




 



     
        • 

    
    Mitigating assumed, contingent and unknown liabilities; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity
    and complexity of our operations.





 


    The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing
    operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and
    may require additional financial resources and attention from
    management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing
    development or expansion of our existing operations.
    Furthermore, even if successfully integrated, the acquired
    business may not achieve the results we expected or produce
    expected benefits in the time frame planned. Failure to continue
    with our acquisition strategy and the successful integration of
    acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.


 



    We may
    experience unanticipated
    start-up
    expenses and production delays in opening new facilities or
    product line transfers.


 


    Certain of our businesses are relocating, or have recently
    relocated manufacturing operations to low-cost locales.
    Unanticipated
    start-up
    expenses and production delays in opening new facilities or
    completing product line transfers, as well as possible
    underutilization of our existing facilities, could result in
    production inefficiencies, which would adversely affect our
    business and operations.


 



    Our
    substantial international sales and operations are subject to
    customary risks associated with international
    operations.


 


    International sales for 2007 and 2006 represented approximately
    49% and 48% of our total net sales, respectively. As a result of
    our growth strategy, we anticipate that the percentage of sales
    outside the United States will increase in the future.
    International operations are subject to the customary risks of
    operating in an international environment, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Overlap of different tax structures;




 



     
        • 

    
    Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in tariffs and trade barriers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including
    changes in the relative value of currencies in the countries
    where we operate, subjecting us to exchange rate exposures;




 



     
        • 

    
    Restrictions on currency repatriation;




 



     
        • 

    
    General economic conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Unstable political situations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Nationalization of assets; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Compliance with a wide variety of international and
    U.S. laws and regulatory requirements.






    
    12



 



 



    Our
    international sales and operations may be adversely impacted by
    compliance with export laws.


 


    We are required to comply with various import, export, export
    control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our
    transactions with certain customers, business partners and other
    persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our
    employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export
    control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the
    export of certain products, services and technologies, and in
    other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export
    license before exporting a controlled item. In addition, failure
    to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil
    and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions
    to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export
    products and services, and damage to our reputation.


 



    Any
    inability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of
    skilled officers and other employees could impede our ability to
    compete successfully.


 


    If we cannot hire, train and retain a sufficient number of
    qualified employees, we may not be able to effectively integrate
    acquired businesses and realize anticipated performance results
    from those businesses, manage our expanding international
    operations, and otherwise profitably grow our business. Even if
    we do hire and retain a sufficient number of employees, the
    expense necessary to attract and motivate these officers and
    employees may adversely affect our results of operations.


 



    If we
    are unable to develop new products on a timely basis, it could
    adversely affect our business and prospects.


 


    We believe that our future success depends, in part, on our
    ability to develop on a timely basis technologically advanced
    products that meet or exceed appropriate industry standards.
    Although we believe we have certain technological and other
    advantages over our competitors, maintaining such advantages
    will require us to continue investing in research and
    development and sales and marketing. There can be no assurance
    that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments,
    that we will be able to make the technological advances
    necessary to maintain such competitive advantages, or that we
    can recover major research and development expenses. We are not
    currently aware of any emerging standards or new products, which
    could render our existing products obsolete, although there can
    be no assurance that this will not occur or that we will be able
    to develop and successfully market new products.


 



    A
    shortage of, or price increases in, our raw materials could
    increase our operating costs.


 


    We have multiple sources of supplies for our major raw material
    requirements and we are not dependent on any one supplier;
    however, certain items, including base metals and certain steel
    components, are available only from a limited number of
    suppliers and are subject to commodity market fluctuations.
    Shortages in raw materials or price increases therefore could
    affect the prices we charge, our operating costs and our
    competitive position, which could adversely affect our business,
    results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.


 



    Certain
    environmental risks may cause us to be liable for costs
    associated with hazardous or toxic substance
    clean-up
    which may adversely affect our financial
    condition.


 


    Our businesses, operations and facilities are subject to a
    number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and
    occupational health and safety laws and regulations concerning,
    among other things, air emissions, discharges to waters and the
    use, manufacturing, generation, handling, storage,
    transportation and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes.
    Environmental risks are inherent in many of our manufacturing
    operations. Certain laws provide that a current or previous
    owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of
    investigating, removing and remediating hazardous materials at
    such property, regardless of whether the owner or operator knew
    of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous
    materials. In addition, the Comprehensive Environmental
    Response, Compensation and Liability Act generally imposes joint
    and several liability for
    clean-up
    costs, without regard to fault, on parties contributing
    hazardous substances to sites designated for
    clean-up
    under the Act. We have been named a potentially responsible
    party at several sites, which are the subject of
    government-mandated
    clean-ups.
    As the result of our ownership and operation of facilities that
    use, manufacture, store, handle



    
    13



 




    and dispose of various hazardous materials, we may incur
    substantial costs for investigation, removal, remediation and
    capital expenditures related to compliance with environmental
    laws. While it is not possible to precisely quantify the
    potential financial impact of pending environmental matters,
    based on our experience to date, we believe that the outcome of
    these matters is not likely to have a material adverse effect on
    our financial position or future results of operations. In
    addition, new laws and regulations, new classification of
    hazardous materials, stricter enforcement of existing laws and
    regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination
    or the imposition of new
    clean-up
    requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis
    for new or increased liabilities that could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations. There can be no assurance that future
    environmental liabilities will not occur or that environmental
    damages due to prior or present practices will not result in
    future liabilities.


 



    We are
    subject to numerous governmental regulations, which may be
    burdensome or lead to significant costs.


 


    Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local and
    foreign governmental laws and regulations. In addition, existing
    laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, and new
    laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us.
    We cannot predict the impact any of these will have on our
    business or operations.


 



    We may
    be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with
    alleged or actual harm caused by our products.


 


    We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product
    liability claims in the event that the use of our products is
    alleged to have resulted in harm to others or to property. For
    example, our operations expose us to potential liabilities for
    personal injury or death as a result of the failure of, for
    example, an aircraft component that has been designed,
    manufactured or serviced by us. We may incur significant
    liability if product liability lawsuits against us are
    successful. While we believe our current general liability and
    product liability insurance is adequate to protect us from
    future claims, we cannot assure that coverage will be adequate
    to cover all claims that may arise. Additionally, we may not be
    able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an
    acceptable cost. Any liability not covered by insurance or for
    which third-party indemnification is not available could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    We
    operate in highly competitive industries, which may adversely
    affect our results of operations or ability to expand our
    business.


 


    Our markets are highly competitive. We compete, domestically and
    internationally, with individual producers as well as with
    vertically integrated manufacturers, some of which have
    resources greater than we do. The principal elements of
    competition for our products are price, product technology,
    distribution, quality and service. EMG’s competition in
    specialty metal products stems from alternative materials and
    processes. In the markets served by EIG, although we believe EIG
    is a market leader, competition is strong and could intensify.
    In the pressure gauge, aerospace and heavy-vehicle markets
    served by EIG, a limited number of companies compete on the
    basis of product quality, performance and innovation. Our
    competitors may develop new, or improve existing products that
    are superior to our products or may adapt more readily to new
    technologies or changing requirements of our customers. There
    can be no assurance that our business will not be adversely
    affected by increased competition in the markets in which it
    operates or that our products will be able to compete
    successfully with those of our competitors.


 



    A
    prolonged downturn in the aerospace and defense, process
    instrumentation or electric motor businesses could adversely
    affect our business.


 


    Several of the industries in which we operate are cyclical in
    nature and therefore are affected by factors beyond our control.
    A prolonged downturn in the aerospace and defense, process
    instrumentation or electric motor businesses could have an
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.



    
    14



 





    Restrictions
    contained in our revolving credit facility and other debt
    agreements may limit our ability to incur additional
    indebtedness.


 


    Our existing revolving credit facility and other debt agreements
    contain restrictive covenants, including restrictions on our
    ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions
    could limit our ability to effectuate future acquisitions or
    restrict our financial flexibility.


 



    Our
    goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial
    amount of our total assets and write-off of such substantial
    goodwill and intangible assets could have a negative impact on
    our financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets,
    primarily goodwill. At December 31, 2007, goodwill and
    other intangible assets totaled approximately
    $1,358 million, or about 49% of our total assets. The
    goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess
    of cost over the fair value of the net tangible and other
    identifiable intangible assets we have acquired. At a minimum,
    we assess annually whether there has been impairment in the
    value of our intangible assets. If future operating performance
    at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly
    below current levels, we could reflect, under current applicable
    accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for
    goodwill or other intangible asset impairment. Any determination
    requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or
    other intangible assets would negatively affect our financial
    condition and results of operations.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B