Item 1A. Risk
Factors

We face a variety of risk
factors that are substantial and inherent in our business, including market,
liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are
some of the more important factors that could affect our business.

Our financial results depend on equity market returns
and the investment performance of our Affiliates.

The investment management
contracts of our Affiliates typically provide for payment based on the market
value of assets under management, and payments will be adversely affected by
declines in the equity markets. In addition, certain of our Affiliates’
investment management contracts include fees based on investment performance relative
to a specified benchmark and, as such, are directly dependent upon investment
results which may vary substantially from year to year. Unfavorable market
performance, fluctuations in the prices of specific securities, asset
withdrawals or other changes in the investment 


 10 






patterns
of our Affiliates’ clients may reduce our Affiliates’ assets under management,
which in turn may adversely affect the fees payable to our Affiliates and,
ultimately, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.

Our growth strategy depends upon continued growth from
our existing Affiliates or upon our making new investments in mid-sized
investment management firms.

Our Affiliates may not be able to maintain their
respective levels of performance or contribute to our growth at their
historical levels or at currently anticipated levels. Also, our Affiliates may
be unable to carry out their management succession plans, which may adversely
affect their operations and revenue streams.

The success of our
investment program will depend upon our ability to find suitable firms in which
to invest and our ability to negotiate agreements with such firms on acceptable
terms. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in finding or investing
in such firms or that they will have favorable operating results following our
investment, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Our Affiliates’ businesses are highly regulated.

Many aspects of our
Affiliates’ businesses are subject to extensive regulation by various U.S.
federal regulatory authorities, certain state regulatory authorities and
non-U.S. regulatory authorities. We cannot ensure that our Affiliates will
fulfill all applicable regulatory requirements. If we or any of our Affiliates
were to be named as a subject of an investigation or other regulatory action,
the public announcement and potential publicity surrounding any such
investigation or action could have a material adverse effect on our stock price
and financial condition even if we (or our Affiliates) were found not to have
committed any violation of the securities laws or other misconduct. The failure
of any Affiliate to satisfy regulatory requirements could subject that
Affiliate to sanctions that might materially impact the Affiliate’s business
and our business. Moreover, any changes in laws or regulatory requirements, or
the interpretation or application of such laws and regulatory requirements by
regulatory authorities, could have a material adverse impact on our
profitability and mode of operations.

Our Affiliates’ international operations are subject
to foreign risks, including political, regulatory, economic and currency risks.

Some of our Affiliates
operate offices or advise clients outside of the United States, and several
affiliated investment management firms, are based outside the United States.
Accordingly, we and our current and any prospective affiliated investment
management firms that have foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in
doing business internationally, in addition to the risks our business faces
more generally. These risks may include changes in applicable laws and
regulatory requirements, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign
operations, longer payment cycles, difficulties in collecting investment
advisory fees receivable, different, and in some cases, less stringent legal,
regulatory and accounting regimes, political instability, fluctuations in
currency exchange rates, expatriation controls, expropriation risks and
potential adverse tax consequences. These or other foreign risks may have an
adverse effect both on our Affiliates and on our consolidated business,
financial condition and results of operations.

Our Affiliates’ autonomy limits our ability to alter
their management practices and policies, and we may be held responsible for
liabilities incurred by them.

Although our agreements
with our Affiliates typically give us the authority to control and/or vote with
respect to certain of their business activities, we generally are not directly
involved in managing our Affiliates’ day-to-day activities, including
investment management policies and procedures, fee levels, 


 11 






marketing
and product development, client relationships, employment and compensation
programs and compliance activities. As a consequence, our financial condition
and results of operations may be adversely affected by problems stemming from
the day-to-day operations of our Affiliates.

Some of our Affiliates are
partnerships or limited liability companies of which we are, or an entity
controlled by us is, the general partner or manager member. Consequently, to
the extent that any of these Affiliates incur liabilities or expenses that
exceed its ability to pay for them, we may be directly or indirectly liable for
their payment. In addition, with respect to each of our Affiliates, we may be
held liable in some circumstances as a control person for the acts of the
Affiliate or its employees. While we and our Affiliates maintain errors and
omissions and general liability insurance in amounts believed to be adequate to
cover certain potential liabilities, we cannot be certain that we will not have
claims that exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, that the
insurers will remain solvent and will meet their obligations to provide
coverage or that insurance coverage will continue to be available to us and our
Affiliates with sufficient limits and at a reasonable cost. A judgment against
any of our Affiliates and/or us in excess of available insurance coverage could
have a material adverse effect on the Affiliate and/or us.

The failure to receive regular distributions from our
Affiliates would adversely affect us, and our holding company structure results
in substantial structural subordination that may affect our ability to make
payments on our obligations.

Because we are a holding company, we receive cash distributions
from our Affiliates. An Affiliate’s payment of distributions to us may be
subject to claims by the Affiliate’s creditors and to limitations applicable to
the Affiliate under federal and state laws, including securities and bankruptcy
laws, and any applicable non-U.S. laws. Additionally, an Affiliate may default
on some or all of the distributions that are payable to us. As a result, we
cannot guarantee that we will always receive these distributions from our
Affiliates. The failure to receive the distributions to which we are entitled
under our agreements with our Affiliates would adversely affect us, and may
affect our ability to make payments on our obligations.

Our right to receive any
assets of our Affiliates or subsidiaries upon their liquidation or
reorganization, and thus the right of the holders of securities issued by us to
participate in those assets, typically would be subordinated to the claims of
that entity’s creditors. In addition, even if we were a creditor of any of our
Affiliates or subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to
any security interest and indebtedness that is senior to us.

The agreed-upon expense allocation under our revenue
sharing arrangements with our Affiliates may not be large enough to pay for all
of the respective Affiliate’s operating expenses.

Our Affiliates have
generally entered into agreements with us under which they have agreed to pay
us a specified percentage of their respective gross revenue, while retaining a
percentage of revenue for use in paying that Affiliate’s operating expenses. We
may not anticipate and reflect in those agreements possible changes in the
revenue and expense base of any Affiliate, and the agreed-upon expense
allocation may not be large enough to pay for all of an Affiliate’s operating
expenses. We may elect to defer the receipt of our share of an Affiliate’s
revenue to permit the Affiliate to fund such operating expenses, or we may
restructure our relationship with an Affiliate with the aim of maximizing the
long-term benefits to us, but we cannot be certain that any such deferral or
restructured relationship would be of any greater benefit to us. Such a
deferral or restructured relationship might have an adverse effect on our
near-term or long-term profitability and financial condition.

Historically, equity markets and our common stock have
been volatile.

The market price of our
common stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience high
volatility, and the broader equity markets have experienced and may again
experience significant price 


 12 






and
volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of
securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating
performance and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In
addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, changes in
general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other
developments affecting us, our Affiliates or our competitors could cause the
market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.

The sale or issue of substantial amounts of our common
stock could adversely impact the price of our common stock.

The sale of substantial
amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely impact its
price. In connection with our financing activities, we issued securities that
are convertible into shares of our common stock either upon the occurrence of
certain events or, in the case of our mandatory convertible securities, upon
the passage of time. The number of shares of our common stock to be issued will
primarily be determined by the price of our common stock at the time of
conversion or settlement of an underlying forward purchase contract. Upon the
conversion of the securities, and especially if we were required to issue the
maximum number of shares of common stock issuable under our outstanding
convertible securities, a significant number of additional shares of our common
stock would be sold in the public market. As of December 31, 2006, if the
aggregate number of shares issuable under the convertible securities were
issued, an additional 15.1 million shares of our common stock would be
outstanding. Moreover, in connection with future financing activities, we may
issue additional convertible securities or shares of our common stock. Also, as
of December 31, 2006, options to purchase 6.4 million shares of our common
stock were exercisable, although 1.2 million of the shares that may be
purchased pursuant to such exercises would be subject to restrictions on
transferability for specified periods. Consequently, any such issuance of
shares of our common stock could have the effect of substantially diluting the
interests of our current equity holders. In the event that a large number of
shares of our common stock are sold in the public market, the price of our
common stock may fall.

The failure to consummate announced investments in new
investment management firms could have an adverse effect on our operating
results and financial condition.

Consummation of our
acquisition transactions is generally subject to a number of closing
conditions, contingencies and approvals, including but not limited to obtaining
certain consents of the investment management firms’ clients. In the event that
an announced transaction is not consummated, we may experience a decline in the
price of our common stock to the extent that the then-current market price
reflects a market assumption that we will complete the announced transaction.
In addition, the fact that a transaction did not close after we announced it
publicly may negatively affect our ability and prospects to consummate
transactions in the future. Finally, we must pay costs related to these
transactions, including legal and accounting fees, even if the transactions are
not completed, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations
and financial condition.

We expect that we will need to raise additional
capital in the future, and existing or future resources may not be available to
us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms.

While we believe that our existing cash resources and
cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs
for normal operations for the foreseeable future, our continuing acquisitions
of interests in new affiliated investment management firms will require
additional capital. We may also need to repurchase some or all of our
outstanding zero coupon senior convertible notes and floating rate senior
convertible securities on various dates, the next of which is in February 2008,
and we have obligations to purchase additional equity in existing Affiliates,
which obligations will be triggered from time to time. These obligations may
require more cash than is then available from operations. Thus, we may need to
raise capital by making additional borrowings or by selling shares of our
common stock or 


 13 






other equity or debt
securities, or to otherwise refinance a portion of these obligations. These
financing activities could increase our interest expense, decrease our net
income and dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. Moreover, we may
not be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, if at all.

Repurchase
Obligations under Zero Coupon Senior Convertible Notes and under Floating Rate
Convertible Senior Debentures.   In May 2001, we issued
$251 million aggregate principal amount at maturity of zero coupon senior
convertible notes due 2021. Following the repurchase and conversion of $129.2
million principal amount of such notes, $121.8 million principal amount at
maturity of zero coupon convertible notes remains outstanding. In May 2011
and 2016, the remaining holders may require us to repurchase all or a portion
of the outstanding zero coupon senior convertible notes at their accreted
value.

In February 2003, we issued $300 million of
floating rate senior convertible debentures due February 2033. The holders
of the convertible debentures may require us to repurchase such securities in February 2008,
2013, 2018, 2023 and 2028, at their principal amount. While we cannot predict
whether or when holders of the notes or the convertible debentures will choose
to exercise their repurchase rights, we believe that they would become more
likely to do so in the event that the price of our common stock is not greater
than certain levels or if interest rates increase, or both. We may choose to
pay the purchase price in cash or in shares of our common stock, or in a
combination of both. We may wish to avoid paying the purchase price in common
stock if we believe that doing so would be unfavorable to existing
shareholders. Therefore, if a substantial portion of the notes or the
convertible debentures were to be submitted for repurchase on any of the
repurchase dates, we might need to use a substantial amount of our available
sources of liquidity for this purpose. Consequently, such repurchase could have
the effect of restricting our ability to fund new acquisitions or to meet other
future working capital needs, as well as increasing our costs of borrowing. We
may seek other means of refinancing or restructuring our obligations under the
notes or the convertible debentures, but this may result in terms less
favorable than those under the existing notes or convertible debentures.

Senior
Revolving Credit Facility.   We entered into an amended and restated senior
revolving credit facility in February 2007, which allows us to borrow up
to $650 million. Subject to the agreement of the lenders to increase their
commitments, we have the option to borrow up to an aggregate of
$800 million under this facility. We have used our credit facility in the
past, and we may do so again in the future, to fund investments in new and
existing Affiliates, refinance other indebtedness, repurchase stock and fund
working capital. As of December 31, 2006, we had $365.5 million
outstanding under our prior credit facility.

Our credit facility will mature in February 2012.
While we intend to obtain a new credit facility prior to that time, we may not
be able to obtain financing on terms comparable to our current credit facility.
Our failure to do so could increase our interest expense, decrease our net
income and adversely affect our ability to fund new investments and otherwise
use our credit facility as described above. We may borrow under our credit
facility only if we continue to meet certain financial tests, including
interest and leverage ratios. In addition, our credit facility contains
provisions for the benefit of our lenders that restrict the manner in which we
can conduct our business, that may adversely affect our ability to make
investments in new and existing Affiliates and that may have an adverse impact
on the interests of our stockholders. Because indebtedness under our credit
facility bears interest at variable rates, in the event we have indebtedness
outstanding under our credit facility, increases in interest rates may increase
our interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability
to meet our debt service obligations and our ability to fund future investments.
Although from time to time we are party to interest rate hedging contracts
designed to offset a portion of our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, we
cannot be certain that this strategy will be effective.

Purchase of Additional
Equity in Our Affiliates.   Most of our agreements
provide Affiliate managers a conditional right that enables them to require us
to purchase additional ownership interests in our 


 14 






Affiliates in
certain circumstances and from time to time. We may pay for these purchases in
cash, shares of our common stock or other forms of consideration. In connection
with these purchases, we may face the financing risks described above.

We have substantial intangibles on our balance sheet,
and any impairment of our intangibles could adversely affect our results of
operations and financial position.

At December 31, 2006,
our total assets were approximately $2.7 billion, of which approximately
$1.7 billion were intangible assets, and approximately $300 million were
equity investments in Affiliates, an amount comprised primarily of intangible
assets. We cannot be certain that we will ever realize the value of such
intangible assets. Acquired client relationships with definite lives are being
amortized, or written off, over a weighted average period of 12 years. If
we were to record an intangible impairment charge, our results of operations
and financial position could be adversely affected.

We and our Affiliates rely on certain key personnel
and cannot guarantee their continued service.

We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and
our other officers and employees. Our executive officers, in particular, play
an important role in the stability and growth of our existing Affiliates and in
identifying potential investment opportunities for us. We do not have
employment agreements with our officers, although each of them has a
significant equity interest, including stock options.

In addition, our Affiliates depend heavily on the
services of key principals, who in many cases have managed their firms for many
years. These principals often are primarily responsible for their firm’s
investment decisions. Although we use a combination of economic incentives,
transfer restrictions and, in some instances, non-solicitation agreements and
employment agreements in an effort to retain key management personnel, there is
no guarantee that these principals will remain with their firms. Moreover,
since certain Affiliates contribute significantly to our revenue, the loss of
key management personnel at these Affiliates could have a disproportionate
adverse impact on our business.

The loss of key management
personnel or an inability to attract, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of
qualified management personnel may adversely affect our business and our
Affiliates’ businesses. The market for investment managers is extremely
competitive and is increasingly characterized by the frequent movement of
investment managers among different firms. In addition, since individual
investment managers at our Affiliates often maintain a strong, personal
relationship with their clients that is based on their clients’ trust in the
manager, the departure of a manager could cause the Affiliate to lose client
accounts, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of
operations and financial condition of both the Affiliate and us.

Our Affiliates’ investment management contracts are
subject to termination on short notice.

Our Affiliates derive
almost all of their revenue from their clients based upon their investment
management contracts with those clients. These contracts are typically
terminable by the client without penalty upon relatively short notice
(typically not longer than 60 days). We cannot be certain that our Affiliates
will be able to retain their existing clients or to attract new clients. If our
Affiliates’ clients withdraw a substantial amount of funds, it is likely to
harm our results.

Our industry is highly competitive.

Through our Affiliates, we compete with a broad range
of investment managers, including public and private investment advisors, firms
associated with securities broker/dealers, financial institutions, insurance
companies and other entities that serve our three principal distribution
channels, many of whom have greater resources. This competition may reduce the
fees that our Affiliates can obtain for their services. We believe that our
Affiliates’ ability to compete effectively with other firms in our three
distribution 


 15 






channels depends upon our
Affiliates’ products, investment performance and client-servicing
capabilities, and the marketing and distribution of their investment products.
Our Affiliates may not compare favorably with their competitors in any or all
of these categories. From time to time, our Affiliates also compete with each
other for clients.

The market for
acquisitions of interests in investment management firms is highly competitive.
Many other public and private financial services companies, including
commercial and investment banks, insurance companies and investment management
firms, which may have significantly greater resources than we do, also invest
in or buy investment management firms. We cannot guarantee that we will be able
to compete effectively with such companies, that new competitors will not enter
the market or that such competition will not make it more difficult or not
feasible for us to make new investments in investment management firms.

Item 1B