.Risk Factors We and our Affiliates face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including markets, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are some of the more important factors that could affect our and our Affiliates’ businesses.  Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements.”Our financial results depend on the receipt of investment management fees by our Affiliates, which are impacted by market returns and investment performance.Investment management fees are typically based on the market value of assets under management, and fees will be adversely affected by declines in the capital markets and in the equity markets in particular. In certain instances, our Affiliates are paid fees based on investment performance on an absolute basis or relative to a benchmark and, as such, are directly dependent upon investment results that may vary substantially from year to year.  Unfavorable market performance and volatility in the capital markets or in the prices of specific securities may impact the ability to market products and services and reduce our assets under management, which in turn may adversely affect the fees payable to our Affiliates and, ultimately, our results of operations and financial condition.  These factors may also impact the ability to market products and services available through AMG Funds, which in turn may adversely affect the fees payable to us and our Affiliates.  Additionally, global economic conditions, exacerbated by changes in the equity or debt marketplaces, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, financial crises, war, terrorism, natural disasters or other factors that are difficult to predict affect equity markets and the levels of our assets under management.  Because our assets under management are largely concentrated in equity products, our financial results are particularly susceptible to downturns in the equity markets, or a decline in the assets invested in the equity markets.Our growth strategy depends upon the continued growth of our existing Affiliates and upon making investments in new boutique investment management firms or additional investments in existing Affiliates.Our Affiliates may not maintain their respective levels of performance or contribute to our growth at their historical or currently anticipated levels. Also, our Affiliates may be unable to carry out their management succession plans, which may adversely affect their operations and revenue streams and thus our results of operations.The continued success of our investment program will depend upon our ability to find suitable firms in which to invest or make additional investments in existing Affiliates, our ability to negotiate agreements with such firms on acceptable terms, and our ability to raise the capital necessary to finance such transactions. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in making investments in such firms or that they will have favorable operating results following our investment, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our financial results would be adversely affected by any reduction in our assets under management, and may be impacted by changes in the relative levels of assets under management among our Affiliates.Investment management fees are primarily based on a percentage of the value of assets under management, and vary with the nature of the account or product managed.  Any decrease in the total level of our assets under management generally, as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets, including due to exchange rate fluctuations or net outflows, would reduce our revenue and profitability.  Through our Affiliates, we primarily manage active return-oriented products, rather than indexing strategies, exchange traded funds, fixed income or money market products, all of which generally carry lower fee rates.  Changes in investor risk tolerance or investment preferences could result in investor allocations away from active return-oriented products or adversely impact our Affiliates’ ability to maintain existing advisory relationships and fee structures.  Additionally, our structured partnership interests are tailored to meet the needs of each Affiliate and are therefore varied, and our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected by changes in the relative performance and the relative levels of assets under management among our Affiliates, independent of overall effective fee rates and our total level of assets under management.  Further, certain Affiliates contribute significantly to our earnings and therefore declines in the market value of assets or net outflows at such Affiliates could have a disproportionate adverse impact on our earnings.  Fluctuations in the amount and mix of our assets under management may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control.  Any decrease in the level of our assets under management or adverse changes in the mix among our Affiliates could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.Historically, equity markets and our common stock have been volatile.The market price of our common stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience volatility, and the broader equity markets have experienced and may again experience significant price and volume fluctuations. In addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, including changes in net client cash flows and aggregate assets under 8Table of Contentsmanagement, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our Affiliates or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.If our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business and financial results.Our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of our Affiliates and our stockholders.  Our reputation is critical to our business and is vulnerable to threats that may be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate.  For example, failure to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, errors in our public reports or litigation against us or any of our Affiliates, or the publicity surrounding these events, even if satisfactorily addressed, could adversely impact our reputation, our relationships with our Affiliates and our ability to negotiate agreements with boutique investment management firms, as well as negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.     Our and our Affiliates’ businesses are highly regulated.Our and our Affiliates’ businesses are subject to complex and extensive regulation by various regulatory and self-regulatory authorities and exchanges in jurisdictions around the world, as detailed in “Government Regulation” in Item 1. These laws and regulations impose requirements, restrictions and limitations on our and our Affiliates’ businesses, and compliance with these laws and regulations results in significant cost and expense.  If we or any of our Affiliates were to fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations or be named as a subject of an investigation or other regulatory action, the public announcement and potential publicity surrounding any such investigation or action could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and result in increased costs even if we or our Affiliates were found not to have violated such laws, rules or regulations. The failure to satisfy regulatory requirements could subject us or our Affiliates to civil liability, criminal liability or sanctions that might materially impact our or our Affiliates’ businesses. Further, some of these laws and regulations limit the types of activities in which we or our Affiliates may engage, and any failure to manage our respective businesses to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and to avoid becoming subject to additional regulations could have a material adverse effect on our and our Affiliates’ businesses.  As investment advisers, our Affiliates and AMG Funds are subject to numerous obligations, fiduciary duties and other regulatory requirements, where non-compliance could result in censure or termination of adviser status, litigation or reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and results of operations.  In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which represented a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services regulatory environment, continues to drive federal agencies to implement numerous new rules, which may impose additional restrictions and limitations on our and our Affiliates’ businesses as they are adopted.  Rulemaking proposed by the SEC in 2015 may create additional reporting requirements for advisers and funds, and additional requirements for mutual funds in the areas of liquidity management and the use of derivatives.  If adopted as proposed, the derivatives rule could negatively impact our Affiliates’ ability to manage certain products and impose additional compliance and operational costs. Changes in laws or regulatory requirements, or the interpretation or application of such laws and regulatory requirements by regulatory authorities, can occur without notice and could have a material adverse impact on our and our Affiliates’ financial results and mode of operations. Globally, proposals have called for more stringent regulation of the financial services industry in which we and our Affiliates operate, which may make it more likely that changes will occur that could adversely affect our and our Affiliates’ businesses, our access to capital and the market for our common stock. Regulators continue to consider whether asset managers or funds, or certain asset management products or activities, should be designated as systemically important, and therefore subject to additional regulation.  In the United Kingdom and Europe, our and our Affiliates’ businesses may be impacted by financial services reform initiatives enacted or under consideration in the European Union. These new laws and regulations may also result in increased compliance costs and expenses, and non-compliance may result in fines and penalties.Our and our Affiliates’ international operations are subject to foreign risks, including political, regulatory, economic and currency risks.We and certain of our Affiliates operate offices or advise clients outside the U.S., and several Affiliates are based outside the U.S. Accordingly, we and certain of our Affiliates are subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally, in addition to the risks our businesses face more generally. These risks may include changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, difficulties in collecting investment advisory fees receivable, different, and in some cases, less stringent legal, regulatory and accounting regimes, political instability, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, expatriation controls, expropriation risks and potential adverse tax consequences. In addition, we and certain of our Affiliates are required to maintain minimum levels of capital, and such capital requirements may be increased from time to time, which may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of 9Table of Contentsintercompany loans and payment of distributions to us by these Affiliates. These or other risks related to our and our Affiliates’ non-U.S. operations may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Failure to comply with the applicable laws, rules, regulations, codes, directives, notices or guidelines in any jurisdiction outside of the U.S. could result in a wide range of penalties and disciplinary actions, including fines, censures and the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could adversely affect our or our Affiliates’ reputations and operations. Regulators in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede the ability to offer our Affiliates’ investment products and services in their respective markets, or we or our Affiliates may be unable to keep up with, or adapt to, the ever changing, complex regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions or markets, which could further negatively impact our business.Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income-based taxes in both the U.S. and various jurisdictions outside of the U.S. and are subject to ongoing tax audits in such jurisdictions and may be subject to future tax audits. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes and/or penalties and interest.  There can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our financial condition. Further, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate or have a significant impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. Congress and other government agencies in jurisdictions in which we do business have maintained a focus on the taxation of multinational companies.  For example, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, which represents a coalition of member countries, is contemplating changes to numerous international tax principles through its base erosion and profit-shifting project, including interest deductibility, transfer pricing and eligibility for the benefits of double tax treaties, which could increase tax uncertainty and costs. In addition, proposals for fundamental U.S. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could change the amount of taxes we are required to pay and have a significant impact on our financial condition.Our Affiliates’ autonomy limits our ability to alter their management practices and policies, and we may be held responsible for liabilities incurred by certain of them.Although our agreements with our Affiliates typically give us the authority to control and/or vote with respect to certain of their business activities, we generally are not directly involved in managing our Affiliates’ day-to-day activities, including investment management policies and procedures, fee levels, marketing, product development, client relationships, employment and compensation programs and compliance activities. As a consequence, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by problems stemming from the day-to-day operations of our Affiliates, where weaknesses or failures in internal processes or systems or other operational challenges could lead to a disruption of our Affiliates’ operations, liability to their clients, exposure to disciplinary action or reputational harm.Some of our Affiliates are limited liability companies or limited partnerships (or equivalent non-U.S. forms) of which we, or entities controlled by us, are the general partner or managing member. Consequently, to the extent that any of these Affiliates incur liabilities or expenses that exceed their ability to pay for them, we may be directly or indirectly liable for their payment.  Similarly, an Affiliate’s payment of distributions to us may be subject to claims by potential creditors, and an Affiliate may default on distributions that are payable to us. In addition, with respect to each of these Affiliates, we may be held liable in some circumstances as a control person for the acts of the Affiliate or its employees. Our Affiliates also may face various claims, litigation or complaints from time to time and we cannot predict the eventual outcome of such matters or whether any matters could become material to a particular Affiliate or us in any reporting period.  While we and our Affiliates maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance in amounts believed to be adequate to cover certain potential liabilities, we cannot be certain that we will not have claims that exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, that the insurers will remain solvent and will meet their obligations to provide coverage or that insurance coverage will continue to be available to us and our Affiliates with sufficient limits and at a reasonable cost. A judgment in excess of available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The agreed-upon expense allocation under our structured partnership interests in which we share in the Affiliate’s revenue without regard to expenses may not be large enough to pay for all of the respective Affiliate’s operating expenses.In the case of our typical structured partnership interests, such Affiliates have agreed to pay us a specified percentage of their respective revenue, while using the remainder of revenue to pay that Affiliate’s operating expenses and for distributions to Affiliate management. We may not anticipate and reflect in those agreements possible changes in the revenue and operating 10Table of Contentsexpense base of any Affiliate, and the revenue remaining after our specified percentage may not be large enough to pay for all of an Affiliate’s operating expenses. While our distributions generally have priority, we may elect to defer the receipt of our share of an Affiliate’s revenue to permit the Affiliate to fund such operating expenses, or we may restructure our relationship with an Affiliate with the aim of maximizing the long-term benefits to us, but we cannot be certain that any such deferral or restructured relationship would be of any greater benefit to us. Such a deferral or restructured relationship may have an adverse effect on our near-term or long-term financial condition and results of operations.When our structured partnership interest is calculated by reference to the Affiliate’s revenue less certain agreed-upon expenses, we have direct exposure to fluctuations in revenue and operating expenses.In the case of our structured partnership interests that are calculated by reference to an Affiliate’s revenue less certain agreed-upon expenses, we are allocated a set percentage of the Affiliate’s revenue net of the agreed categories of expenses, thereby participating in any increases or decreases in both revenue and the expenses that are included in the calculation. This structure allows us to benefit from any decrease in the expenses that are included in the calculation, but also exposes us directly to any increase in such expenses, which we may not anticipate and which could be significant. Further, the impact of such decreases and increases in such expenses at these Affiliates on our earnings and our stock price could increase if the portion of our earnings derived from such Affiliates increases.Our industry is highly competitive.Our Affiliates compete with a broad range of domestic and foreign investment management firms, including public and private investment advisors, firms associated with securities broker-dealers, financial institutions, insurance companies, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds and other entities that serve our three principal distribution channels.  This competition may reduce the fees that our Affiliates can obtain for investment management services. We believe that our Affiliates’ ability to compete effectively with other firms in our three distribution channels depends upon our Affiliates’ products, investment performance, reputations, and client-servicing capabilities, and the marketing and distribution of their investment products, among other factors. (See “Competition” in Item 1.) Our Affiliates may not compare favorably with their competitors in any or all of these categories. From time to time, our Affiliates may also compete with each other for clients.  Further, our Affiliates’ ability to compete with other investment management firms also depends, in part, on the relative attractiveness of their investment philosophies, methods under then-prevailing market trends, fees or a combination of these factors.  Our Affiliates represent a diverse group of boutique investment management firms with predominantly active return-oriented products, rather than indexing strategies, exchange traded funds, fixed income or money market products, which generally carry lower fee rates.  Changes in investor risk tolerance or investment preferences could result in investor allocation away from active return-oriented products.The market for acquisitions of interests in boutique investment management firms is highly competitive. Many other public and private financial services companies, including commercial and investment banks, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies and investment management firms, which may have significantly greater resources than we do, also invest in or buy boutique investment management firms.  Further, our innovative partnership approach with our Affiliates is designed to provide enhanced incentives for management owners while enabling us to protect our interests, including through structured partnership interests and long-term employment agreements with key members of the firm.  Target investment management firms may prefer investments in their firms under terms and structures offered by our competitors.  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively with such companies, that new competitors will not enter the market or that such competition will not make it more difficult or not feasible for us to maintain existing investments or to make new investments in boutique investment management firms.The failure to consummate announced investments in new boutique investment management firms could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Consummation of our announced investments are generally subject to a number of closing conditions, contingencies and approvals, including but not limited to obtaining certain consents of the boutique investment management firms’ clients. In the event that an announced transaction is not consummated, we may experience a decline in the price of our common stock to the extent that the then-current market price reflects a market assumption that we will complete the announced transaction. In addition, the fact that a transaction did not close after we announced it publicly may negatively affect our ability and prospects to consummate transactions in the future. Finally, we must pay costs related to these investments, including transaction fees, even if the investments are not completed, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future, and existing or future resources may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms.11Table of ContentsWhile we believe that our existing cash resources and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for normal operations for the foreseeable future, our continuing acquisitions of interests in new boutique investment management firms and existing Affiliates may require additional capital. In addition, we are contingently liable to make additional purchase payments (of up to $252.1 million through 2019) upon the achievement of specified financial targets in connection with certain of our prior acquisitions.  As of December 31, 2015, we expected to make payments of $14.0 million (none in 2016) to settle such obligations.  We also have committed to co-invest in certain investment partnerships, which may be called in future periods.  Subject to certain limitations, majority-owned Affiliate equity interests generally provide holders the conditional right to put equity interests to us over time.  Because these obligations are conditional and dependent upon the individual equity-holder’s decision to sell his or her equity, it is difficult to predict the frequency and magnitude of these repurchases (our Redeemable non-controlling interests balance at December 31, 2015 was $612.5 million). We may also call all or a portion of these equity interests upon, among other events, the termination of an equity holder’s employment, although these rights may be limited or suspended in certain circumstances. These obligations may require more cash than is then available from operations. Thus, we may need to raise capital by making additional borrowings or by selling shares of our common stock or other equity or debt securities, or to otherwise refinance a portion of these obligations.As of December 31, 2015, we had outstanding total debt of $1.9 billion.  Our level of indebtedness may increase if we fund one or more future acquisitions through borrowings under our credit facilities. This additional indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and will require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness.The financing activities described above could increase our interest expense, decrease our Net income (controlling interest) or dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. In addition, our access to further capital, and the cost of capital we are able to access, is influenced by a number of factors, including the state of global credit and equity markets, interest rates, credit spreads and our credit ratings. We are rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. The rating agencies could decide to downgrade our ratings or the entire investment management industry, thereby making it difficult to access capital markets. In addition, a reduction in our credit rating could increase our borrowing costs.Our debt agreements impose certain covenants relating to the conduct of our business, including financial covenants under our credit facilities, and, if amounts borrowed or outstanding under these agreements were subject to accelerated repayment, we may not have sufficient assets or liquidity to repay such amounts in full.Our credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio, and also contain customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, place certain limitations on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur debt, merge or transfer assets and on our ability to create liens. The indentures governing our senior notes also contain restrictions on our ability to merge or transfer assets and on our ability to create liens. The breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or, in the case of financial covenants, due to a significant and prolonged market driven decline in our operating results) could result in a default under the applicable debt agreement. In the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facilities could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us.  Further, in the event of certain defaults, amounts borrowed under the credit facilities and/or outstanding under the senior notes, together with accrued interest and other fees, could become immediately due and payable. If any indebtedness under the credit facilities or the indentures governing the senior notes was subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full.We have substantial intangibles on our balance sheet, and any impairment of our intangibles could adversely affect our results of operations.At December 31, 2015, our total assets were $7.8 billion, of which $4.4 billion were intangible assets, and $1.9 billion were equity method investments in Affiliates, an amount comprised primarily of intangible assets. We cannot be certain that we will realize the value of such intangible assets. An impairment of our intangible assets or an other than temporary decline in the value of our equity investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We and our Affiliates rely on certain key personnel and cannot guarantee their continued service.We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and our other officers and employees. Our executive officers, in particular, play an important role in the stability and growth of our existing Affiliates and in identifying potential investment opportunities for us. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers, although each has a significant deferred equity interest in the Company and is subject to non-solicitation and non-competitive restrictions that may be triggered upon their departure.  However, there is no guarantee that these officers will remain with the Company.12Table of ContentsIn addition, our Affiliates depend heavily on the services of key principals, who in many cases have managed their firms for many years. These principals often are primarily responsible for their firm’s investment decisions. Although we use a combination of economic incentives, transfer restrictions and, in some instances, non-solicitation agreements and employment agreements in an effort to retain key management personnel, there is no guarantee that these principals will remain with their firms.  Since certain Affiliates contribute significantly to our revenue, the loss of key management personnel at these Affiliates could have a disproportionate adverse impact on our business.Our or our Affiliates’ controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our or our Affiliates’ risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate, and operational risk could adversely affect our or our Affiliates’ reputation and financial position.We and our Affiliates have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk in our and their businesses. While we currently believe that our and our Affiliates’ operational controls are effective, we cannot provide assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems will always be adequate to identify and manage the internal and external risks in our and our Affiliates’ various businesses. Furthermore, we or our Affiliates may have errors in our business processes or fail to implement proper procedures in operating our businesses, which may expose us or our Affiliates to risk of financial loss or failure to comply with a regulatory requirement.  We and our Affiliates are also subject to the risk that employees or contractors, or other third parties may deliberately seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud or act in ways that are inconsistent with controls, policies and procedures. The financial and reputational impact of control failures can be significant.In addition, our and our Affiliates’ businesses and the markets in which we and our Affiliates operate are continuously evolving.  If our or our Affiliates’ risk framework is ineffective, either because of a failure to keep pace with changes in the financial markets, regulatory requirements, our or our Affiliates’ businesses, counterparties, clients or service providers or for other reasons, we or our Affiliates could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or be out of compliance with applicable regulatory or contractual mandates or expectations.Provisions in our organizational documents, Delaware law and our debt agreements could delay or prevent a change in control of our company.Provisions in our charter and by-laws and anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control in the Company.  These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to replace our current management without the consent of our Board of Directors. Provisions in our charter and by-laws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control include:•the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the terms, rights and preferences of the preferred stock without stockholder approval; and•the prohibition on the right of stockholders to call meetings or act by written consent and limitations on the right of stockholders to present proposals or make nominations at stockholder meetings.Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock.  In addition, our credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes contain various covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets.  Further, given our permanent partnership approach, which is designed to preserve our Affiliates’ investment and operational autonomy and independence, a change in control may also be viewed negatively by our Affiliates, impacting their relationship with us.  These anti-takeover provisions and other factors may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price in our common stock, and may result in negative impacts on our financial results in periods following a change of control.The sale or issuance of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely impact the price of our common stock.The sale or issuance of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely impact its price. In connection with our financing activities, we have issued securities and entered into contracts, including our junior convertible trust preferred securities and forward equity agreements, that may result in the issuance of our common stock upon the occurrence of certain events. We also have exercisable options outstanding and unvested restricted stock that have been awarded under our share-based incentive plans.  Additionally, we have the right to settle certain Affiliate equity repurchase obligations with shares of our common stock.  Moreover, in connection with future financing activities, we may issue 13Table of Contentsadditional convertible securities or shares of our common stock, including through forward equity transactions. Any such issuance of shares of our common stock could have the effect of substantially diluting the interests of our current equity holders. In the event that a large number of shares of our common stock are sold in the public market, the price of our common stock may fall.Failure to maintain and properly safeguard an adequate technology infrastructure may limit our or our Affiliates’ growth, result in losses or disrupt our or our Affiliates’ businesses.Our and our Affiliates’ businesses are reliant upon financial, accounting and technology systems and networks to process, transmit and store information, including sensitive client and proprietary information, and to conduct many business activities and transactions with clients, advisors, vendors and other third parties.  The failure to implement, maintain and safeguard an infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of our and our Affiliates’ businesses could impede productivity and growth, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we and our Affiliates rely on third parties for certain aspects of our respective businesses, including financial intermediaries and technology infrastructure and service providers, including brokers, custodians, administrators and other agents, and these parties are also susceptible to similar risks.Although we and our Affiliates take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, computer systems, software, networks and mobile devices, and those of third parties on whom we and our Affiliates rely, may be vulnerable to cyber attacks, breaches, unauthorized access, theft, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If any such events occur, it could jeopardize confidential, proprietary or other sensitive information of ours, our Affiliates and our respective clients, employees or counterparties that may be stored in, or transmitted through, internal or third-party computer systems, networks and mobile devices, or could otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our and our Affiliates’ operations or those of our respective clients or counterparties.  Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of systems and networks, it is possible that we, our Affiliates or third party service providers may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all threats, especially because the techniques used change frequently and can originate from a wide variety of sources.  As a result, we or our Affiliates could experience disruption, significant losses, increased costs, reputational harm, regulatory actions or legal liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  We or our Affiliates may be required to spend significant additional resources to modify protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we or our Affiliates may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against fully or not fully covered through any insurance that we or our Affiliates maintain.Our financial results could be adversely affected by the financial stability of other financial institutions.We and our Affiliates routinely execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial services industry. Historical market volatility highlights the interconnection of the global markets and demonstrates how the deteriorating financial condition of one institution may materially and adversely impact the performance of other institutions. We and our Affiliates may be exposed to credit, operational or other risk in the event that a counterparty with whom we or our Affiliates transact defaults on its obligations, or if there are other unrelated systemic failures in the markets.Investment management contracts are subject to termination on short notice.Through our Affiliates, we derive almost all of our revenue from clients pursuant to investment management contracts. While certain Affiliates’ private equity and alternative products have long-term commitment periods, many of our Affiliates’ investment management contracts are terminable by the client without penalty upon relatively short notice (typically not longer than 60 days) and may not be assignable without consent. We cannot be certain that our Affiliates will be able to retain their existing clients or attract new clients. If their clients withdraw a substantial amount of funds, it is likely to harm our results. In addition, investment management contracts with mutual funds are subject to annual approval by each fund’s board of directors.14Table of ContentsItem 1B