Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our sales depend on
    coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.


 



    Private
    Health Insurance


 


    Employer-sponsored insurance. Employer-sponsored
    insurance currently represents the main pathway by which
    Americans receive private health insurance. Many employers
    provide health insurance as part of employees’ benefit
    packages. Insurance plans are administered by private companies,
    both for-profit and
    not-for-profit,
    and some companies are “self-insured” (i.e., they pay
    for all healthcare costs incurred by employees directly through
    a plan administered by a third party). Generally,
    employer-sponsored insurance premiums are paid primarily by
    employers and secondarily by employees.


 


    Individual market. The individual market covers part
    of the population that is self-employed or retired. In addition,
    it covers some people who are unable to obtain insurance through
    their employers. The plans are administered by private insurance
    companies. Individuals pay
    out-of-pocket
    insurance premiums for coverage, and the benefits vary widely
    according to plan specifications.




    
    19



Table of Contents






    Reimbursement
    of Our Principal Products


 


    Aranesp®,

    Neulasta®

    and
    NEUPOGEN®. Medicare

    and Medicaid payment policies for drugs and biologicals are
    subject to various laws and regulations. The Medicare program
    covers our principal products
    Aranesp®,

    Neulasta®

    and
    NEUPOGEN®

    (as well as certain of our other products including
    Vectibix®,

    Nplate®,

    Prolia®

    and
    XGEVAtm)

    under Part B, when administered in the physician clinic
    setting and the hospital outpatient and dialysis settings.
    Healthcare providers are reimbursed for these products under a
    “buy and bill” process where providers purchase the
    product in advance of treatment and then submit a reimbursement
    claim to Medicare following administration of the product.
    Medicare reimburses providers using a payment methodology based
    on a fixed percentage of each product’s average sales price
    (“ASP”). ASP is calculated by the manufacturer based
    on a statutorily defined formula and submitted to CMS. A
    product’s ASP is calculated and reported to CMS on a
    quarterly basis and therefore may change each quarter. The ASP
    in effect for a given quarter (the “Current Period”)
    is based upon certain historical sales and sales incentive data
    covering a statutorily defined period of time preceding the
    Current Period. CMS publishes the ASPs for products in advance
    of the quarter in which they go into effect so healthcare
    providers will know the applicable reimbursement rates. In the
    calculation of ASP, CMS currently allows manufacturers to make
    reasonable assumptions consistent with the general requirements
    and the intent of the Medicare statute and regulations and their
    customary business practices and in the future CMS may provide
    more specific guidance. Any changes to the ASP calculations
    directly affect the Medicare reimbursement for our products
    administered in the physician clinic setting, hospital
    outpatient setting and, to a lesser extent, the dialysis
    facility setting. (See
    EPOGEN®

    and Dialysis Reimbursement.) Our ASP calculations are reviewed
    quarterly for completeness and based on such review, we have on
    occasion restated our reported ASPs to reflect calculation
    changes both prospectively and retroactively. (See
    Items 1A. Risk Factors — Our sales depend on
    coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.)


 


    Since 2005, in the physician office setting under Medicare
    Part B,
    Aranesp®,

    Neulasta®

    and
    NEUPOGEN®

    have been reimbursed at 106% of their ASP (sometimes referred to
    as “ASP+6%”), and in 2011 will continue to be
    reimbursed at this rate pursuant to the 2011 Medicare Physician
    Fee Schedule Final Rule. In the hospital outpatient
    setting, from 2006 to 2010 Medicare reimbursement rates fell
    incrementally from ASP+6% to ASP+4%, but rose in 2011 to ASP+5%
    pursuant to the 2011 Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment
    Final Rule. CMS has the regulatory authority to further adjust
    formulas in future years. The extent to which commercial payers
    adopt the use of ASP as a payment methodology is often based on
    the contractual relationship between the provider and the
    insurer.


 


    Dialysis Reimbursement.  Currently, dialysis
    providers in the United States are reimbursed for
    EPOGEN®

    primarily by Medicare through the ESRD Program, which is
    established by federal law and implemented by CMS. The ESRD
    Program reimburses Medicare providers for 80% of allowed
    dialysis costs; the remainder is paid by other sources,
    including patients, state Medicaid programs, private insurance,
    and to a lesser extent, state kidney patient programs. Until
    January 1, 2011, Medicare reimbursed for separately
    billable dialysis drugs (including
    EPOGEN®

    and
    Aranesp®)

    administered in both freestanding and hospital-based dialysis
    centers, at ASP+6%, using the same payment amount methodology
    used in the physician clinic setting under Part B. On
    January 1, 2011, CMS’s bundled payment system went
    into effect for dialysis facilities which provides a single
    payment for all dialysis services including drugs, supplies and
    non-routine laboratory tests that were previously reimbursed
    separately. Key provisions under the new system include:


 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    Unit of payment — CMS will provide a per treatment
    unit of payment. Consistent with past policy, ESRD facilities
    can be paid for up to three treatments per week, unless medical
    necessity justifies more frequent treatments.



 



     
        •     

    
    Payment rate — for 2011, the base rate is $229.63 per
    treatment.



 



     
        •     

    
    Oral drugs without intravenous equivalents — oral-only
    drugs, such as
    Sensipar®

    and phosphate binders, will remain under the Medicare
    Part D benefit until 2014 when they will be reimbursed
    under the bundled payment system.







    
    20



Table of Contents





    Dialysis providers were given the choice of opting into the new
    bundled payment system 100% on January 1, 2011, or phasing
    in over a four-year period. Substantially, all dialysis
    providers in the United States have opted into the bundled
    payment system in its entirety.


 


    To encourage dialysis facilities to continue to provide quality
    dialysis treatment under the new bundled payment system, on
    December 29, 2010, CMS issued the Final Rule to implement
    the ESRD Quality Improvement Program (“QIP”). Under
    the QIP, beginning in 2012, ESRD facilities will be subject to a
    payment penalty of up to 2% of amounts reimbursed for failure to
    meet or exceed CMS’ quality performance standards,
    including performance standards related to anemia management and
    dialysis adequacy. Under the QIP, the penalty will be based on a
    composite score of measures as follows:


 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    The percent of Medicare patients with Hb levels below 10 g/dL
    constitutes 50% of the weighting.



 



     
        •     

    
    The percent of Medicare patients with Hb levels above 12 g/dL
    represents 25% of the weighting.



 



     
        •     

    
    The percent of Medicare patients with an average Urea Reduction
    Ratio of greater than or equal to 65% constitutes 25% of the
    weighting.





 


    Notwithstanding the implementation of the QIP in 2012, we expect
    the bundled payment system to decrease dose utilization of
    EPOGEN®

    and that this decrease will have a material adverse impact on
    EPOGEN®

    sales. Further, if CMS issues an NCD for the use of ESAs in
    patients who have kidney disease (see Other ESA Reimbursement
    Developments below), CMS could further adjust the bundled
    payment system
    and/or the
    QIP.


 


    Other ESA Reimbursement Developments. Since April 1,
    2006, Medicare reimbursement for ESAs administered to dialysis
    patients has been subject to a Erythropoietin Monitoring Policy
    (“EMP”), the Medicare payment review mechanism used by
    CMS to monitor
    EPOGEN®

    and
    Aranesp®

    utilization and appropriate hematocrit outcomes of dialysis
    patients. The EMP was revised, effective January 1, 2008,
    requiring a 50% reduction in Medicare reimbursement if a
    patient’s Hb is above 13 g/dL for three or more consecutive
    months. In addition, the revised EMP reduces the monthly dosing
    limits to 400,000 international units (“IUs”) of
    EPOGEN®,

    from 500,000 IUs, and to 1,200 micrograms (“mcgs”) of
    Aranesp®,

    from 1,500 mcgs.


 


    On March 14, 2007, CMS announced a review of all Medicare
    policies related to the administration of ESAs in non-renal
    disease applications as part of an NCA, which is generally
    CMS’ first step toward developing an NCD. As a result of
    that review, CMS initiated an NCD for non-renal ESAs. After
    various CMS proposals and a public comment period, CMS issued a
    final NCD on July 30, 2007. The 2007 NCD determined that
    ESA treatment was not reasonable and necessary for certain
    clinical conditions and established Medicare coverage parameters
    for FDA-approved ESA use in oncology. We believe the
    restrictions in the 2007 NCD changed the way ESAs are used in
    clinical practice, for example, by decreasing the number of
    treated patients, the average ESA dose and the duration of ESA
    therapy. We believe this restriction on coverage of ESAs in the
    2007 NCD has had a material adverse effect on the coverage,
    reimbursement and sales of
    Aranesp®,

    and our business and results of operations. In addition, many
    private payers have implemented portions of the 2007 NCD and we
    believe many healthcare providers have reduced ESA utilization
    for all of their patients regardless of insurance coverage.


 


    On March 24, 2010, CMS held a MEDCAC meeting to examine the
    currently available evidence on the use of ESAs to manage anemia
    in patients who have CKD. Although there was no clear outcome
    from the MEDCAC meeting, on June 16, 2010, CMS opened a new
    NCA to examine the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients with
    CKD and dialysis-related anemia, which is generally CMS’
    first step toward developing an NCD. CMS has stated that the NCA
    process for ESAs will conclude on or before June 16, 2011,
    but CMS could propose a new NCD at any time prior to that
    deadline. Additionally, on January 19, 2011, CMS held
    another MEDCAC meeting, this time to review the available
    evidence on the impact of ESA use on renal transplant graft
    survival.


 


    ENBREL Reimbursement. The majority of prescription claims
    for ENBREL are paid through private insurance companies. Under
    Medicare, ENBREL is reimbursed through the Part D program,
    although less than 10% of all ENBREL U.S. prescriptions are
    reimbursed by Medicare.




    
    21



Table of Contents






    Prolia®

    Reimbursement


 


    We estimate that the majority of potential
    U.S. Prolia®

    patients are covered under Medicare and the remaining under
    commercial plans. Beginning in 2010,
    Prolia®

    has been reimbursed under Medicare Part B through the buy
    and bill process. (See Reimbursement of Our Principal
    Products —
    Aranesp®,

    Neulasta®

    and
    NEUPOGEN®.)

    The buy and bill reimbursement process for
    Prolia®

    has required, and is expected to continue to require, time to
    become established, particularly among primary care physicians
    who may have limited experience using this reimbursement
    process. We expect that U.S. Medicare Part D plans
    will begin to cover
    Prolia®

    in 2011 and that commercial coverage will continue to expand as
    more commercial plans make their decisions about
    Prolia®

    coverage and reimbursement.


 



    Medicaid
    Reimbursement


 


    Since 1991, we have participated in the Medicaid drug rebate
    program established in Section 1927 of the Social Security
    Act by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and
    subsequent amendments of that law. Under the Medicaid drug
    rebate program, we pay a rebate to the states for each unit of
    our product reimbursed by state Medicaid programs. As more fully
    described below, the new healthcare reform law enacted in the
    United States in March 2010 made certain changes in how those
    rebates are calculated and to whom they must be extended. (See
    U.S. Healthcare Reform.) The amount of the rebate
    for each of our products is currently set by law as a minimum of
    23.1% of the Average Manufacturer Price (“AMP”) of
    that product, or if it is greater, the difference between AMP
    and the best price available from us to any non-government
    customer. The rebate amount is determined for each quarter based
    on our reports to CMS of the quarter’s AMP and best price
    for each of our products. The rebate amount also includes an
    inflation adjustment if AMP increases faster than inflation. As
    described below, the statutory definition of AMP changed in 2010
    as a result of the new U.S. healthcare reform law, and we
    expect CMS to shortly issue a proposed rule further defining the
    new AMP definition. Until that rule is issued, we will be
    required to make reasonable assumptions when calculating AMP.
    Once CMS proposed rule is issued, and clarification is provided
    on the calculation of AMP, we will have to determine whether our
    reasonable assumptions need to be amended to comply with the
    regulation’s definition of AMP, and whether we need to
    restate our prior AMPs. The terms of our participation in the
    Medicaid drug rebate program impose an obligation to correct the
    prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary. Any
    such corrections could result in an overage or underage in our
    rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the direction
    of the correction. In addition to retroactive rebates, if we
    were found to have knowingly submitted false information to the
    government, in addition to other penalties available to the
    government, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties in
    the amount of $100,000 per item of false information.


 


    Related to our participation in the Medicaid drug rebate program
    is a requirement that we extend comparable discounts under the
    Public Health Service (“PHS”) drug pricing program to
    a variety of community health clinics and other entities that
    receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as
    hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of Medicare and
    Medicaid beneficiaries. As more fully described below, the list
    of entities to which we are required to extend these discounts
    also expanded as a result of the new healthcare reform law.


 


    We also make our products available to authorized users of the
    Federal Supply Schedule (“FSS”) of the General
    Services Administration. Since 1993, as a result of the Veterans
    Health Care Act of 1992 (the “VHC Act”), federal law
    has required that we offer deeply discounted FSS contract
    pricing for purchases by the Department of Veterans Affairs, the
    Department of Defense, the Coast Guard and the PHS (including
    the Indian Health Service) in order for federal funding to be
    available for reimbursement of our products under the Medicaid
    program or purchase of our products by those four federal
    agencies and certain federal grantees. FSS pricing to those four
    federal agencies must be equal to or less than the Federal
    Ceiling Price (“FCP”), which is 24% below the
    Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price (“Non-FAMP”)
    for the prior fiscal year. The accuracy of our reported
    Non-FAMPs, FCPs and our FSS contract prices may be audited by
    the government under applicable federal procurement laws and the
    terms of our FSS contract. Among the remedies available to the
    government for inaccuracies in calculation of Non-FAMPs and FCPs
    is recoupment of any overcharges to the four specified Federal
    agencies based on those inaccuracies. Also, if we were found to
    have knowingly reported a false Non-FAMP, in addition to other
    penalties available to the government, the VHC Act provides for
    civil monetary penalties of $100,000 per item that is





    
    22



Table of Contents





    incorrect. Finally, we are required to disclose in our FSS
    contract proposal all commercial pricing that is equal to or
    less than our proposed FSS pricing, and subsequent to award of
    an FSS contract, we are required to monitor certain commercial
    price reductions and extend commensurate price reductions to the
    government, under the terms of the FSS contract Price Reductions
    Clause. Among the remedies available to the government for any
    failure to properly disclose commercial pricing
    and/or to
    extend FSS contract price reductions is recoupment of any FSS
    overcharges that may result from such omissions.


 


    U.S. Healthcare Reform. In March 2010, the Patient
    Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”) and
    the companion Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act, which
    made certain changes and adjustments to the PPACA, primarily
    with respect to the PPACA’s financial and budgetary
    impacts, were signed into law. We refer to those two laws
    collectively as the “new healthcare reform law.” The
    new healthcare reform law imposes additional costs on and
    reduces the revenue of companies in the biotechnology and
    pharmaceutical industries. The following paragraphs describe
    certain provisions of the new healthcare reform law that will
    affect the reimbursement of our products.


 


    The new healthcare reform law increased the rebates we pay to
    the states for our products that are covered and reimbursed by
    state Medicaid programs. The healthcare reform law increased the
    minimum base Medicaid rebate rate payable on our products
    reimbursed by Medicaid from 15.1% to 23.1% of the AMP of the
    product, or if it is greater, the difference between the AMP and
    the best price available from us to any non-government customer.
    The change in the minimum rebate percentage was effective on
    January 1, 2010. The healthcare reform law also extended
    the Medicaid drug rebate program to patients in Medicaid managed
    care insurance plans for whom rebates were not previously
    required. The extension of rebates to patients in Medicaid
    managed care plans was effective on March 23, 2010.


 


    As mentioned above, the new healthcare reform law also expanded
    the list of provider institutions to which we must extend
    discounts under the PHS 340B drug pricing program. The new
    healthcare reform law added certain cancer centers,
    children’s hospitals, critical access hospitals and rural
    referral centers to the list of entities to which these
    discounts must be extended. This change to the list of eligible
    entities was effective on January 1, 2010. The healthcare
    reform law also imposed a new fee on manufacturers and importers
    of “branded prescription drugs,” which includes drugs
    approved under section 505(b) of the Federal Food, Drug,
    and Cosmetic Act or biologicals licensed under
    section 351(a) of the Public Health Service Act. Beginning
    in 2011, the new healthcare reform law sets an aggregate annual
    fee, to be paid by these manufacturers and importers, totaling
    $28 billion over 10 years, of which $2.5 billion
    is payable in 2011. This annual fee will be apportioned among
    the participating companies, including us, based on each
    company’s sales of qualifying products to, and utilization
    by, certain U.S. government programs during the preceding
    calendar year. The additional fee became effective
    January 1, 2011, and is not deductible for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes. Manufacturers and
    importers of generic or biosimilar drugs are not subject to the
    fee. We estimate that we will be required to pay
    $150 million to $200 million as our portion of the
    2011 fee.


 


    Since the Medicare Part D drug benefit took effect in 2006,
    beneficiaries enrolled in Part D plans have been required
    to pay 100% of their prescription drug costs after their total
    drug spending exceeds an initial coverage limit until they
    qualify for catastrophic coverage. This coverage gap is
    sometimes referred to as the Part D “doughnut
    hole.” The new healthcare reform law reduces the
    “doughnut hole” by requiring manufacturers like us to
    provide a 50% discount to Medicare Part D patients whose
    prescription expenses exceed the Part D prescription drug
    coverage limit but have not yet reached the catastrophic
    coverage threshold. This provision became effective
    January 1, 2011.


 


    The new healthcare reform law also expands the Medicaid
    eligibility to include those with incomes up to 133% of the
    federal poverty level (“FPL”), from 100% of the FPL.
    This provision becomes effective January 1, 2014.


 


    We estimate that the total impact of U.S. healthcare reform
    in 2011 to us, including the industry fee described above, will
    be in the range of $400 million to $500 million.




    
    23



Table of Contents






    Reimbursement
    Outside the United States


 


    Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the United
    States, government-sponsored healthcare systems have
    traditionally been the primary payers of all healthcare costs,
    including payment for drugs and biologicals. Over the past
    several years, the reimbursement environment in Europe has
    become very challenging, with the advent of Health Technology
    Assessment (“HTA”) organizations (eg, NICE in the UK)
    that make recommendations
    and/or
    determinations of coverage and reimbursement based on both the
    clinical as well as the economic value of a product. Although
    the methods employed by different HTA agencies vary from country
    to country, the use of formal economic metrics has been
    increasing across Europe as well as in several emerging markets
    throughout the world. In addition to determining whether or not
    a new product will be reimbursed, these agencies are becoming
    increasingly involved in setting the maximum price at which the
    product will be reimbursed — the
    “value-based” price for a product.


 


    With increased budgetary constraints, payers in many countries
    employ a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure.
    In some countries, international price referencing is the
    primary mechanism for price control whereby the ceiling price of
    a pharmaceutical or biological product is set based on the
    prices in particular benchmark countries. These price
    referencing rules are increasing in complexity as prices become
    more transparent and payers seek lower-price benchmarks against
    which to compare themselves. Additional cost-containment
    measures can include therapeutic reference pricing (eg, setting
    the reimbursement rate for a given class of agents at the lowest
    price within the class), generic substitution and
    government-mandated price cuts.


 


    While mandatory price reductions have been a recurring aspect of
    business for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in
    the EU, given the current worldwide economic conditions, some EU
    governmental agencies have increased the frequency
    and/or size
    of such mandatory price reductions to extract further cost
    savings. For example, in 2010, countries such as Greece
    announced price reductions
    and/or
    mandated rebates for certain pharmaceutical and biological
    products that substantially exceeded prior levels. Other
    countries may follow
    and/or take
    similar or more extensive actions to reduce expenditures on
    drugs and biologics, including implementing mandatory price
    reductions, establishing preferences for biosimilar products, or
    reducing the amount of reimbursement.


 


    In many countries, the influence of regional and hospital payers
    also contributes to whether patients have access to certain
    products. For example, a product may be successfully listed on a
    national formulary, but may also be subject to further
    evaluations or competitive bidding by payers at a regional or
    hospital level. Finally, payers in some countries are beginning
    to experiment with alternative payment mechanisms (eg, payment
    caps) as a means to maintain access to innovative therapies.


 



    Fraud and
    Abuse Regulations Related to Reimbursement


 


    As participants in government reimbursement programs, we are
    subject to various U.S. federal and state laws, as well as
    foreign laws, pertaining to healthcare “fraud and
    abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws.
    (See Government Regulation — Other.) Violations of
    fraud and abuse laws can result in stringent enforcement
    penalties up to and including complete exclusion from federal
    healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).


 




    Manufacturing,
    Distribution and Raw Materials


 



    Manufacturing


 


    Biological products, which are produced in living systems, are
    inherently complex due to naturally-occurring molecular
    variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process
    and product characterization are required to transform
    laboratory scale processes into reproducible commercial
    manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing operations consist of
    bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish and
    distribution activities. Bulk manufacturing includes
    fermentation and cell culture, which are the processes by which
    our proteins are produced. The proteins are purified to a high
    quality and then formulated into a stable form. The fill process





    
    24



Table of Contents





    dispenses the formulated bulk protein into vials or syringes.
    Finally, in the finish process, our products are packaged for
    distribution.


 


    We operate commercial
    and/or
    clinical manufacturing facilities in the United States, Puerto
    Rico and the Netherlands. (See Item 2. Properties.)
    Manufacturing of
    Sensipar®/Mimpara®,

    our small molecule product, is currently performed by
    third-party contract manufacturers, although we are in the
    process of transferring certain finishing aspects to our
    facility in Puerto Rico. We also use and expect to continue to
    use third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist in
    the production of certain of our large molecule marketed
    products, including ENBREL,
    Nplate®,

    Prolia®

    and
    XGEVAtm

    as well as a number of our clinical product candidates. In
    addition to producing our own commercial quantities of Epoetin
    alfa, we also supply Epoetin alfa in the United States to
    J&J under a supply agreement. (See Business
    Relationships — Johnson & Johnson.)


 


    The global supply of our principal products depends on actively
    managing the inventory produced at our facilities and by
    third-party contract manufacturers and the uninterrupted and
    efficient operation of our facilities and those of our
    third-party contract manufacturers. During the manufacturing
    scale-up
    process, and even after achieving sustainable commercial
    manufacturing, we may encounter difficulties or disruptions due
    to defects in raw materials or equipment, contamination or other
    factors that could impact product availability. (See
    Item 1A. Risk Factors — Manufacturing
    difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our
    products and limit our product sales and — We rely on
    third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical
    devices and components.)


 


    We have obtained from various parties certain licenses we deem
    necessary or desirable for the manufacture of our products. The
    licenses generally require us to pay royalties to the licensors
    based on product sales.


 



    Commercial
    Bulk Manufacturing


 


    We operate commercial bulk manufacturing facilities in Puerto
    Rico and in several locations throughout the United States. (See
    Item 2. Properties.) We perform all of the commercial bulk
    manufacturing of all of our proteins except ENBREL,
    Prolia®

    and
    XGEVAtm,

    which we supplement with a third-party contract manufacturer.


 



    Commercial
    Formulation, Fill and Finish Manufacturing


 


    Our primary commercial formulation, fill and finish
    manufacturing facility is located in Puerto Rico. We perform the
    commercial formulation, fill and finish manufacturing for our
    proteins at that facility, except for
    Vectibix®

    and
    Nplate®.

    We operate a commercial formulation, fill and finish
    manufacturing facility in the United States for
    Vectibix®

    and the formulation, fill and finish for
    Nplate®

    is performed by a third-party contract manufacturer. In addition
    to the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL performed by us in
    Puerto Rico, fill and finish of a certain portion of ENBREL is
    also performed by third-party contract manufacturers. We also
    conduct certain finish activities in the Netherlands. (See
    Item 2. Properties.)


 



    Clinical
    Manufacturing


 


    Clinical bulk, formulation, fill and finish manufacturing
    facilities are operated primarily in our Thousand Oaks,
    California location. (See Item 2. Properties.) Certain
    finishing activities for our clinical products are performed in
    the Netherlands. In addition, we also utilize third-party
    contract manufacturers for certain of our clinical products.


 


    See Item 1A. Risk Factors — We perform a
    substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing activities at
    our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility and a substantial amount
    of our clinical manufacturing activities at our Thousand Oaks,
    California manufacturing facility; if significant natural
    disasters or production failures occur at the Puerto Rico
    facility, we may not be able to supply these products or, at the
    Thousand Oaks facility, we may not be able to continue our
    clinical trials.


 



    Distribution


 


    We operate distribution centers in the United States,
    principally in Kentucky and California, and in the Netherlands
    for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and
    clinical products. In addition, we also





    
    25



Table of Contents





    use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our
    commercial and clinical products in certain areas of the world.


 



    Other


 


    In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities
    noted above, our operations in the United States, Puerto Rico
    and the Netherlands perform key manufacturing support functions,
    including quality control, process development, procurement,
    distribution and production scheduling. Certain of those
    manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated
    by the FDA as well as other international regulatory agencies.
    (See Government Regulation — FDA Regulation of
    Manufacturing Standards.)


 



    Manufacturing
    Initiatives


 


    We have multiple ongoing initiatives that are designed to
    optimize our manufacturing network and mitigate risks while
    continuing to ensure adequate supply of our commercial products.
    For example, we are completing the construction and
    qualification of a new formulation and filling facility at our
    Puerto Rico site in order to mitigate the risk associated with
    the majority of our formulation and fill operations being
    performed in a single facility and we are qualifying the
    expansion of our existing bulk protein facilities at our Puerto
    Rico site in order to maintain supply and to satisfy anticipated
    future demand for denosumab. Upon completion, the facilities
    will require licensure by the various regulatory authorities.


 


    We have also entered into an agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim
    (“BI”) for the divestiture of our manufacturing
    facility in Fremont, California to further optimize our
    manufacturing network.


 


    In addition to these projects, we have initiatives designed to
    operate our facilities at appropriate production capacity over
    the next few years, further optimize manufacturing asset
    utilization, continue our use of third-party contract
    manufacturers and maintain a state of regulatory compliance.
    (See Item 1A. Risk Factors — Manufacturing
    difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our
    products and limit our product sales.)


 



    Raw
    Materials and Medical Devices


 


    Certain raw materials necessary for the commercial and clinical
    bulk manufacturing of our products are provided by unaffiliated
    third-party suppliers, certain of which may be our only source
    for such materials. Also, certain medical devices and components
    necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of our products
    are provided by unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of
    which may be the sole source. Certain of the raw materials,
    medical devices and components are the proprietary products of
    those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically
    cited in our drug application with regulatory agencies so that
    they must be obtained from the specific sole source or sources
    and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until
    the regulatory agency approved such supplier. We currently
    attempt to manage the risk associated with such suppliers by
    inventory management, relationship management and evaluation of
    alternative sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial
    condition of certain suppliers, their ability to supply our
    needs and the market conditions for these items.


 


    Certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and
    clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other
    countries
    and/or
    derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues. In
    addition, one of our marketed products also uses bovine serum
    and human serum albumin (“HSA”). Some countries in
    which we market our products may restrict the use of certain
    biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. We
    continue to investigate alternatives to certain biological
    sources and alternative manufacturing processes that do not
    require the use of certain biologically derived substances
    because such raw materials may be subject to contamination
    and/or
    recall. A material shortage, contamination, recall
    and/or
    restriction of the use of certain biologically derived
    substances or other raw materials, which may be sourced from
    other countries and that are used in the manufacture of our
    products could adversely impact or disrupt the commercial
    manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated
    withdrawal of our products from the market. (See Item 1A.
    Risk Factors — We rely on third-party suppliers for
    certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.)




    
    26



Table of Contents





    We perform various procedures to assist in authenticating the
    source of raw materials, including intermediary materials used
    in the manufacture of our products, which include verification
    of the country of origin. These procedures are incorporated into
    the manufacturing processes we and our third-party contract
    manufacturers perform.


 




    Business
    Relationships


 


    From time to time, we enter into business relationships
    including, joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for
    the R&D, manufacture
    and/or
    commercialization of products and product candidates. In
    addition, we also acquire product and R&D technology rights
    and establish R&D collaborations with third-parties to
    enhance our strategic position within our industry by
    strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities,
    product pipeline and marketed product base. These arrangements
    generally provide for non-refundable upfront license fees,
    R&D and commercial performance milestone payments, cost
    sharing, royalty payments
    and/or
    profit sharing. Our collaboration agreements are performed on a
    “best efforts” basis with no guarantee of either
    technological or commercial success and each is unique in nature.


 


    Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and
    proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade
    secrets, we generally require parties to business relationships
    to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of
    the business relationship with us. However, others could either
    develop independently the same or similar information or obtain
    access to our information.


 



    Kirin
    Holdings Company, Limited


 


    We formed KA, a
    50-50 joint
    venture with Kirin in 1984. KA develops and commercializes
    certain of our and Kirin’s product rights, which have been
    transferred to this joint venture. KA has given exclusive
    licenses to us to manufacture and market: (i) darbepoetin
    alfa in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New
    Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and
    certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East,
    (ii) pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in the United States, Europe,
    Canada, Australia and New Zealand, (iii) recombinant human
    erythropoietin in the United States and (iv) romiplostim in
    the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand,
    Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain
    countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East. We
    currently market darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, G-CSF,
    recombinant human erythropoietin and romiplostim under the brand
    names
    Aranesp®,

    Neulasta®,

    NEUPOGEN®/GRANULOKINE®,

    EPOGEN®

    and
    Nplate®,

    respectively.


 


    KA has also given exclusive licenses to Kirin to manufacture and
    market: (i) darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, G-CSF and
    romiplostim in Japan, the People’s Republic of China
    (“China”), Taiwan, Korea and certain other countries
    in Asia, and (ii) recombinant human erythropoietin in Japan
    and China. Kirin markets darbepoetin alfa in Japan under the
    brand name
    NESP®.

    Kirin markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in
    China under separate agreements with KA. Kirin markets its G-CSF
    product in its respective territories under the trademark
    GRAN®/Grasin®/Filgrastim®.

    Kirin markets its recombinant human erythropoietin product in
    Japan under the trademark
    ESPO®.

    Kirin also markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in
    China under a separate agreement with Amgen Greater China Ltd.,
    a subsidiary of Amgen Inc.


 


    KA has licensed to J&J rights to recombinant human
    erythropoietin in all geographic areas of the world outside the
    United States, China and Japan. (See Johnson &
    Johnson.) Under its agreement with KA, J&J pays a royalty
    to KA based on sales. KA has also licensed to Roche rights to
    pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in certain geographic areas of the world.


 


    In connection with our various license agreements with KA, we
    pay KA royalties based on product sales. In addition, we also
    receive payment from KA for conducting certain R&D
    activities on its behalf. (See Note 7, Related party
    transactions to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)




    
    27



Table of Contents






    Johnson &
    Johnson


 


    We granted J&J a license to commercialize recombinant human
    erythropoietin as a human therapeutic in the United States in
    all indications other than dialysis and diagnostics. All
    recombinant human erythropoietin sold by J&J in the United
    States is manufactured by us and sold by J&J under the
    trademark
    PROCRIT®

    (Epoetin alfa).
    PROCRIT®

    brand Epoetin alfa is identical to
    EPOGEN®

    brand Epoetin alfa, which is manufactured and sold by us in the
    U.S. market for the dialysis indication. Pursuant to the
    license agreement with J&J, we earn a 10% royalty on net
    sales of
    PROCRIT®

    by J&J in the United States.


 


    Outside the United States, with the exception of China and
    Japan, J&J was granted rights to manufacture and
    commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a human
    therapeutic for all uses under a licensing agreement with KA.
    With respect to its sales outside of the United States, J&J
    manufactures and commercializes its own brand of Epoetin alfa
    which is then sold by a subsidiary of J&J under various
    trademarks such as
    EPREX®

    and
    ERYPO®.

    We are not involved in the manufacture of Epoetin alfa sold by
    J&J outside of the United States.


 



    Pfizer
    Inc.


 


    Amgen and Pfizer are in a collaboration agreement to co-promote
    ENBREL in the United States and Canada. The rights to market
    ENBREL outside of the United States and Canada are reserved to
    Pfizer. Under the agreement, a management committee comprised of
    equal representation from Amgen and Pfizer is responsible for
    overseeing the marketing and sales of ENBREL, including
    strategic planning, the approval of an annual marketing plan,
    product pricing and the establishment of a brand team. The brand
    team, with equal representation from each party, prepares and
    implements the annual marketing plan, which requires a minimum
    level of financial and sales personnel commitment from each
    party, and is responsible for all sales activities. Further,
    pursuant to the collaboration agreement, Amgen and Pfizer share
    in the
    agreed-upon
    selling and marketing expenses approved by the joint management
    committee. We currently pay Pfizer a percentage of the annual
    gross profits on our ENBREL sales in the United States and
    Canada attributable to all approved indications for ENBREL on a
    scale that increases as gross profits increase; however, we
    maintain a majority share of ENBREL profits. After expiration of
    the collaboration agreement in the fourth quarter of 2013, we
    are required to pay Pfizer a percentage of net ENBREL sales in
    the United States and Canada for three years. The annual amount
    of such payments is anticipated to be significantly less than
    the current ENBREL profit share.


 



    Glaxo
    Group Limited


 


    In July 2009, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Glaxo for the commercialization of denosumab for osteoporosis
    indications in Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico (the
    “Primary Territories”). We retained the rights to
    commercialize denosumab for all indications in the United States
    and Canada and for oncology indications in the Primary
    Territories. Under a related agreement, Glaxo will commercialize
    denosumab for all indications in countries, excluding Japan,
    where we do not currently have a commercial presence, including
    China, Brazil, India, Taiwan and South Korea (the
    “Expansion Territories”). In the Expansion
    Territories, Glaxo will be responsible for all development and
    commercialization costs and will purchase denosumab from us to
    meet demand. We have the option of expanding our role in the
    future in the commercialization of denosumab in the Primary
    Territories and certain of the Expansion Territories. In the
    Primary Territories, we share equally in the commercialization
    profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting
    for expenses, including an amount payable to us in recognition
    of our discovery and development of denosumab. Glaxo will also
    be responsible for bearing a portion of the cost of certain
    specified development activities in the Primary Territories.


 



    Takeda
    Pharmaceutical Company Limited


 


    In February 2008, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Takeda, which provides Takeda the exclusive rights to develop
    and commercialize for the Japanese market up to 12 clinical
    stage molecules from our pipeline across a range of therapeutic
    areas, including oncology and inflammation. The products include
    Vectibix®

    which received regulatory approval in Japan in 2010 for
    unresectable, advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer with
    wild-type KRAS, AMG 386, which is in a phase 3 trial in
    the United States for recurrent ovarian cancer, and





    
    28



Table of Contents





    ganitumab (AMG 479) which is expected to enter into a phase
    3 trial in the United States for first-line metastatic
    pancreatic cancer in 2011. We have the right to participate in
    the promotion of the products in Japan. In addition, we entered
    into a collaboration agreement with Takeda for the worldwide
    development and commercialization of our product candidate
    motesanib in the oncology area. Each party has the right to
    participate in the commercialization of motesanib in the other
    party’s territory.


 



    Daiichi
    Sankyo Company, Limited


 


    In July 2007, we entered into a collaboration and license
    agreement with Daiichi Sankyo, which provides Daiichi Sankyo the
    exclusive rights to develop and commercialize denosumab in Japan
    in postmenopausal osteoporosis (“PMO”), oncology and
    certain other indications. As part of the agreement, Amgen
    received exclusive worldwide rights to certain Daiichi Sankyo
    intellectual property to the extent applicable to denosumab.


 



    Fresenius
    Medical Care North America


 


    In October 2006, we entered into a five-year sole sourcing and
    supply agreement with an affiliate of Fresenius Medical Care
    North America (“Fresenius North America”) (a wholly
    owned subsidiary of Fresenius Medical Care), on its behalf and
    on behalf of certain of its affiliates, whereby Fresenius North
    America agreed to purchase, and we have agreed to supply, all of
    Fresenius North America’s commercial requirements for ESAs
    for use in managing the anemia of its hemodialysis patients in
    the United States and Puerto Rico, based on forecasts provided
    by Fresenius and subject to the terms and conditions of the
    agreement.


 




    Government
    Regulation


 


    Regulation by government authorities in the United States and
    other countries is a significant factor in the production and
    marketing of our products and our ongoing R&D activities.


 


    In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for
    therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety
    and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory
    bodies. In the United States, the Public Health Service Act, the
    Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”) and the
    regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as other federal and
    state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the
    raw materials and components used in the production, research,
    development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling,
    storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion,
    and distribution of our products. Failure to comply with the
    applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to a variety
    of administrative
    and/or
    judicially imposed sanctions. The sanctions could include the
    FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawals
    of approvals, delay or suspension of clinical trials, warning
    letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial
    suspension of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil
    penalties
    and/or
    criminal prosecution.


 


    Clinical Development. We must conduct extensive clinical
    trials designed to establish the safety and efficacy of product
    candidates in order to file for regulatory approval to market a
    product. Product development and approval within that regulatory
    framework takes a number of years and involves our expenditure
    of substantial resources, and any approval we obtain remains
    costly for us to maintain. After laboratory analysis and
    preclinical testing in animals, we file an investigational new
    drug application (“IND”) with the FDA to begin human
    testing. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days
    after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA raises concerns or
    questions. In such a case, we and the FDA must resolve any
    outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin.


 


    Typically, we undertake a three-phase human clinical testing
    program. In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to
    investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product
    candidates in a small number of human subjects. In phase 2, we
    conduct clinical trials to investigate side effect profiles and
    the efficacy of our product candidates in a larger number of
    patients who have the disease or condition under study. In phase
    3, we conduct clinical trials to investigate the safety and
    efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients
    who have the disease or condition under study. The time and
    expense required for us to perform this clinical testing is
    substantial and may vary by product. For example, the clinical
    trials for the BLA for
    Prolia®/XGEVAtm

    were large and required substantial time and resources to
    recruit patients and significant expense to execute.
    Historically, our products have required smaller, shorter
    trials. Foreign studies performed under an IND must meet the
    same





    
    29



Table of Contents





    requirements that apply to U.S. studies. The FDA will
    accept a foreign clinical study not conducted under an IND only
    if the study is well-designed, well-conducted, performed by
    qualified investigators, and conforms to good clinical practice.
    Phase 1, 2 and 3 testing may not be completed successfully
    within any specified time period, if at all. (See Item 1A.
    Risk Factors — We may not be able to develop
    commercial products.) The FDA monitors the progress of each
    trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion,
    re-evaluate, alter, suspend, or terminate the testing based on
    the data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s
    risk/benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in
    the trial. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors — We must
    conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize
    and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for
    new indications.)


 


    Applications. The results of preclinical and clinical
    trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for
    biologic products subject to the Public Health Service Act or a
    new drug application (“NDA”) for drugs subject to the
    approval provisions of the FDCA. The submission of the
    application is no guarantee that the FDA will find it complete
    and accept it for filing. If an application is accepted for
    filing, following the FDA’s review, the FDA may grant
    marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the
    application if it determines that the application does not
    provide an adequate basis for approval. We cannot take any
    action to market any new drug or biologic product in the United
    States until our appropriate marketing application has been
    approved by the FDA.


 


    Post-approval Phase. After we have obtained approval to
    market our products, we monitor adverse events from the use of
    our products and report such events to regulatory agencies,
    along with information from post marketing surveillance or
    studies. We may utilize other research approaches to learn or
    confirm information about our marketed products, including
    observational studies and patient registries, and may engage in
    risk management activities such as physician education
    initiatives and patient advocacy group initiatives. We may also
    conduct, or be required by regulatory agencies to conduct,
    further clinical trials to provide additional information on our
    marketed products’ safety and efficacy. Those additional
    trials may include studying different doses or schedules of
    administration that were used in previous studies, use in other
    patient populations or other stages of the disease or use over a
    longer period of time. Additional trials of this nature are
    sometimes required by regulatory agencies as a condition of
    their approval to market our products and they might also
    request or require that we conduct specific studies, including
    observational epidemiological studies, in order to identify or
    assess possible safety risks of our marketed products that are
    observed or suggested by available scientific data and such
    trials are sometimes referred to as PMCs or PMRs. In the United
    States, under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of
    2007 (the “FDAAA”), if the FDA becomes aware of new
    safety information after approval of a product, it may require
    us to conduct further clinical trials to assess a known or
    potential serious risk. If we are required to conduct such a
    post-approval study, periodic status reports must be submitted
    to the FDA. Failure to conduct such post-approval studies in a
    timely manner may result in substantial civil or criminal
    penalties. Data resulting from these clinical trials may result
    in expansions or restrictions to the labeled indications for
    which our products have already been approved and to the
    reimbursement provided by government and commercial payers for
    our products.


 


    The FDAAA also gave the FDA authority to require companies to
    implement a REMS for a product to ensure that the benefits of
    the drugs outweigh the risks. While risk management activities
    and programs are not new, with FDAAA the FDA gained new
    authority to implement specific risk management requirements and
    new enforcement power to ensure that the goals of the REMS are
    being met. The FDA began to implement REMS in 2008. The FDA may
    require the submission of a REMS before a product is approved or
    after approval based on new safety information, including new
    analyses of existing safety information. In determining whether
    a product will require a REMS before the product is approved,
    the FDA may consider a number of factors including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    estimated size of the population likely to use the product;




 



     
        • 

    
    seriousness of the condition treated and expected benefits of
    the product;




 



     
        • 

    
    duration of treatment with the product;




 



     
        • 

    
    seriousness of known or potential adverse events associated with
    the product; and




 



     
        • 

    
    whether the product is a new molecular entity.







    
    30



Table of Contents





    All REMS are required to have a timetable for assessment and may
    have one or more of the following:


 





 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    distribution of a medication guide or a patient package insert
    to patients;



 



     
        •     

    
    communication plan for the healthcare provider or institution,
    such as a Dear Healthcare Professional Letter;



 



     
        •     

    
    elements to assure safe use including, but not limited to:





 




    
    
    



     
             ¡       

    
    specific training, experience or certification for prescribers;



 



     
             ¡       

    
    certification of medication dispensing sites and dispensing in
    limited settings;



 



     
             ¡       

    
    monitoring of specific patients; and



 



     
             ¡       

    
    enrollment of patients in a registry.





 


    Each REMS is unique and varies depending on the specific factors
    required. While the elements of REMS may vary, all REMS require
    the sponsor to submit periodic assessment reports to the FDA to
    demonstrate that the goals of the REMS are being met. Failure to
    comply with a REMS, including submission of a required
    assessment or any modification to a REMS, may result in
    substantial civil or criminal penalties and can result in
    additional limitations being placed on a product’s use and,
    potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. We
    currently have approved REMS for our ESAs, ENBREL,
    Prolia®

    and
    Nplate®.

    Because REMS are relatively new, the FDA and sponsor companies
    continue to learn how best to implement, operate and monitor the
    effectiveness of REMS, and the requirements of our REMS and
    those of other companies may change over time.


 


    Adverse events that are reported after marketing approval also
    can result in additional limitations being placed on a
    product’s use and, potentially, withdrawal of the product
    from the market. The FDA has authority to mandate labeling
    changes to products at any point in a product’s lifecycle
    based on new safety information or as part of an evolving label
    change to a particular class of products. Also under the
    FDA’s PLR implemented in 2006, we are required to make
    changes to the existing format of U.S. product package
    inserts for human prescription drug and biological products with
    the intent of making product information more easily accessible.
    The PLR requires revised standards of content and format of
    labeling and provides timelines for when new and previously
    approved products must comply with the new regulations. During
    the PLR conversion process from an old format to the new PLR
    format, the FDA has the authority to evaluate the package insert
    information to ensure that it accurately reflects current
    knowledge and the FDA may revise, add or remove information in
    the old format that could substantively impact the content of
    the product package insert for the new format. Failure to
    implement FDA-mandated changes may result in civil or criminal
    penalties. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our ESA
    products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by
    regulatory authorities and — Our current products and
    products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or
    gain regulatory approval.) The package inserts for our ENBREL
    and
    Neulasta®

    products have already been converted to the new PLR format and
    we are currently working with the FDA on converting the package
    inserts for
    Aranesp®,

    EPOGEN®

    and
    Sensipar®.

    Our
    Vectibix®,

    Nplate®,

    Prolia®

    and
    XGEVAtm

    products were approved in the PLR format.


 


    The FDA also uses various advisory committees of external
    experts to assist in its mission to protect and promote the
    public health, to obtain independent expert advice on
    scientific, technical and policy matters. The committees are
    generally advisory only and FDA officials are not bound to or
    limited by their recommendations. We have participated in
    meetings of the ODAC, the CRDAC and the Advisory Committee for
    Reproductive Health Drugs, among others, to address certain
    issues related to our products, including
    Aranesp®,

    EPOGEN®

    and
    Prolia®.



 


    FDA Approval of Biosimilar Products. The new healthcare
    reform law authorizes the FDA to approve biosimilar products
    under a separate, abbreviated pathway. The new law establishes a
    period of 12 years of data exclusivity for reference
    products in order to preserve incentives for future innovation
    and outlines statutory criteria for science-based biosimilar
    approval standards that take into account patient safety
    considerations. Under this framework, data exclusivity protects
    the data in the innovator’s regulatory application by
    prohibiting others, for a period of 12 years, from gaining
    FDA approval based in part on reliance or reference to the
    innovator’s data in their application to the FDA. The new
    law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic
    products. While the FDA now has the authority to approve
    biosimilar products, the FDA has not announced whether it will
    first





    
    31



Table of Contents





    publish guidance or rules for biosimilar applicants before
    approving biosimilar products. The FDA held a public meeting in
    November 2010 to seek stakeholder input on the subject and
    accepted written comments through 2010.


 


    FDA Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. The
    FDA closely reviews and regulates the marketing and promotion of
    products. We are required to obtain FDA approval before
    marketing or promoting a product as a treatment for a particular
    indication. Our product promotion for approved product
    indications must comply with the statutory standards of the
    FDCA, and the FDA’s implementing regulations and standards.
    The FDA’s review of marketing and promotional activities
    encompasses, but is not limited to,
    direct-to-consumer
    advertising, healthcare provider-directed advertising and
    promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare
    professionals, promotional programming and promotional
    activities involving the Internet. The FDA may also review
    industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities. The
    FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting
    unapproved uses of a product (“off-label promotion”)
    or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and
    regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures,
    injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters,
    which may require corrective advertising or other corrective
    communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply
    with the FDA’s regulations also can result in adverse
    publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the
    U.S. Congress or other legislators.


 


    FDA Regulation of Manufacturing Standards. The FDA
    regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, laboratories and
    processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products
    prior to providing approval to market a product. If after
    receiving approval from the FDA, we make a material change in
    manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional
    regulatory review may be required. We also must adhere to
    current Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”)
    regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA
    through its facilities inspection program. The FDA also conducts
    regular, periodic visits to re-inspect our equipment,
    facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial
    approval. If, as a result of those inspections, the FDA
    determines that our equipment, facilities, laboratories or
    processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and
    conditions of product approval, the FDA may seek civil, criminal
    or administrative sanctions
    and/or
    remedies against us, including suspension of our manufacturing
    operations. Such issues may also delay the approval of new
    products undergoing FDA review.


 


    Approval and Post-Approval Regulation Outside the United
    States. In the EU countries, Switzerland, Canada and
    Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes are
    similar in principle to those in the United States.
    Additionally, depending on the type of drug for which approval
    is sought, there are currently two potential tracks for
    marketing approval in the EU, including a centralized procedure.
    In the centralized procedure, which is required of all products
    derived from biotechnology, a company submits a single marketing
    authorization application to the EMA who conducts a thorough
    evaluation, drawing from its scientific resources across Europe.
    If the drug product is proven to fulfill the requirements for
    quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP adopts a positive
    opinion, which is transmitted to the EC for final approval of
    the marketing authorization. While the EC generally follows the
    CHMP’s opinion, it is not bound to do so. In the EU,
    biosimilar products have been approved under a
    sub-pathway
    of the centralized procedure since 2006. The pathway allows
    sponsors of a biosimilar product to seek and obtain regulatory
    approval based in part on the clinical trial data of an
    originator product to which the biosimilar product has been
    demonstrated to be “similar.” In many cases, this
    allows biosimilar products to be brought to market without
    conducting the full suite of clinical trials typically required
    of innovators. After evaluation and marketing authorization,
    various parties, including the national competent authorities,
    the EMA, the EC and the marketing authorization holders share
    responsibilities for the detection, assessment and prevention of
    adverse effects and other medicine-related problems in a process
    known as pharmacovigilance. Healthcare professionals and
    patients are also encouraged to report adverse effects and other
    medicine-related problems. This process includes the collection
    of adverse drug reaction reports as part of the
    follow-up on
    any side effects of a product, and upon assessment, the
    authorities can decide to demand that product labels be updated
    with safety data or warnings, that safety data or warnings be
    provided to healthcare professionals, or recommend the temporary
    suspension or complete withdrawal of a product from the market.


 


    Other. We are also subject to various federal and state
    laws, as well as foreign laws, pertaining to healthcare
    “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and
    false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to
    solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for,
    or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase
    or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a
    state or federal program. The federal government and the states
    have published regulations that identify “safe
    harbors” or exemptions for certain arrangements that do not





    
    32



Table of Contents





    violate the anti-kickback statute. We seek to comply with the
    safe harbors wherever possible. Due to the breadth of the
    statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of
    regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices,
    it is possible that our practices might be challenged under
    anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit
    knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented
    for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and
    Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are
    false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided
    as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or
    services. Our activities related to the sale and marketing of
    our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws.
    Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal
    and/or civil
    sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well
    as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs
    (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government were to
    allege against or convict us of violating those laws or if we
    entered into a settlement with the government, there could be a
    material adverse effect on our business, including our stock
    price. Our activities could be subject to challenge for the
    reasons discussed above and due to the broad scope of those laws
    and the increasing attention being given to them by law
    enforcement authorities.


 


    We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety
    and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource
    Conservation and Recovery Act and other current and potential
    future federal, state or local laws, rules
    and/or
    regulations. Our R&D activities involve the controlled use
    of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials and
    various radioactive compounds. We believe our procedures comply
    with the standards prescribed by federal, state or local laws,
    rules and/or
    regulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental
    contamination cannot be completely eliminated. While we are not
    required to do so, we strive to conduct our research and
    manufacturing activities in a manner that meets the intents and
    purposes of the National Institutes of Health Guidelines for
    Recombinant DNA Research.


 


    Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
    (“FCPA”) prohibits U.S. corporations and their
    representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making
    payments to any foreign government official, government staff
    member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to
    obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes
    interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many
    countries.


 


    Our present and future business has been and will continue to be
    subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules
    and/or
    regulations.


 




    Research
    and Development and Selected Product Candidates


 


    Our vision is to deliver therapeutics that can make a meaningful
    difference in patients’ lives. Therefore, we focus our
    R&D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of
    grievous illness in the areas of oncology, hematology,
    inflammation, bone, nephrology, cardiovascular and general
    medicine, which includes neurology. We take a
    modality-independent approach to R&D — that is,
    we identify targets, and then choose the modality best suited to
    address a specific target. As such, our discovery research
    programs may yield targets that lead to the development of human
    therapeutics delivered as large molecules (such as proteins,
    antibodies and peptibodies) or small molecules.


 


    We have major R&D centers in several locations throughout
    the United States and in the United Kingdom, as well as smaller
    research centers in Canada and Germany, and smaller development
    facilities throughout Europe and in Canada, Australia, Mexico,
    Hong Kong and India. (See Item 2. Properties.)


 


    To execute our clinical trial programs, we need to maintain an
    effective development organization and associated R&D
    support organizations. We conduct clinical trial activities with
    both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial
    service providers. In order to increase the number of patients
    available for enrollment for our clinical trials, we have and
    will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a
    number of geographic locations. (See Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — We must conduct clinical trials in humans
    before we can commercialize and sell any of our product
    candidates or existing products for new indications.)


 


    Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R&D in
    areas where we have products or where we are developing product
    candidates or new indications for existing products. For
    example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible
    patients, which may limit the number of available patients who
    meet the criteria for certain





    
    33



Table of Contents





    clinical trials. The competitive marketplace for our product
    candidates is significantly dependent upon the timing of entry
    into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in
    gaining product acceptance, contributing to the product’s
    eventual success and profitability. Accordingly, we expect that
    in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop
    products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval
    and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market is
    expected to be important to our competitive position.


 


    In addition to product candidates and marketed products
    generated from our internal R&D efforts, we acquire
    companies, acquire and license certain product and R&D
    technology rights and establish R&D collaborations with
    third parties to enhance our strategic position within our
    industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D
    capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. These
    licenses and collaboration agreements generally provide for
    non-refundable upfront license fees, R&D and commercial
    performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments
    and/or
    profit sharing.


 


    Various public and privately owned companies, research
    organizations, academic institutions and governmental agencies
    conduct a significant amount of R&D in the biotechnology
    industry. We face competition in pursuing collaborative
    arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities from other
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to
    license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed
    products from these entities. Accordingly, we may have
    difficulty entering into collaborative arrangements and
    licensing or acquiring technologies, product candidates and
    marketed products on acceptable terms.


 


    See Government Regulation — Clinical Development for a
    discussion of the government regulation over clinical
    development.




    
    34



Table of Contents





    The following table is a selection of certain of our product
    candidates by phase of development in our therapeutic areas of
    focus as of February 9, 2011, unless otherwise indicated.
    Each target indication for product candidates in phase 3 is
    listed separately. Additional product candidate (pipeline)
    information can be found on our website at
    http://www.amgen.com.
    (This website address is not intended to function as a
    hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not
    intended to be a part of this filing.)


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Molecule


 


    Disease/Condition


 


    Therapeutic Area



 






    Phase 3 Programs






    AMG 386



 



    Ovarian cancer



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    Ganitumab (AMG 479)



 



    Pancreatic cancer



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    Aranesp®

    (darbepoetin alfa)



 



    Anemia in heart failure



 


    Nephrology





    Motesanib



 



    First-line non-small cell lung cancer



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    Prolia®

    (denosumab)



 



    Male osteoporosis



 


    Bone





    Sensipar®/Mimpara®

    (cinacalcet)



 



    Cardiovascular disease in patients with secondary
    hyperparathyroidism and chronic kidney disease undergoing
    maintenance dialysis



 


    Nephrology





    Vectibix®

    (panitumumab)



 



    First- and second-line colorectal cancer



 


    Hematology/Oncology




XGEVAtm

(denosumab)


 



    Prevention of bone metastases in prostate cancer



 


    Hematology/Oncology




XGEVAtm

(denosumab)


 



    Prevention of bone metastases in breast cancer



 


    Hematology/Oncology




 





    Phase 2 Programs






    AMG 386



 



    Various cancer types



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    Ganitumab (AMG 479)



 



    Various cancer types



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    AMG 785



 



    Bone-related conditions, including postmenopausal osteoporosis
    and fracture healing



 


    Bone





    AMG 827



 



    Inflammatory diseases



 


    Inflammation





    AMG 853



 



    Asthma



 


    Inflammation





    Conatumumab



 



    Various cancer types



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    Denosumab



 



    Rheumatoid arthritis



 


    Inflammation





    Motesanib



 



    First-line breast cancer



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    Nplate®

    (romiplostim)



 



    Chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    Nplate®

    (romiplostim)



 



    Myelodysplastic syndromes



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    Omecamtiv mecarbil (AMG 423)



 



    Heart failure



 


    Cardiovascular





    Rilotumumab (AMG 102)



 



    Various cancer types



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    Sensipar®/Mimpara®

    (cinacalcet)



 



    Post Renal Transplant



 


    Nephrology





    Vectibix®

    (panitumumab)



 



    Locally advanced head and neck cancer



 


    Hematology/Oncology




 





    Phase 1 Programs






    AMG 139



 



    Inflammatory diseases



 


    Inflammation





    AMG 145



 



    Hypercholesterolemia



 


    Cardiovascular





    AMG 151



 



    Type 2 diabetes



 


    General Medicine





    AMG 157



 



    Asthma



 


    Inflammation





    AMG 167



 



    Bone-related conditions



 


    Bone





    AMG 181



 



    Ulcerative colitis



 


    Inflammation





    AMG 191



 



    Inflammatory diseases



 


    Inflammation





    AMG 208



 



    Various cancer types



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    AMG 221



 



    Type 2 diabetes



 


    General Medicine





    AMG 319



 



    Hematologic malignancies



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    AMG 337



 



    Various cancer types



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    AMG 557



 



    Systemic lupus erythematosus



 


    Inflammation





    AMG 745



 



    Muscle-wasting disorders



 


    General Medicine





    AMG 747



 



    Neuroscience



 


    General Medicine





    AMG 761



 



    Asthma



 


    Inflammation





    AMG 780



 



    Various cancer types



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    AMG 811



 



    Systemic lupus erythematosus



 


    Inflammation





    AMG 820



 



    Various cancer types



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    AMG 888



 



    Various cancer types



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    AMG 900



 



    Various cancer types



 


    Hematology/Oncology





    Dulanermin (rhApo2L/TRAIL)



 



    Various cancer types



 


    Hematology/Oncology








 








    
    
    



    
    Phase 1
    
    
    
    clinical trials investigate safety
    and proper dose ranges of a product candidate in a small number
    of human subjects.
    


 


    
    Phase 2
    
    
    
    clinical trials investigate side
    effect profiles and efficacy of a product candidate in a large
    number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.
    


 


    
    Phase 3
    
    
    
    clinical trials investigate the
    safety and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of
    patients who have the disease or condition under study.
    






    
    35



Table of Contents





    The following text provides additional information about
    selected product candidates that have advanced into human
    clinical trials.


 



    AMG
    386


 


    AMG 386 is a peptibody that inhibits the interaction between the
    endothelial cell-selective Tie2 receptor and its ligands Ang1
    and Ang2. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.


 


    In 2007 and 2008, we initiated five randomized phase 2 studies
    of AMG 386 for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma
    (“RCC”), metastatic breast cancer, ovarian cancer,
    gastric cancer and colorectal cancer, and numerous other
    supportive studies. In June 2010 at a medical meeting, we
    presented the results from the phase 2 recurrent ovarian cancer
    trial. Based on study results, we initiated a phase 3 study in
    recurrent ovarian cancer in 2010. We also initiated a phase 1b
    study in first-line ovarian cancer in 2010. We are initiating
    other phase 2 studies in 2011.


 



    Ganitumab
    (AMG 479)


 


    Ganitumab (AMG 479) is a fully human monoclonal antibody
    antagonist of IGF-1 receptor. It is being investigated as a
    cancer treatment.


 


    In 2007, we initiated a phase 2 study of ganitumab (AMG
    479) as a potential cancer therapeutic in Ewing’s
    sarcoma. We also initiated, in 2008, phase 2 studies for the
    treatment of advanced breast, pancreatic, colorectal and small
    cell lung cancers. We reported the results from the phase 2
    Ewing’s sarcoma and pancreatic cancer studies at a medical
    meeting in June 2010 and results from the breast cancer study at
    a meeting in December 2010. Results from a study in mCRC in
    combination with
    Vectibix®

    were reported at a meeting in January 2011. We are initiating a
    phase 3 study in first-line metastatic pancreatic cancer in 2011.


 



    Aranesp®

    (darbepoetin alfa)


 


    Aranesp®

    is a recombinant human protein agonist of the erythropoietin
    receptor.


 


    The Reduction of Events with Darbepoetin alfa in Heart Failure
    (“RED-HF®”)

    Trial phase 3 study, initiated in 2006, is a large (2,600
    subjects planned), global, randomized, double-blind,
    placebo-controlled study to evaluate the effect of treatment of
    anemia with darbepoetin alfa on morbidity and mortality in
    patients with symptomatic left ventricular heart failure. The
    RED-HF®

    Trial continues to enroll subjects and we anticipate completion
    of the study in 2012.


 



    Motesanib


 


    Motesanib is an orally-administered small molecule antagonist of
    vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1, 2 and 3,
    platelet-derived growth factor receptors and stem cell factor
    receptor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment. We are
    developing this product in collaboration with Takeda/Millennium
    Pharmaceuticals.


 


    Enrollment in the phase 3 first-line NSCLC study (MONET1)
    evaluating motesanib in combination with paclitaxel and
    carboplatin for the first-line treatment of advanced NSCLC is
    complete. Based on current event rates, we anticipate completion
    of the study in the first half of 2011.


 


    At a medical meeting in June 2010, we shared the results of
    biomarkers as predictors of response to treatment with motesanib
    or bevacizumab in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel in
    patients with NSCLC or in combination with paclitaxel in
    patients with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer.


 



    Denosumab


 


    Denosumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that specifically
    targets a ligand known as RANKL (that binds to a receptor known
    as RANK) which is a key mediator of osteoclast formation,
    function, and survival. Denosumab is being studied across a
    range of conditions including osteoporosis, treatment-induced
    bone loss, RA and numerous tumor types across the spectrum of
    cancer-related bone diseases.


 



    Prolia®

    (denosumab)


 


    The phase 3 study evaluating
    Prolia®

    patients with male osteoporosis is ongoing.




    
    36



Table of Contents






    XGEVAtm

    (denosumab)
    


 


    In February 2010, we announced that a pivotal, phase 3,
    head-to-head
    study evaluating
    XGEVAtm

    versus
    Zometa®

    (zoledronic acid) in the treatment of bone metastases in 1,901
    men with advanced prostate cancer met its primary and secondary
    endpoints.
    XGEVAtm

    demonstrated superiority over
    Zometa®

    for both delaying the time to the first on-study SRE (fracture,
    radiation to bone, surgery to bone or spinal cord compression)
    (hazard ratio (“HR”) 0.82, 95% confidence interval
    (“CI”): 0.71, 0.95), and reducing the rate of multiple
    SREs (HR 0.82, 95% CI: 0.71, 0.94). Both results were
    statistically significant.


 


    In December 2010, we announced top-line results from a phase 3
    trial evaluating
    XGEVAtm

    versus placebo in 1,432 men with non-metastatic
    castrate-resistant prostate cancer. The trial, known as the
    ’147 study, demonstrated that
    XGEVAtm

    significantly improved median bone metastasis-free survival by
    4.2 months (HR=0.85, 95%
    CI 0.73-0.98,
    p=0.03) compared to placebo (primary endpoint), and
    significantly improved time to first occurrence of bone
    metastases (secondary endpoint). Overall survival was similar
    between the
    XGEVAtm

    and placebo groups (secondary endpoint). Overall rates of
    adverse events and serious adverse events were generally similar
    between
    XGEVAtm

    and placebo, with hypocalcemia and osteonecrosis of the jaw
    (“ONJ”) observed at increased frequencies in the
    XGEVAtm

    arm. The yearly rate of ONJ in the
    XGEVAtm-treated

    group was similar to what has been observed in prior
    XGEVAtm

    trials. This study will form the basis of planned marketing
    applications, which we expect to submit to regulatory
    authorities beginning in the first half of 2011, for a new
    indication for the prevention of bone metastases in prostate
    cancer.


 


    Also, we are currently conducting a study for the prevention of
    bone metastases in patients with breast cancer and are planning
    an additional SRE study in patients with multiple myeloma.


 



    Sensipar®/Mimpara®

    (cinacalcet)


 


    Sensipar®/Mimpara®

    is an orally-administered small molecule that lowers PTH levels
    in blood by signaling through the calcium-sensing receptor in
    parathyroid tissue to inhibit PTH secretion. It also lowers
    blood calcium and phosphorous levels.


 


    The phase 3 EValuation Of Cinacalcet HCl Therapy to Lower
    CardioVascular Events
    (“E.V.O.L.V.Etm”)

    trial, initiated in 2006, is a large (3,800 patient),
    multi-center, international, randomized, double-blind study to
    assess the effects of
    Sensipar®/Mimpara®

    in mortality and cardiovascular morbidity in patients with CKD
    undergoing maintenance dialysis. The
    E.V.O.L.V.Etm

    study completed enrollment in January 2008. Based on current
    event rates, we anticipate completion of the study in dialysis
    patients in 2012.


 


    Sensipar®/Mimpara®

    is also being evaluated in post renal transplant patients.


 



    Vectibix®

    (panitumumab)


 


    Vectibix®

    is a monoclonal antibody antagonist of the EGFr pathway. It is
    being investigated as a cancer treatment.


 


    On April 16, 2010, our application for marketing
    authorization for the use of
    Vectibix®

    in first- and second-line treatment of mCRC in patients whose
    tumors contain wild-type KRAS genes was submitted to the
    EMA. In the United States, we filed supplemental BLA submissions
    for first- and second-line mCRC with the FDA on October 29,
    and November 4, 2010.


 


    In August 2010, we announced top-line results from a randomized
    phase 3 trial evaluating
    Vectibix®

    as a first-line treatment in patients with recurrent
    and/or
    metastatic squamous cell head and neck cancer. The data showed
    the addition of
    Vectibix®

    to platinum-based chemotherapy did not result in a statistically
    significant improvement in overall survival, the primary
    endpoint, compared to chemotherapy alone [median
    11.1 months versus 9.0 months, HR 0.87 (95% CI: 0.73,
    1.05)]. Secondary endpoints of progression-free survival [median
    5.8 months versus 4.6 months, HR 0.78 (95% CI: 0.66,
    0.92)] and objective response rate (36% versus 25%) were
    numerically improved but were not tested for statistical
    significance.


 


    Additionally, we have two ongoing phase 2 trials in locally
    advanced head and neck cancer.




    
    37



Table of Contents






    AMG
    785


 


    AMG 785 is a humanized monoclonal antibody that targets
    sclerostin, a protein secreted by bone cells that inhibits bone
    formation. AMG 785 (also known as CDP7851) is being developed in
    collaboration with UCB for bone-related conditions, including
    PMO and fracture healing.


 


    In 2009, we initiated phase 2 studies of AMG 785 for the
    treatment of PMO and fracture healing (tibial diaphyseal).


 


    In 2010, we initiated a phase 2 study of AMG 785 for the
    treatment of fracture healing (hip).


 



    AMG
    827


 


    AMG 827 is a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to and
    blocks signaling via the interleukin-17 receptor. It is being
    investigated as a treatment for a variety of inflammatory
    disorders.


 


    In 2009, we initiated phase 2 studies of AMG 827 as a potential
    treatment for psoriasis and RA. In 2010, we initiated phase 2
    studies of AMG 827 as a potential treatment for Crohn’s
    disease and asthma. We received the results from the phase 2
    study in psoriasis in 2010 and plan to share these data at an
    upcoming medical meeting.


 



    AMG
    853


 


    AMG 853 is an orally-administered small molecule antagonist of
    the CRTH2 and D-prostanoid receptors of prostaglandin D2. It is
    being investigated as a treatment for asthma.


 


    Phase 1 single- and multiple-ascending dose studies have been
    completed. A global, randomized, double-blind, placebo
    controlled, multiple dose phase 2 study in subjects with
    inadequately controlled asthma was initiated in December 2009
    and is ongoing.


 



    Conatumumab


 


    Conatumumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody agonist that
    targets death receptor 5 and induces apoptosis in sensitive
    tumor cells. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.


 


    We have an ongoing phase 2 study in mCRC.


 



    Nplate®

    (romiplostim)


 


    Nplate®

    is a peptibody agonist of the TPO receptor.


 


    In December 2010, we announced results at a medical meeting from
    studies evaluating
    Nplate®

    in adult and pediatric patients with chronic immune (idiopathic)
    thrombocytopenic purpura.


 


    Results from completed phase 2 studies in myelodysplastic
    syndromes (“MDS”) were presented in 2010. In late
    February 2011, an independent Data Monitoring Committee
    (“DMC”) recommended that we modify the study conduct
    in another ongoing phase 2 study exploring the use of
    Nplate®

    in MDS, expressing concern that the demonstrated benefits seen
    in treated patients might not outweigh the potential risks of
    accelerated disease progression to AML. The DMC was also
    concerned that transient blast cell increases in the
    Nplate®

    arm put patients at risk for diagnosis of, and treatment for,
    AML, irrespective of whether or not the disease had actually
    developed. We accepted the recommendation of the DMC and
    notified investigators that subjects in this study should
    discontinue
    Nplate®

    treatment and enter into the observational long-term
    follow-up
    phase of the study.


 


    Nplate®

    is also being evaluated in chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia.


 



    Omecamtiv
    mecarbil (AMG 423)


 


    Omecamtiv mecarbil is a small molecule activator of cardiac
    myosin. Omecamtiv mecarbil is being investigated to improve
    cardiac contractility in subjects with heart failure. We are
    developing this product in collaboration with Cytokinetics, Inc.
    (“Cytokinetics”).




    
    38



Table of Contents






    Rilotumumab
    (AMG 102)


 


    Rilotumumab (AMG 102) is a fully human monoclonal antibody
    that blocks the action of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter
    factor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.


 


    Results from a study in mCRC in combination with
    Vectibix®

    were reported at a meeting in January 2011. Phase 2 combination
    studies with rilotumumab (AMG 102) in the gastric,
    prostate, mCRC and small cell lung cancer settings continue.


 




    Human
    Resources


 


    As of December 31, 2010, Amgen had approximately 17,400
    staff members, which includes approximately 300 part-time
    staff members. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    continue attracting and retaining qualified personnel in
    sufficient numbers to meet our needs. None of our staff members
    are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have
    experienced no work stoppages. We consider our staff relations
    to be good.


 


    Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and
    proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade
    secrets, we generally require our staff members, material
    consultants and scientific advisors to execute confidentiality
    agreements upon commencement of employment or a consulting
    relationship with us. However, others could either develop
    independently the same or similar information or obtain access
    to our information.


 




    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    The executive officers of the Company as of February 11,
    2011 are as follows:


 


    Mr. Kevin W. Sharer, age 62, has served as a director
    of the Company since November 1992. Mr. Sharer has been the
    Company’s Chief Executive Officer since May 2000 and has
    also been Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2001.
    From May 2000 to May 2010, Mr. Sharer also served as the
    Company’s President. From October 1992 to May 2000,
    Mr. Sharer served as President and Chief Operating Officer
    of the Company. From April 1989 to October 1992,
    Mr. Sharer was President of the Business Markets Division
    of MCI Communications Corporation. From February 1984 to March
    1989, Mr. Sharer held numerous executive capacities at
    General Electric Company (“GE”). Mr. Sharer is a
    director of Chevron Corporation and Northrop Grumman
    Corporation. He is Chairman of the Board of the Los Angeles
    County Museum of Natural History.


 


    Mr. David W. Beier, age 62, became Senior Vice
    President, Global Government and Corporate Affairs in March
    2008. He joined the Company in 2003 as Senior Vice President,
    Global Government Affairs. Previously, Mr. Beier was a
    partner with the law firm of Hogan and Hartson in
    Washington, D.C. From 1998 to early 2001, Mr. Beier
    served as Chief Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President of
    the United States. He also held positions as Vice President of
    Government Affairs and Public Policy for Genentech and staff
    counsel in the U.S. House of Representatives.
    Mr. Beier is a director of ARYx Therapeutics, Inc.


 


    Dr. Fabrizio Bonanni, age 64, became Executive Vice
    President, Operations in August 2007. He has served as Senior
    Vice President, Manufacturing of the Company since 2004.
    Dr. Bonanni joined the Company in 1999 as Senior Vice
    President, Quality and Compliance, and in June 2001 he also
    became the Corporate Compliance Officer. Previously,
    Dr. Bonanni held various management positions at Baxter
    International, Inc. from 1974 to 1999, including positions as
    Corporate Vice President, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs and
    Corporate Vice President, Quality System.


 


    Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 48, became President and
    Chief Operating Officer of Amgen in May 2010. Mr. Bradway
    joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations
    Strategy and served as Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer from April 2007 to May 2010. Prior to joining
    the Company, he was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley in
    London where he had responsibility for the firm’s banking
    department and corporate finance activities in Europe.
    Mr. Bradway joined Morgan Stanley in New York as a health
    care industry investment banker in 1985 and moved to London in
    1990 where he served as head of the firm’s international
    health care investment banking activities until assuming broader
    corporate finance management responsibilities.




    
    39



Table of Contents





    Mr. Brian McNamee, age 54, became Senior Vice
    President, Human Resources in June 2001. From November 1999 to
    June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human
    Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999,
    Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation, a division
    of GE. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held
    human resource positions at GE.


 


    Mr. Jonathan M. Peacock, age 52, became Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer in September 2010. Prior
    to joining Amgen, Mr. Peacock served as Chief Financial and
    Administration Officer of Novartis Pharmaceuticals AG beginning
    in 2005. From 1998 to 2005, Mr. Peacock was a partner at
    McKinsey and Co., where he co-led the European Corporate Finance
    Practice. Mr. Peacock was also a partner at Price
    Waterhouse in London and New York from 1993 to 1998.


 


    Dr. Roger M. Perlmutter, age 58, became Executive Vice
    President, Research and Development in January 2001. From July
    1999 to December 2000, Dr. Perlmutter was Executive Vice
    President, Worldwide Basic Research and Preclinical Development
    of Merck Research Laboratories. From February 1999 to July 1999,
    Dr. Perlmutter served as Executive Vice President of Merck
    Research Laboratories, and from February 1997 to January 1999,
    as Senior Vice President of Merck Research Laboratories. From
    May 1989 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter was also Chairman
    of the Department of Immunology, University of Washington, and
    from January 1991 to January 1997, Professor in the Departments
    of Immunology, Biochemistry and Medicine, University of
    Washington. From July 1984 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter
    served as Investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at
    the University of Washington. Dr. Perlmutter currently
    serves on the Board of Directors of StemCells, Inc.


 


    Ms. Anna S. Richo, age 50, became Senior Vice
    President and Chief Compliance Officer in June 2008. From
    December 2003 to June 2008, Ms. Richo served as Vice
    President, Law. Prior to Amgen, she spent 12 years at
    Baxter Healthcare Corporation in roles of increasing
    responsibility in law, including Vice President, Law, for
    Baxter’s BioScience Division. Also, for more than five
    years, Ms. Richo served on the Board of Directors of Cytyc
    Corporation and was a member of the Audit and Finance Committees.


 


    Mr. David J. Scott, age 58, became Senior Vice
    President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2004. From May
    1999 to February 2004, Mr. Scott served as Senior Vice
    President and General Counsel of Medtronic, Inc. and also as
    Secretary from January 2000. From December 1997 to April 1999,
    Mr. Scott served as General Counsel of London-based United
    Distillers & Vintners. Mr. Scott also served in
    executive roles at Grand Metropolitan plc and RJR Nabisco, Inc.,
    and was an attorney in private practice.


 




    Geographic
    Area Financial Information


 


    For financial information concerning the geographic areas in
    which we operate, see Note 20, Segment
    information — Geographic information to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.


 




    Investor
    Information


 


    Financial and other information about us is available on our
    website
    (http://www.amgen.com)
    (This website address is not intended to function as a
    hyperlink, and the information contained in our website is not
    intended to be a part of this filing). We make available on our
    website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after filing or submitting such material
    electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. In
    addition, we have previously filed registration statements and
    other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be
    inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference
    room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549
    or at the SEC’s internet address at
    http://www.sec.gov
    (This website address is not intended to function as a
    hyperlink, and the information contained in the SEC’s
    website is not intended to be a part of this filing).
    Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public
    reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.




    
    40



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    Item 1A.

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    This report and other documents we file with the SEC contain
    forward looking statements that are based on current
    expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our
    future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our
    beliefs and our management’s assumptions. These statements
    are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain
    risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to
    predict. You should carefully consider the risks and
    uncertainties facing our business. The risks described below are
    not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the
    risks that affect many other companies, such as employment
    relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and
    international operations. Further, additional risks not
    currently known to us or that we currently believe are
    immaterial also may impair our business, operations, liquidity
    and stock price materially and adversely.


 



    Our sales
    depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party
    payers.


 


    Sales of all of our principal products are dependent on the
    availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from
    third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and
    private insurance plans. Governments and private payers may
    regulate prices, reimbursement levels
    and/or
    access to our products to control costs or to affect levels of
    use of our products. We rely in large part on the reimbursement
    of our principal products through government programs such as
    Medicare and Medicaid in the United States and similar programs
    in foreign countries and a reduction in the coverage
    and/or
    reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse
    effect on our product sales and results of operations.


 


    The government-sponsored healthcare systems in Europe and many
    other foreign countries are the primary payers for healthcare
    expenditures, including payment for drugs and biologics, in
    those regions. While mandatory price reductions have been a
    recurring aspect of business for the pharmaceutical and
    biotechnology industries in Europe, given the current worldwide
    economic conditions, certain European country governments have
    increased the frequency and size of such mandatory price
    reductions to extract further cost savings. For example, in 2010
    countries such as Greece announced price reductions
    and/or
    mandated rebates for certain pharmaceutical and biological
    products that substantially exceeded prior levels. We expect
    that other countries may follow
    and/or take
    similar or more extensive actions to reduce expenditure on drugs
    and biologics, including mandatory price reductions, preference
    for biosimilar products or reduction in the amount of
    reimbursement. While we cannot fully predict the extent of
    further price reductions by countries in Europe or the impact
    such price reductions will have on our business, such reductions
    in price
    and/or the
    coverage and reimbursement for our products in European
    countries could have a material adverse effect on our product
    sales and results of operations.


 


    In March 2010 the United States adopted significant healthcare
    reform through the enactment of the PPACA and the Heathcare and
    Education Reconciliation Act. (See Reimbursement —
    U.S. Healthcare Reform.) A major goal of the new healthcare
    reform law is to provide greater access to healthcare coverage
    for more Americans. Accordingly, the new healthcare reform law
    requires individual U.S. citizens and legal residents to
    maintain qualifying health coverage, imposes certain
    requirements on employers with respect to offering health
    coverage to employees, amends insurance regulations regarding
    when coverage can be provided and denied to individuals, and
    expands existing government healthcare coverage programs to more
    individuals in more situations, with most of these changes going
    into effect in January 2014. We do not expect a significant
    increase in sales of our products as a result of the 2014
    expansions in healthcare coverage. The new healthcare reform law
    does have several components, with varied implementation dates
    that began in 2010, that have and are expected to continue to
    adversely impact our business. While we cannot fully predict the
    ultimate impact the new healthcare reform law will have on us,
    we expect that the new law will continue to have a material
    adverse effect on our business and results of operations.


 


    Public and private insurers have pursued, and continue to
    pursue, aggressive cost containment initiatives, including
    increased focus on comparing the effectiveness, benefits and
    costs of similar treatments, which could result in lower
    reimbursement rates for our products. A substantial portion of
    our U.S. business relies on reimbursement under Medicare
    Part B coverage. Any deterioration in the timeliness or
    certainty of payment from CMS to physicians, including as a
    result of changes in policy or regulations, or as a result of
    operational difficulties, could negatively impact the
    willingness of physicians to prescribe our products for patients
    relying on





    
    41



Table of Contents





    Medicare for their medical coverage. Most of our products
    furnished to Medicare beneficiaries in both a physician office
    setting and hospital outpatient setting are reimbursed under the
    ASP payment methodology. ASP-based reimbursements of products
    under Medicare may be below or could fall below the cost that
    some medical providers pay for such products, which would
    adversely affect sales of our products. We also face certain
    risks relating to the calculation of ASP. ASP is calculated by
    the manufacturer based on a statutorily defined formula and
    submitted to CMS. However, the statute, regulations and CMS
    guidance do not define specific methodologies for all aspects of
    the calculation of ASP. For example, in the Medicare Physician
    Fee Schedule Final Rule for 2011, CMS did not address a
    proposed methodology for treatment of bundled price concessions.
    Consequently, the current CMS guidance is that manufacturers may
    make “reasonable assumptions” in their calculation of
    ASP consistent with the general requirements and the intent of
    the Medicare statute, federal regulations and their customary
    business practices. As a result, we are required to apply our
    judgment in certain aspects of calculating ASP which are
    disclosed to CMS and also are subject to further CMS review. If
    our calculation of ASP is incorrect, we could be subject to
    substantial fines and penalties which could have a material
    adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, we
    are required to pay rebates to the federal government on
    products reimbursed by Medicaid at a rate of 23.1% of the
    average manufacturers price (“AMP”) of a product, or
    if it is greater, the difference between the AMP and the best
    price available to any non-government customer. The definition
    of AMP recently changed and we expect CMS to shortly issue a
    proposed rule further defining the new AMP definition. Until
    that rule is issued, we will be required to apply our judgment
    in certain aspects of the AMP calculation. Once the CMS rule is
    issued, we will have to determine whether our interpretation of
    AMP follows the rule or would need to be restated and this could
    have a material adverse impact on our business and results of
    operations.


 


    Other initiatives reviewing the coverage or reimbursement of our
    products could result in less extensive coverage or lower
    reimbursement rates. For example, in July 2007, CMS issued an
    NCD where it determined that ESA treatment was not reasonable
    and necessary for certain clinical conditions and established
    Medicare coverage parameters for FDA-approved ESA use in
    oncology. Generally, an NCD is a national policy statement
    granting, limiting or excluding Medicare coverage or
    reimbursement for a specific medical item or service. We believe
    the restrictions in the 2007 NCD changed the way ESAs are used
    in clinical practice, for example, by decreasing the number of
    treated patients, the average ESA dose and the duration of ESA
    therapy in the oncology setting. As a result, we believe these
    restrictions have had a material adverse effect on the use,
    reimbursement and sales of
    Aranesp®,

    which has had a significant impact to our business.


 


    The reimbursement of ESAs in the nephrology setting is also
    receiving attention. On March 24, 2010, CMS held a MEDCAC
    meeting to examine the currently available evidence on the use
    of ESAs to manage anemia in patients who have CKD and on
    June 16, 2010, CMS opened an NCA to examine the use of ESAs
    to manage anemia in patients with CKD and dialysis-related
    anemia. This NCA initiates the process of reviewing and
    evaluating potential changes in Medicare coverage policies for
    the use of ESAs in those patients and may result in the issuance
    of a new NCD by CMS. The
    30-day
    public comment period on the NCA ended on July 17, 2010 and
    CMS has stated that the NCA process for ESAs will conclude on or
    before June 16, 2011, but CMS could propose a new NCD at
    any time prior to that deadline. Additionally, on
    January 19, 2011, CMS held another MEDCAC meeting, this
    time to review the available evidence on the impact of ESA use
    on renal transplant graft survival. This development continues
    CMS’s process of reviewing and evaluating potential changes
    in Medicare coverage policies for the use of ESAs in patients
    with CKD. We cannot predict if and when a new NCD will be issued
    or the details of any potentially changed coverage decisions for
    the use of ESAs in patients with CKD, including whether or how a
    new NCD could change CMS’s bundled payment system
    and/or the
    ESRD QIP. However, similar to the impact of the 2007 NCD on the
    use of ESAs in oncology, a new NCD around the use of ESAs to
    manage anemia in patients with CKD and dialysis-related anemia
    may negatively affect use, coverage and reimbursement,
    and/or
    product sales of our ESA products in the nephrology setting,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our business and
    results of operations.


 


    Further, the list of potential future NCDs issued by CMS in late
    2008 included the category of thrombopoiesis stimulating agents
    (platelet growth factors), the category of drugs that includes
    Nplate®,

    and a discussion on bisphosphonates used to treat osteoporosis.
    CMS has not announced whether it will proceed with an NCA
    related to





    
    42



Table of Contents





    thrombopoiesis stimulating agents and, while
    Prolia®

    is not a bisphosphonate, there is the possibility that CMS might
    evaluate other agents, including RANK Ligand inhibitors such as
    Prolia®

    and
    XGEVAtm.



 


    In the dialysis setting, the reimbursement rates for our
    products are also subject to downward pressure. In the United
    States, dialysis providers are reimbursed for
    EPOGEN®

    primarily by the federal government through the ESRD Program of
    Medicare. The ESRD Program reimburses approved dialysis
    providers for 80% of allowed dialysis costs while the remainder
    is paid by other sources, including patients, state Medicaid
    programs, private insurance and, to a lesser extent, state
    kidney patient programs. The ESRD Program reimbursement
    methodology is established by federal law and is implemented by
    CMS. Until January 1, 2011, Medicare reimbursed for
    separately billable dialysis drugs (including
    EPOGEN®

    and
    Aranesp®)

    administered in both freestanding and hospital-based dialysis
    centers at ASP+6%, using the same payment amount methodology
    used in the physician clinic setting under Part B. On
    January 1, 2011, CMS’s bundled payment system went
    into effect for dialysis facilities which provides a single
    payment for all dialysis services including drugs, supplies, and
    non-routine laboratory tests that were previously reimbursed
    separately. (See Reimbursement — Reimbursement of Our
    Principal Products — Dialysis Reimbursement.) Dialysis
    providers were given the choice of opting into the new bundled
    payment system in its entirety on January 1, 2011, or
    phasing in ratably over a four-year period beginning in 2011.
    Substantially all dialysis providers in the United States have
    opted into the bundled payment system in its entirety beginning
    in 2011. We expect that the implementation of the bundled
    payment system by ESRD facilities will have a material adverse
    impact on the reimbursement, use and sales of
    EPOGEN®

    beginning in 2011, and
    Sensipar®

    beginning in 2014.


 


    Additional initiatives addressing the coverage or reimbursement
    of our products could result in less extensive coverage or lower
    reimbursement, which could negatively affect sales of our
    products. For example, since April 2006, the Medicare
    reimbursement for ESAs administered to dialysis patients has
    also been subject to an EMP, the Medicare payment review
    mechanism used by CMS to monitor
    EPOGEN®

    and
    Aranesp®

    utilization and hematocrit outcomes of dialysis patients. CMS
    revised the EMP, effective January 2008, further limiting
    reimbursement for
    EPOGEN®

    and
    Aranesp®

    in certain cases. Further reduction in reimbursement in the
    dialysis setting could have a material adverse effect on sales
    of
    EPOGEN®

    and
    Aranesp®,

    and our business.


 


    If, for any of these or other reasons, reimbursement rates are
    reduced, or if healthcare providers anticipate reimbursement
    being reduced, providers may narrow the circumstances in which
    they prescribe or administer our products, which could reduce
    the use
    and/or sales
    of our products. A reduction in the use and sales of our
    products could have a material adverse effect on our business
    and our results of operations.


 



    Our
    current products and products in development cannot be sold if
    we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval.


 


    Our business is subject to extensive regulation by numerous
    state and federal governmental authorities in the United States,
    including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities,
    including the EMA. We are required in the United States and in
    foreign countries to obtain approval from regulatory authorities
    before we can manufacture, market and sell our products. Once
    approved, the FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory
    agencies have substantial authority to require additional
    testing, change product labeling or mandate withdrawals of our
    products. Also, legislative bodies or regulatory agencies could
    enact new laws or regulations or change existing laws or
    regulations at any time, which could affect our ability to
    obtain or maintain approval of our products. For example, the
    2007 creation of the FDAAA significantly added to the FDA’s
    authority, allowing the FDA to (i) require sponsors of
    marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies;
    (ii) mandate labeling changes to products and
    (iii) require sponsors to implement a REMS for a product.
    Failure to comply with FDAAA requirements could result in
    significant civil monetary penalties, reputational harm and
    increased product liability risk. Current policy discussions
    underway in the United States include debates about the
    implementation of the new, abbreviated pathway for biosimilars
    established under the new healthcare reform law; renegotiation
    of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, which governs the user
    fees pharmaceutical and biological companies pay to the FDA that
    provide a substantial portion of the FDA’s operating
    budget, in anticipation of re-authorization before
    September 30, 2012; and reforms to the regulations that
    govern diagnostics and medical devices which are sometimes used
    in conjunction with our products. We are unable to predict when
    and whether any changes to laws or regulatory policies affecting
    our business could occur, and such changes could have a material
    adverse impact on our business.




    
    43



Table of Contents





    Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval has been and will
    continue to be increasingly difficult, time-consuming and
    costly. For example, in October 2009 we received Complete
    Response Letters from the FDA for the BLA for
    Prolia®

    in the treatment and prevention of PMO and in the treatment and
    prevention of bone loss due to hormone ablation therapy
    (“HALT”) in breast and prostate cancer patients. The
    Complete Response Letter related to the PMO indication requested
    several items, including further information on the design and
    background adverse event rates to inform the methodology of our
    previously submitted post-marketing surveillance program. The
    FDA also requested a new clinical program to support the
    approval of
    Prolia®

    for the prevention of PMO, updated safety data and stated that a
    REMS is necessary for
    Prolia®.

    The Complete Response Letter related to the HALT indication
    requested additional information regarding the safety of
    Prolia®

    in patients with breast cancer receiving aromatase inhibitor
    therapy and patients with prostate cancer receiving Androgen
    Deprivation Therapy. The FDA specifically requested results from
    additional adequate and well-controlled clinical trials
    demonstrating that
    Prolia®

    has no detrimental effects on either time to disease progression
    or overall survival.


 


    In addition, there may be situations in which demonstrating the
    efficacy and safety of a product candidate may not be sufficient
    to gain regulatory approval unless superiority to comparative
    products can be shown. Further some of our products are approved
    by U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities on a conditional
    basis with full approval conditioned upon fulfilling
    requirements of regulators.
    Vectibix®,

    for example, received conditional approval in the United States
    and EU, with full approval conditioned on conducting additional
    clinical trials of the use of
    Vectibix®

    as a therapy in treating mCRC. (See Marketed Products and
    Selected Product Candidates —
    Vectibix®

    (panitumumab).) If we are unable to fulfill the requirements of
    regulators that were conditions of our products’
    accelerated or conditional approval, we may not receive full
    approval for these products and may be required to change the
    products’ labeled indications or even withdraw the products
    from the market. Further, some of our products or product
    candidates may be used with a companion diagnostic product, such
    as a test kit, or companion device, such as an injector or other
    delivery system. These product candidates or expanded
    indications of our products may not be approved if the companion
    diagnostic product or companion device does not gain or maintain
    regulatory approval. These companion diagnostics and devices may
    be provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party companies.
    We are dependent on the sustained cooperation and effort of
    those third-party companies in conducting the studies required
    for such approval by the applicable regulatory agencies. Delays
    in the studies or failure of the third-party company to obtain
    regulatory approval of the companion diagnostic or device could
    negatively impact the approval of our product candidate or the
    expanded indication of our product and we may incur increased
    development costs, delays in regulatory approval
    and/or
    associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market or
    the expansion of existing product labels for new indications.


 


    The occurrence of a number of high profile safety events has
    caused an increased public and governmental concern about
    potential safety issues relating to pharmaceutical and
    biological products and certain of our products and product
    candidates. (See Our ESA products continue to be under review
    and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.) As a result of
    this increased concern in recent years, the U.S. regulatory
    environment has evolved and safety signals and safety concerns
    resulting from clinical trials (including
    sub-analyses
    and meta-analyses), market use or other sources are receiving
    greater scrutiny. Actual or perceived safety problems could lead
    to revised or restrictive labeling of our approved products or a
    class of products, potentially including limitations on the use
    of approved products in certain patients because of:


 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy
    concerns with respect to any of our products by regulatory
    agencies




 



     
        •     

    
    an increased rate or number of previously-identified
    safety-related events




 



     
        •     

    
    the discovery of significant problems or safety signals or
    trends with a similar product that implicates an entire class of
    products







    
    44



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    subsequent concerns about the sufficiency of the data or studies
    underlying the label or changes to the underlying
    safety/efficacy analysis related to results from clinical
    trials, including
    sub-analyses,
    or meta-analysis (a meta-analysis is the review of studies using
    various statistical methods to combine results from previous
    separate but related studies) of clinical trials or clinical
    data performed by us or others




 



     
        •     

    
    new legislation or rules by regulatory agencies





 


    For example, in December 2009, based on the TREAT results, we
    updated the boxed warning in the labeling information for ESAs,
    to reflect an increased risk of stroke when ESAs are
    administered to CRF patients to target Hb levels of 13 g/dL and
    above. In October 2010, we submitted additional proposed
    labeling changes regarding the use of ESAs in CRF patients not
    on dialysis that would limit treatment to patients who are most
    likely to benefit, specifically those with significant anemia
    (<10 g/dL), and who are at high risk for transfusion and
    for whom transfusion avoidance is considered clinically
    important, including those in whom it is important to preserve
    kidney transplant eligibility. We are working with the FDA to
    determine the appropriate use of ESAs in CKD patients and to
    determine any future ESA labeling changes required in connection
    with TREAT or the CRDAC meeting. (See Our ESA products continue
    to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory
    authorities.)


 


    In addition to revised labeling for our products, discovery of
    new safety information or previously unknown safety concerns
    and/or
    safety signals with our products or similar products could also
    lead to:


 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    requirement of risk management activities (including a REMS) or
    other FDA compliance actions related to the promotion and sale
    of our products




 



     
        •     

    
    mandated PMCs or pharmacovigilance programs for our approved
    products




 



     
        •     

    
    product recalls of our approved products




 



     
        •     

    
    revocation of approval for our products from the market
    completely, or within particular therapeutic areas, and/or




 



     
        •     

    
    increased timelines or delays in being approved by the FDA or
    other regulatory bodies




 



     
        •     

    
    fewer treatments or product candidates being approved by
    regulatory bodies





 


    Product safety concerns could cause regulatory agencies to
    impose risk management activities upon us (including a REMS),
    which may require substantial costs and resources to negotiate,
    develop, implement and administer. The results of these risk
    management activities could:


 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    impact the ability of healthcare providers to prescribe,
    dispense or use our products




 



     
        •     

    
    limit patient access to our products




 



     
        •     

    
    reduce patient willingness to use our products




 



     
        •     

    
    place administrative burdens on healthcare providers in
    prescribing our products




 



     
        •     

    
    affect our ability to compete against products that do not have
    a REMS or similar risk management activities





 


    We currently have approved REMS for our ESAs, ENBREL,
    Prolia®

    and
    Nplate®,

    and we use third-party service providers to assist in the
    administration of our REMS that include elements to assure safe
    use. For example, our
    Nplate®

    and ESA REMS each require applicable healthcare providers and
    institutions to enroll in the program, receive education about
    the product and the REMS and document and report certain
    information to us over time. We are responsible for tracking and
    documenting certain elements of healthcare provider and
    institution compliance with the
    Nplate®

    and ESA REMS and providing the FDA with periodic assessment
    reports to demonstrate that the goals of the REMS are being met.
    If we or third-party service providers acting on our behalf fail
    to effectively implement
    and/or
    administer the REMS for our products, we may be required to
    modify such REMS, and we may be subject to FDA enforcement
    actions or to civil penalties.


 


    Further, if new medical data or product quality issues suggest
    an unacceptable safety risk or previously unidentified
    side-effects, we may withdraw some or all affected
    product — either voluntarily or by regulatory





    
    45



Table of Contents





    mandate — in certain therapeutic areas, or completely
    recall a product presentation from the market for some period or
    permanently. For example, in September 2009, we initiated a
    voluntary recall of a limited number of ENBREL
    SureClick®

    lots due to a defect in the glass syringe barrel which resulted
    in a small number of broken syringes following assembly of the
    autoinjector device. In October 2010, we initiated a voluntary
    recall of certain lots of ENBREL due to identification of cracks
    in a small number of the glass syringes which may have resulted
    in product leakage and syringe breakage. Further, beginning in
    September 2010, we initiated a voluntary recall of certain lots
    of
    EPOGEN®

    and J&J voluntarily recalled certain lots of
    PROCRIT®,

    manufactured by us, because a small number of vials in each lot
    were found to contain glass lamellae (extremely thin, barely
    visible glass flakes) which we believed was a result of the
    interaction of the formulation with glass vials during the shelf
    life of the product. The recalls were executed in close
    collaboration with the FDA. We may experience the same or other
    problems in the future, resulting in broader product recalls,
    adverse event trends, delayed shipments, supply constraints,
    contract disputes
    and/or
    stock-outs of our products, which may adversely affect the sales
    of our products. Additionally, if other parties (including our
    independent clinical trial investigators or our licensees, such
    as J&J, Pfizer, Glaxo, Takeda and Daiichi Sankyo) report or
    fail to effectively report to regulatory agencies side effects
    or other safety concerns that occur from their use of our
    products in clinical trials or studies or from marketed use,
    resulting regulatory action could adversely affect the sales of
    our products and our business and results of operations.


 


    If regulatory authorities determine that we have not complied
    with regulations in the R&D of a product candidate, a new
    indication for an existing product or information to support a
    current indication, they may not approve the product candidate
    or new indication or maintain approval of the current indication
    in its current form or at all, and we would not be able to
    market and sell it. If we were unable to market and sell our
    products or product candidates, our business and results of
    operations would be materially and adversely affected. Further,
    safety signals, trends, adverse events or results from clinical
    trials or studies performed by us or by others (including our
    licensees or independent investigators) from the marketed use of
    our drugs or similar products that result in revised
    safety-related labeling or restrictions on the use of our
    approved products could negatively impact healthcare provider
    prescribing behavior, use and sales of our products, regulatory
    or private health organization medical guidelines and
    reimbursement for our products all of which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations.


 



    Our ESA
    products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by
    regulatory authorities.


 


    Beginning in 2006, adverse safety results involving ESA products
    were observed and since that time our ESAs have been the subject
    of ongoing review and scrutiny by regulatory authorities and
    reimbursement agencies. In the United States, the FDA continues
    to review the benefit-risk profile of ESAs, which have resulted
    and could result in future changes to ESA labeling and usage.
    For example, we revised the labeling for our ESAs in August
    2008, as the FDA directed. In addition, in July 2007 CMS issued
    an NCD for non-renal ESAs that determined that ESA treatment was
    not reasonable and necessary for certain clinical conditions,
    and established Medicare coverage parameters for FDA-approved
    ESA use in oncology. Since these labeling and reimbursement
    changes, we experienced a substantial reduction in our ESA
    sales, in particular
    Aranesp®

    sales in the U.S. supportive cancer care setting. In
    October 2009, the results from TREAT, a phase 3 pivotal study of
    patients with CKD not on dialysis were published in the
    New England Journal of Medicine. The study failed to meet
    its primary objectives of demonstrating a reduction in all-cause
    mortality, cardiovascular morbidity, including heart failure,
    heart attack, stroke or hospitalization for myocardial ischemia,
    or time to ESRD. On December 16, 2009, based on the TREAT
    results, we updated the boxed warning in the labeling
    information for ESAs, to reflect an increased risk of stroke
    when ESAs are administered to CRF patients to target Hb levels
    of 13 g/dL and above. CMS held a MEDCAC meeting on
    March 24, 2010 to examine the currently available evidence
    on the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients who have CKD,
    which considered the results from the TREAT study, and on
    June 16, 2010, CMS opened a new NCA to examine the use of
    ESAs to manage anemia in patients with CKD and dialysis-related
    anemia. On October 18, 2010 the FDA’s CRDAC discussed
    the results from the TREAT study conducted in patients not on
    dialysis, and how those results informed the appropriate use of
    ESAs in patients with CKD. Prior to the CRDAC meeting, we
    submitted proposed labeling changes regarding the use of ESAs in
    CRF patients not on dialysis that would limit treatment to
    patients who are most likely to benefit, specifically those with
    significant anemia
    (<10 g/dL),
    and who are at high risk for transfusion and for whom
    transfusion avoidance is





    
    46



Table of Contents





    considered clinically important, including those in whom it is
    important to preserve kidney transplant eligibility. A variety
    of opinions regarding the appropriate use of ESAs in patients
    with CKD were offered at the CRDAC meeting by the various
    meeting participants. On January 19, 2011, CMS held another
    MEDCAC meeting, this time to review the available evidence on
    the impact of ESA use on renal transplant graft survival. (See
    Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party
    payers.) We are working with the FDA to determine the
    appropriate use of ESAs in CKD patients and we continue to
    cooperate with CMS in determining appropriate reimbursement for
    our ESAs. Although we cannot predict what impact all of these
    activities (including the revised ESA labeling; any future ESA
    labeling changes required in connection with TREAT or the CRDAC
    meeting or from our ongoing discussions with the FDA regarding
    the conversion of the format of our ESA U.S. labels in
    accordance with the Physician’s Labeling Rule; the outcome
    from the NCA or MEDCAC meetings, including an NCD; and the
    impact of the approved REMS for ESAs) could have on our
    business, these activities could, individually or together, have
    a material adverse impact on the coverage, reimbursement, use
    and/or sales
    of our ESAs, which would have a material adverse effect on our
    business and results of operations. (See Our current products
    and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain
    or gain regulatory approval.)


 


    We also have ongoing PMCs for our ESAs that must be conducted to
    maintain regulatory approval and marketing authorization. We
    have agreed with the FDA to a robust pharmacovigilance program
    to continue to study the safety surrounding the use of ESAs in
    the oncology setting and we initiated Study’782 as part of
    our
    Aranesp®

    pharmacovigilance program, a phase 3 non-inferiority study
    evaluating overall survival when comparing NSCLC patients on
    Aranesp®

    to patients receiving placebo. We continue to identify clinical
    sites for Study’782 and to enroll patients in the study. In
    addition, J&JPRD’s EPO-ANE-3010 study, which evaluates
    the use of Epoetin alfa in patients with breast cancer, is
    ongoing and is designated as an FDA PMC. Further, in 2008 the
    FDA and the EMA reviewed interim results from the Preoperative
    Epirubicin Paclitaxel
    Aranesp®

    (“PREPARE”) study in neo-adjuvant breast cancer, a PMC
    study, which were ultimately incorporated into the ESA labeling
    in both the United States and the EU. We received the final
    results from the PREPARE study in 2009, which were substantially
    consistent with the interim results, and provided that data to
    the FDA and EMA. Although we cannot predict the results or the
    outcomes of ongoing clinical trials, or the extent to which
    regulatory authorities may require additional labeling changes
    as a result of these or other trials, we cannot exclude the
    possibility that adverse results from clinical trials, including
    PMCs, could have a material adverse impact on the reimbursement,
    use and sales of our ESAs, which would have a material adverse
    effect on our business and results of operations.


 


    Regulatory authorities outside the United States have also
    reviewed and scrutinized the use of our ESA products. In June
    2008, the EMA recommended updating the product information for
    ESAs with a new warning for their use in cancer patients, which
    was approved by the EC in October 2008. The product information
    for all ESAs was updated to advise that, in some clinical
    situations, blood transfusions should be the preferred treatment
    for the management of anemia in patients with cancer and that
    the decision to administer ESAs should be based on a
    benefit-risk assessment with the participation of the individual
    patient. Since the October 2008 revision, we have experienced a
    reduction of
    Aranesp®

    sales in the supportive cancer care setting in the EU and,
    although we cannot predict what further impact the revised EU
    ESA product information could have on our business, the
    coverage, reimbursement, use and sales of
    Aranesp®

    in Europe could further be materially adversely affected, which
    would have a material adverse effect on our business and results
    of operations.


 


    Moreover, we continue to receive results from meta-analyses or
    previously initiated clinical trials using ESAs, including PMCs,
    and adverse results could negatively impact the use and sales of
    our ESAs. For example, in September 2008, we announced that we
    had received a summary of preliminary results from the Cochrane
    Collaboration’s independent meta-analysis of patient-level
    data from previously conducted, randomized, controlled, clinical
    studies evaluating ESAs in cancer patients which we submitted to
    the FDA and the EMA. This Cochrane meta-analysis of
    patient-level data from previous studies corroborates prior
    analyses indicating that the use of ESAs may increase the risk
    of death in cancer patients. The studies in the analysis all
    predate the current label, which advises using the least amount
    of ESA necessary to avoid transfusion but they do not exclude
    the potential for adverse outcomes when ESAs are prescribed
    according to the current label.




    
    47



Table of Contents






    We must
    conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize
    and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for
    new indications.


 


    Before we can sell any products, we must conduct clinical trials
    to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and
    effective for use in humans. The results of those clinical
    trials are used as the basis to obtain approval from regulatory
    authorities such as the FDA and EMA. (See Our current products
    and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain
    or gain regulatory approval.) We are required to conduct
    clinical trials using an appropriate number of trial sites and
    patients to support the product label claims. The length of
    time, number of trial sites and patients required for clinical
    trials vary substantially and therefore, we may spend several
    years and incur substantial expense in completing certain
    clinical trials. Delays in planned clinical trials can result in
    increased development costs, delays in regulatory approvals,
    associated delays in product candidates reaching the market and
    revisions to existing product labels. For example, in 2006 we
    delayed the start of our phase 3 trial in first-line NSCLC due
    to an increased frequency of cholecystitis (inflammation of the
    gall bladder) in patients treated with our late-stage product
    candidate motesanib. Following initiation of the trial in
    November 2008, enrollment in this phase 3 trial was temporarily
    suspended following a planned safety data review of
    600 patients by the study’s independent DMC. In
    February 2009, the DMC recommended the trial resume enrollment
    of patients with non-squamous NSCLC only, and in June 2009, we
    reinitiated enrollment in this patient population following an
    FDA-approved revision to the study protocol.


 


    In addition, in order to increase the number of patients
    available for enrollment for our clinical trials, we have and
    will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a
    number of new geographic locations where our experience
    conducting clinical trials is more limited, including Russia,
    India, East Asia and some Central and South American countries
    either through utilization of third-party contract clinical
    trial providers entirely or in combination with local staff.
    Conducting clinical trials in locations where we have limited
    experience requires substantial time and resources to identify
    and understand the unique regulatory environments of individual
    countries. Further, we must ensure the timely production,
    distribution and delivery of the clinical supply of our product
    candidates to the numerous and varied clinical trial sites. If
    we fail to adequately manage the design, execution and
    regulatory aspects of our large, complex and regulatorily
    diverse clinical trials or manage the production or distribution
    of our clinical supply, corresponding regulatory approvals may
    be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product
    candidates or could lose our ability to market existing products
    in certain therapeutic areas or altogether. If we are unable to
    market and sell our product candidates or are unable to obtain
    approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product
    strategies, our business and results of operations would be
    materially adversely affected. Additional information on our
    clinical trials can be found on our website at www.amgen.com.
    (This website address is not intended to function as a
    hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not
    intended to be a part of this filing.)


 


    Further, we rely on unaffiliated third-party vendors to perform
    certain aspects of our clinical trial operations. In the event
    that any of these vendors has unforeseen issues that negatively
    impact the quality of its work, our ability to evaluate clinical
    results may also be negatively impacted. As a result, this could
    adversely affect our ability to file for, gain or maintain
    regulatory approvals worldwide on a timely basis.


 


    Patients may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects
    in the course of our, our licensees, partners or independent
    investigator’s clinical trials which could:


 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    delay the clinical trial program




 



     
        •     

    
    require additional or longer trials to gain approval




 



     
        •     

    
    prohibit regulatory approval of our product candidates or new
    indications for existing products




 



     
        •     

    
    render the product candidate commercially unfeasible or limit
    our ability to market existing products completely or in certain
    therapeutic areas.





 


    Clinical trials must be designed based on the current standard
    of medical care. However in certain diseases, such as cancer,
    the standard of care is evolving rapidly. In these diseases, the
    duration of time needed to complete certain clinical trials may
    result in the design of such clinical trials being based on an
    out of date standard of medical





    
    48



Table of Contents





    care, limiting the utility and application of such trials. We
    may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and may not be
    able to obtain regulatory approval for new product candidates,
    new indications for existing products or maintenance of our
    current labels on this basis. Further, clinical trials conducted
    by others, including our licensees, partners or independent
    investigators, may result in unfavorable clinical trials results
    that may call into question the safety of our products in
    off-label or on label uses that may result in label restrictions
    and/or
    additional trials.


 


    Even after a product is on the market, safety concerns may
    require additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of
    a pharmacovigilance program of our product or for approval of a
    new indication. For example, we have initiated Study’782 as
    part of our
    Aranesp®

    pharmacovigilance program. (See Our ESA products continue to be
    under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.)
    Additional clinical trials we initiate, including those required
    by the FDA, could result in substantial additional expense and
    the outcomes could result in additional label restrictions or
    the loss of regulatory approval for an approved indication, each
    of which may have a material adverse effect on our business and
    results of operations. Additionally, any negative results from
    such trials could materially affect the extent of approvals, the
    use, reimbursement and sales of our products.


 



    We expect
    to face increasing competition from biosimilar products which
    could impact our profitability.


 


    We currently face competition in Europe from biosimilar
    products, and we expect to face increasing competition from
    biosimilars in the future. Lawmakers in the United States have
    recently enacted healthcare reform legislation which included an
    abbreviated regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars.
    The EU has already created such a regulatory pathway. To the
    extent that governments adopt more permissive approval
    frameworks and competitors are able to obtain broader marketing
    approval for biosimilars, our products will become subject to
    increased competition. Expiration or successful challenge of
    applicable patent rights could trigger such competition, and we
    could face more litigation regarding the validity
    and/or scope
    of our patents.


 


    In the EU, the EC has granted marketing authorizations for
    several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product
    class-specific
    guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few
    years. In 2006, the EMA developed and issued final regulatory
    guidelines related to the development and approval of biosimilar
    products. The final guidelines included clinical trial guidance
    for certain biosimilar products, including erythropoietins and
    G-CSFs, recommending that applicants seeking approval of such
    biosimilar products conduct pharmacodynamic, toxicological and
    clinical safety studies as well as a pharmacovigilance program.
    Some companies have received and other companies are seeking
    approval to market erythropoietin and G-CSF biosimilars in the
    EU, presenting additional competition for our products. (See Our
    marketed products face substantial competition.) For example,
    following the expiration of the principal European patent
    relating to recombinant G-CSF in August 2006, the EC issued
    marketing authorizations for the first G-CSF biosimilar products
    and the products were launched in certain EU countries in 2008
    and 2009. There are now several G-CSF biosimilars available in
    the EU marketed by different companies and these G-CSF
    biosimilar products compete with
    NEUPOGEN®

    and
    Neulasta®.

    Further, as in an effort to reduce costs, countries in the EU
    may in the future permit the automatic substitution by
    pharmacists of biosimilars for the corresponding innovator
    products. We cannot predict to what extent the entry of
    biosimilar products or other competing products will impact
    future sales of our products in the EU. Our inability to compete
    effectively could reduce sales, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations.


 


    On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the
    PPACA which authorized the FDA to approve biosimilar products
    under a new abbreviated pathway. The new law established a
    period of 12 years of data exclusivity for reference
    products in order to preserve incentives for future innovation
    and outlined statutory criteria for science-based biosimilar
    approval standards that take into account patient safety
    considerations. Under this framework, data exclusivity protects
    the data in the innovator’s regulatory application by
    prohibiting, for a period of 12 years, others from gaining
    FDA approval based in part on reliance or reference to the
    innovator’s data in their application to the FDA. The new
    law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic
    products. As part of the implementation process, the FDA
    published several questions in the Federal Register for public
    comment. The FDA held a public meeting in November 2010 to seek
    stakeholder input on the subject and accepted written comments
    through 2010. The agency has the authority to approve biosimilar
    products but has not announced whether it will first publish
    guidance or rules for biosimilar applicants before approving
    biosimilar products. With the likely introduction of biosimilars
    in the United States, we expect in the future to face greater
    competition from





    
    49



Table of Contents





    biosimilar products and downward pressure on our product prices,
    sales and revenues, subject to our ability to enforce our
    patents. Further, biosimilar manufacturers with approved
    products in Europe may seek to quickly obtain U.S. approval
    now that the regulatory pathway for biosimilars has been
    enacted. In addition, critics of the 12-year exclusivity period
    in the biosimilar pathway law will likely seek to shorten the
    data exclusivity period. President Obama’s proposed 2012
    budget includes a proposal to lower the data exclusivity period
    to seven years, but this would require new legislation be passed
    by the Congress. Critics may also encourage the FDA to interpret
    narrowly the law’s provisions regarding which new products
    receive data exclusivity.


 



    We may
    not be able to develop commercial products.


 


    Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is
    highly uncertain, and very few R&D projects produce a
    commercial product. We intend to continue to make significant
    R&D investments. Product candidates or new indications for
    existing products (collectively, “product candidates”)
    that appear promising in the early phases of development may
    fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical
    trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical
    trial results, for reasons that could include changes in the
    standard of care of medicine




 



     
        •     

    
    the product candidate was not effective or more effective than
    currently available therapies in treating a specified condition
    or illness




 



     
        •     

    
    the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing
    therapeutics




 



     
        •     

    
    the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or
    animals




 



     
        •     

    
    the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA or EMA, did not
    approve our product candidate for an intended use




 



     
        •     

    
    the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture
    and commercialize




 



     
        •     

    
    other parties have or may have proprietary rights relating to
    our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let
    us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all




 



     
        •     

    
    we and certain of our licensees, partners or independent
    investigators may fail to effectively conduct clinical
    development or clinical manufacturing activities




 



     
        •     

    
    the regulatory pathway to approval for product candidates is
    uncertain or not well-defined





 


    For example, after discussions with the FDA we have decided not
    to file for approval of motesanib in refractory thyroid cancer
    until there is more clarity on what would constitute an
    appropriate regulatory filing package for that indication.
    Further, several of our product candidates have failed or been
    discontinued at various stages in the product development
    process. For example, in June 2004, we announced that the phase
    2 study of Glial Cell Lined-Derived Neurotrophic Factor
    (“GDNF”) for the treatment of advanced
    Parkinson’s disease did not meet the primary study endpoint
    upon completion of nine months of the double-blind treatment
    phase of the study. The conclusion was reached even though a
    small phase 1 pilot investigator-initiated open-label study over
    a three-year period appeared to result in improvements for
    advanced Parkinson’s disease patients. Subsequently, we
    discontinued clinical development of GDNF in patients with
    advanced Parkinson’s disease.


 



    Our
    marketed products face substantial competition.


 


    We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products
    compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which
    our products may be indicated. Our competitors market products
    or are actively engaged in R&D in areas where we have
    products, where we are developing product candidates or new
    indications for existing products. In the future, we expect that
    our products will compete with new drugs currently in
    development, drugs currently approved for other indications that
    may later be approved for the same indications as those of our
    products and drugs approved for other indications that are used
    off-label. Large pharmaceutical companies and generic
    manufacturers of pharmaceutical products are expanding into the
    biotechnology field with increasing frequency. These companies
    may have greater resources than we do. In addition, some of our
    competitors may have technical





    
    50



Table of Contents





    or competitive advantages over us for the development of
    technologies and processes. These resources may make it
    difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover,
    develop and market new products and for our current products to
    compete with new products or new product indications that these
    competitors may bring to market. As a result, our products may
    compete against products that have lower prices, equivalent or
    superior performance, better safety profile, are easier to
    administer or that are otherwise competitive with our products.


 



    Concentration
    of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and
    consolidation of free-standing dialysis clinic businesses may
    negatively impact our bargaining power and profit
    margins.


 


    The substantial majority of our U.S. product sales are made
    to three pharmaceutical product wholesaler distributors,
    AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and
    McKesson Corporation. These distributors, in turn, sell our
    products to their customers, which include physicians or their
    clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. In
    addition, one of our products,
    EPOGEN®,

    is sold primarily to free-standing dialysis clinics, which have
    experienced significant consolidation. Two organizations, DaVita
    Inc. and Fresenius North America own or manage a large
    number of the outpatient dialysis facilities located in the
    United States and account for a substantial majority of all
    EPOGEN®

    sales in the free-standing dialysis clinic setting. Due to this
    concentration, these entities have substantial purchasing
    leverage, which may put pressure on our pricing by their
    potential ability to extract price discounts on our products or
    fees for other services, correspondingly negatively impacting
    our bargaining position and profit margins. In October 2006, we
    entered into a five-year sole sourcing and supply agreement with
    an affiliate of Fresenius North America, on its behalf and on
    behalf of certain of its affiliates, whereby they have agreed to
    purchase, and we have agreed to supply, all of Fresenius North
    America’s commercial requirements for ESAs for use in
    managing the anemia of its hemodialysis patients in the United
    States and Puerto Rico, based on forecasts provided by Fresenius
    North America and subject to the terms and conditions of the
    agreement.


 



    We rely
    on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials,
    medical devices and components.


 


    We rely on unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain raw
    materials, medical devices and components necessary for the
    manufacturing of our commercial and clinical products. Certain
    of those raw materials, medical devices and components are the
    proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers
    and are specifically cited in our drug application with
    regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that
    specific sole source or sources and could not be obtained from
    another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved
    such supplier.


 


    Among the reasons we may be unable to obtain these raw
    materials, medical devices and components include:


 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or
    others




 



     
        •     

    
    adverse financial or other strategic developments at or
    affecting the supplier




 



     
        •     

    
    unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical
    devices or components




 



     
        •     

    
    labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic
    flu outbreak, natural disaster, or otherwise




 



     
        •     

    
    failure to comply with our quality standards which results in
    quality and product failures, product contamination
    and/or recall




 



     
        •     

    
    discovery of previously unknown or undetected imperfections in
    raw materials, medical devices or components





 


    These events could adversely affect our ability to satisfy
    demand for our products, which could adversely affect our
    product use, sales and operating results materially. For
    example, we have experienced shortages in certain components
    necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our
    products in our Puerto Rico facility without impact on our
    ability to supply these products. Further, quality issues which
    result in unexpected additional demand for certain components
    may lead to shortages of required raw materials or components
    (such as we have experienced with
    EPOGEN®

    glass vials). We may experience or continue to experience these
    or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments,
    supply constraints, contract disputes
    and/or
    stock-outs of our products.





    
    51



Table of Contents





    Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial
    and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from
    other countries
    and/or
    derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues. In
    addition, one of our marketed products also uses bovine serum
    and human serum albumin. Some countries in which we market our
    products may restrict the use of certain biologically derived
    substances in the manufacture of drugs. We continue to
    investigate alternatives to certain biological sources and
    alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use
    of certain biologically derived substances because such raw
    materials may be subject to contamination
    and/or
    recall.


 


    A material shortage, contamination, recall
    and/or
    restriction of the use of certain biologically derived
    substances or other raw materials, which may be sourced from
    other countries and that are used in the manufacture of our
    products could adversely impact or disrupt the commercial
    manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated
    withdrawal of our products from the market. This could adversely
    affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which
    could adversely affect our product sales and operating results
    materially. Further, any disruptions or delays by us or by
    third-party suppliers or partners in converting to alternatives
    to certain biologically derived substances and alternative
    manufacturing processes or our ability to gain regulatory
    approval for the alternative materials and manufacturing
    processes could increase our associated costs or result in the
    recognition of an impairment in the carrying value of certain
    related assets, which could have a material and adverse affect
    on our results of operations.


 



    Manufacturing
    difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our
    products and limit our product sales.


 


    Manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult,
    complex and highly regulated. We currently manufacture all of
    our principal products and plan to manufacture many of our
    product candidates. In addition, we currently use third-party
    contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of
    ENBREL,
    Prolia®,

    Sensipar®/Mimpara®,

    Nplate®

    and
    XGEVAtm

    and plan to use contract manufacturers to produce or assist in
    the production of a number of our late-stage product candidates.
    Our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our
    products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient
    operation of our facilities and those of our third-party
    contract manufacturers, which may be impacted by:


 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    availability or contamination of raw materials, components and
    equipment used in the manufacturing process, particularly those
    for which we have no other source or supplier




 



     
        •     

    
    capacity of our facilities and those of our contract
    manufacturers




 



     
        •     

    
    contamination by microorganisms or viruses




 



     
        •     

    
    natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes or
    fires




 



     
        •     

    
    labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic
    flu outbreak, natural disaster, or otherwise




 



     
        •     

    
    degree of compliance with regulatory requirements




 



     
        •     

    
    changes in forecasts of future demand




 



     
        •     

    
    timing and actual number of production runs




 



     
        •     

    
    updating of manufacturing specifications




 



     
        •     

    
    production success rates and yields




 



     
        •     

    
    timing and outcome of product quality testing





 


    If the efficient manufacture and supply of our products is
    interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments, supply
    constraints, stock-outs
    and/or
    recalls of our products. For example, over the past several
    years we have initiated a number of voluntary recalls of certain
    lots of our products. (See Our current products and products in
    development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain
    regulatory approval.) If we are at any time unable to provide an
    uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose
    patients and physicians may elect to prescribe competing
    therapeutics instead of our products, which could materially and
    adversely affect our product sales and results of operations.




    
    52



Table of Contents





    Our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party
    contract manufacturers must undergo a potentially lengthy FDA or
    other regulatory approval process and are subject to continued
    review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. It can take
    longer than five years to build, validate and license a new
    manufacturing plant and it can take longer than three years to
    qualify and license a new contract manufacturer. For example, in
    order to maintain supply and to satisfy anticipated future
    demand for denosumab, we are qualifying the expansion of our
    existing bulk protein facilities at our Puerto Rico site. In
    addition, we are completing the construction and qualification
    of a new formulation and filling facility at our Puerto Rico
    site in order mitigate the risk associated with the majority of
    our formulation and fill operations being performed in a single
    facility. Upon completion, these facilities will require
    licensure by the various regulatory authorities.


 


    If regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party
    contract manufacturers or certain of our third-party service
    providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend
    or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from
    manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or
    selling our marketed products until we or the affected
    third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service
    providers comply, or indefinitely. Because our third-party
    contract manufacturers and certain of our third-party service
    providers are subject to the FDA and foreign regulatory
    authorities, alternative qualified third-party contract
    manufacturers and third-party service providers may not be
    available on a timely basis or at all. If we or our third-party
    contract manufacturers or third-party service providers cease or
    interrupt production or if our third-party contract
    manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply
    materials, products or services to us, we may experience delayed
    shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs
    and/or
    recalls of our products. Additionally, we distribute a
    substantial volume of our commercial products through a single
    distribution center in Louisville, Kentucky for the United
    States and another in Breda, the Netherlands for Europe and much
    of the rest of the world. We also conduct all the labeling and
    packaging of our products distributed in Europe and much of the
    rest of the world in Breda, the Netherlands. Our ability to
    timely supply products is dependent on the uninterrupted and
    efficient operations of our distribution and logistics centers,
    our third-party logistics providers and our labeling and
    packaging facility in Breda. Further, we rely on commercial
    transportation for the distribution of our products to our
    customers which may be negatively impacted by natural disasters,
    such as earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, or security threats.


 



    We
    perform a substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing
    activities at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility and a
    substantial amount of our clinical manufacturing activities at
    our Thousand Oaks, California manufacturing facility; if
    significant natural disasters or production failures occur at
    the Puerto Rico facility, we may not be able to supply these
    products or, at the Thousand Oaks facility, we may not be able
    to continue our clinical trials.


 


    We currently perform all of the formulation, fill and finish for
    EPOGEN®,

    Aranesp®,

    Neulasta®,

    NEUPOGEN®,

    Prolia®

    and
    XGEVAtm

    and substantially all of the formulation, fill and finish
    operations for ENBREL, and all of the bulk manufacturing for
    Aranesp®,

    Neulasta®,

    and
    NEUPOGEN®

    at our manufacturing facility in Juncos, Puerto Rico. In
    addition, we expect/plan to perform substantially all of the
    bulk manufacturing for
    Prolia®

    and
    XGEVAtm

    at the Puerto Rico facility once the facility has been approved
    by the FDA for that purpose. We also perform substantially all
    of the bulk manufacturing and formulation, fill and finish, and
    packaging for product candidates to be used in clinical trials
    at our manufacturing facility in Thousand Oaks, California. The
    global supply of our products and product candidates is
    significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient
    operation of these facilities. A number of factors could
    adversely affect our operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    power failures
    and/or other
    utility failures




 



     
        •     

    
    breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment




 



     
        •     

    
    improper installation or operation of equipment




 



     
        •     

    
    labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic
    flu outbreak




 



     
        •     

    
    inability or unwillingness of third-party suppliers to provide
    raw materials and components




 



     
        •     

    
    natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes or
    fires







    
    53



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    failures to comply with regulatory requirements, including those
    of the FDA





 


    In the past, the Puerto Rico facility has experienced
    manufacturing component shortages and there was evidence of
    adverse trends in the microbial bioburden of the production
    environment that reduced the production output. The same or
    other problems may result in our being unable to supply these
    products, which could adversely affect our product sales and
    operating results materially. Although we have obtained limited
    insurance to protect against certain business interruption
    losses, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be
    adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available
    on acceptable terms, if at all. The extent of the coverage of
    our insurance could limit our ability to mitigate for lost sales
    and such losses could materially adversely affect our product
    sales and operating results. Our Puerto Rico facility is also
    subject to the same difficulties, disruptions or delays in
    manufacturing experienced in our other manufacturing facilities.
    For example, the limited number of lots of ENBREL and
    EPOGEN®

    voluntarily recalled in 2009 and 2010 were manufactured at our
    Puerto Rico facility. In future inspections, our failure to
    adequately address the FDA’s expectations could lead to
    further inspections of the facility or regulatory actions. (See
    Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit
    supply of our products and limit our product sales.)


 



    If our
    intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated,
    circumvented or expire, or if we fail to prevail in present and
    future intellectual property litigation, our business could be
    adversely affected.


 


    Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend
    patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are
    important to the commercialization of our products and product
    candidates. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and
    biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often
    involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Third
    parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and
    patent applications relating to our products, product candidates
    and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not
    protect us against competitors with similar products or
    technologies because competing products or technologies may not
    infringe our patents. For certain of our product candidates,
    there are third parties who have patents or pending patent
    applications that they may claim necessitate payment of a
    royalty or prevent us from commercializing these product
    candidates in certain territories. Patent disputes are frequent,
    costly and can preclude, delay or increase the cost of
    commercialization of products. We are currently, and in the
    future may be, involved in patent litigation. (See
    Note 19, Contingencies and commitments in the notes
    to our consolidated financial statements in our annual report.)
    A patent dispute or litigation may not discourage a potential
    violator from bringing the product that is alleged to infringe
    to market prior to a final resolution of the dispute or
    litigation. For example, despite the ongoing litigation, Teva
    has stated that it intends to sell its filgrastim product, upon
    approval from the FDA, in the United States without a license
    from us and prior to the expiration of our G-CSF patents. The
    period of time from inception until resolution of a patent
    dispute or litigation is subject to the availability and
    schedule of the court, agency or tribunal before which the
    dispute or litigation is pending. We may be subject to
    competition during this period and may not be able to fully
    recover for the losses, damages, and harms we incur from
    infringement by the competitor product even if we prevail.
    Moreover, if we lose or settle current or future litigations at
    certain stages or entirely, we could be subject to competition
    and/or
    significant liabilities, be required to enter into third-party
    licenses for the infringed product or technology or be required
    to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In
    addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be
    available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.


 


    Further, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, products approved by the
    FDA under a NDA may be the subject of patent litigation with
    generic competitors before the five year period of data
    exclusivity provided for under the Hatch-Waxman Act has expired
    and prior to the expiration of the patents listed for the
    product.


 


    Over the next several years, the existing patents on our
    principal products will begin to expire. (See Item 1.
    Business — Marketed Products.) As our patents expire,
    competitors may be able to legally produce and market similar
    products or technologies, including biosimilars, which may
    result in a reduction in the use and sales of our products.
    While we have, and we continue to seek, additional patent
    protection on certain of our products, including for specific
    processes for making our products, formulations and particular
    uses of our products, competitors may be able to design around
    or otherwise circumvent any such additional patents and sell
    competing products. Although we continue to develop and obtain
    patent protection for new product candidates, we may not be able
    to replace the revenue lost upon the expiration of the patents
    on our current products.




    
    54



Table of Contents





    In recent years, policymakers have proposed reforming
    U.S. patent laws and regulations. For example, patent
    reform legislation was introduced in both the House and the
    Senate during the 111th Congress in 2009 but was not
    adopted into law. Legislation was again introduced in the Senate
    and passed the Senate Judiciary Committee on February 3,
    2011. In general, the proposed legislation attempts to address
    issues surrounding the increase in patent litigation by, among
    other things, establishing new procedures for challenging
    patents. While we cannot predict what form any new patent reform
    laws or regulations may ultimately take, final legislation could
    introduce new substantive rules and procedures for challenging
    patents, and certain reforms that make it easier for competitors
    to challenge our patents could have a material adverse effect on
    our business.


 



    Our
    business may be affected by litigation and government
    investigations.


 


    We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal
    proceedings. (See Note 19, Contingencies and commitments in
    the notes to our consolidated financial statements in our annual
    report.) Civil and criminal litigation is inherently
    unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts,
    fines, penalties, exclusion from the federal healthcare programs
    and/or
    injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business.
    Defense of litigation claims can be expensive, time-consuming
    and distracting and it is possible that we could incur judgments
    or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or
    change the way we operate our business, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    position or cash flows. In addition, product liability is a
    major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and
    pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product
    liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products
    that we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability
    claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert
    management’s attention, and adversely affect our reputation
    and the demand for our products. Amgen and Immunex have
    previously been named as defendants in product liability actions
    for certain of our products.


 


    We are also involved in government investigations that arise in
    the ordinary course of our business. We have received subpoenas
    from a number of government entities, including the
    U.S. Attorney’s Offices for the Eastern District of
    New York and the Western District of Washington, as well as the
    Attorneys General of New York and New Jersey. The federal
    subpoenas have been issued pursuant to the Health Insurance
    Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (18 U.S.C.
    3486), and by a federal grand jury, while the Attorneys General
    subpoenas have been issued pursuant to state specific statutes
    relating to consumer fraud laws and state false claims acts. The
    government is allowed to use materials produced in response to a
    section 3486 administrative subpoena in both criminal and
    civil investigations. In general, the subpoenas request
    documents relating to the sales and marketing of our products,
    and our collection and dissemination of information reflecting
    clinical research as to the safety and efficacy of our ESAs.
    Based on representations in a U.S. government filing, that
    became public in May 2009 relating to the Massachusetts Qui Tam
    Action, we now believe the subpoenas we received from the
    U.S. Attorney’s Offices for the Eastern District of
    New York and the Western District of Washington also relate to
    nine additional Qui Tam Actions which are purportedly pending
    against Amgen, including eight pending in the U.S. District
    Court for the Eastern District of New York and one pending in
    the U.S. District Court for the Western District of
    Washington. The U.S. government filing further alleges that
    a large number of states are involved in the Qui Tam
    investigations, led by the State of New York. These
    investigations are represented to be joint criminal and civil
    investigations.


 


    Throughout these investigations, and in litigation, the
    government entities are asserting that we violated various state
    and federal laws. These investigations are very burdensome,
    expensive and time-consuming for us to explain and defend to
    these entities. Although we cannot predict whether additional
    proceedings may be initiated against us, or predict when these
    matters may be resolved, it is not unusual for investigations
    such as these to continue for a considerable period of time and
    to require management’s attention and significant legal
    expense. A determination that we are in violation of the various
    federal and state laws that govern the sales and marketing of
    our products could result in federal criminal liability
    and/or
    federal or state civil or administrative liability, and thus
    could result in substantial financial damages or criminal
    penalties and possible exclusion from future participation in
    the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, we may see new
    governmental investigations of or actions against us citing
    novel theories of recovery. Any of these results could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    position or cash flows in the period in which such liabilities
    are incurred.




    
    55



Table of Contents






    Our stock
    price is volatile.


 


    Our stock price, like that of our peers in the biotechnology
    industry, is volatile. Our revenues and operating results may
    fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. Events
    such as a delay in product development or even a relatively
    small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period
    to be below our expectations or projections. As a result, our
    revenues and operating results and, in turn, our stock price may
    be subject to significant fluctuations.


 


    The capital and credit markets may experience extreme volatility
    and disruption which may lead to uncertainty and liquidity
    issues for both borrowers and investors. Historically, we have
    occasionally and opportunistically accessed the capital markets
    to support certain business activities including acquisitions,
    in-licensing activities, share repurchases and to refinance
    existing debt. In the event of adverse capital and credit market
    conditions, we may not be able to obtain capital market
    financing on similar favorable terms, or at all, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally
    recognized credit rating agencies could adversely affect our
    cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price
    of our securities.


 



    Current
    economic conditions may magnify certain risks that affect our
    business.


 


    Our operations and performance have been, and may continue to
    be, affected by economic conditions. Sales of our principal
    products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent
    of reimbursement from third-party payers, including government
    programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and private payer
    healthcare and insurance programs. (See Our sales depend on
    coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.) In the
    United States, there is an increased focus from the federal
    government and others on analyzing the impact of various
    regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result
    in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs.
    Financial pressures may cause government or other third-party
    payers to more aggressively seek cost containment through
    mandatory discounts on our products, policies requiring the
    automatic substitution of biosimilar or generic products or
    other similar measures. (See We expect to face increasing
    competition from biosimilar products which could impact our
    profitability.) Additionally, as a result of the current global
    economic downturn, our third-party payers may delay or be unable
    to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. A reduction in the
    availability or extent of reimbursement from government
    and/or
    private payer healthcare programs or increased competition from
    lower cost biosimilar products could have a material adverse
    affect on the sales of our products, our business and results of
    operations.


 


    We are exposed to sovereign risk in some European countries
    where we sell directly to public healthcare systems. Economic
    and fiscal conditions in these countries could affect the amount
    and timing of the collection of our receivables. For example,
    the government of Greece has issued one-, two- and three-year
    zero-coupon bonds to various pharmaceutical vendors in lieu of
    payment of past due receivables dating from 2007 to 2009.


 


    In addition, as a result of the economic downturn, some
    employers may seek to reduce costs by reducing or eliminating
    employer group healthcare plans or transferring a greater
    portion of healthcare costs to their employees. Job losses or
    other economic hardships may also result in reduced levels of
    coverage for some individuals, potentially resulting in lower
    levels of healthcare coverage for themselves or their families.
    These economic conditions may affect patients’ ability to
    afford healthcare as a result of increased co-pay or deductible
    obligations, greater cost sensitivity to existing co-pay or
    deductible obligations, lost healthcare insurance coverage or
    for other reasons. We believe such conditions have led and could
    continue to lead to changes in patient behavior and spending
    patterns that negatively affect usage of certain of our
    products, including delaying treatment, rationing prescription
    medications, leaving prescriptions unfilled, reducing the
    frequency of visits to healthcare facilities, utilizing
    alternative therapies
    and/or
    foregoing healthcare insurance coverage. In addition to its
    effects on consumers, the economic downturn may have also
    increased cost sensitivities among medical providers in the
    United States, such as oncology clinics, particularly in
    circumstances where providers may experience challenges in the
    collection of patient co-pays or be forced to absorb treatment
    costs as a result of coverage decisions or reimbursement terms.
    Collectively, we believe these changes have resulted and may
    continue to result in reduced demand for our products, which
    could continue to adversely affect our business and results of
    operations. Any resulting decrease in demand





    
    56



Table of Contents





    for our products could also cause us to experience excess
    inventory write-offs
    and/or
    excess capacity or impairment charges at certain of our
    manufacturing facilities.


 


    Additionally, we rely upon third-parties for certain parts of
    our business, including licensees and partners, wholesale
    distributors of our products, contract clinical trial providers,
    contract manufacturers and single third-party suppliers. Because
    of the recent volatility in the financial markets, there may be
    a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of
    commitments to us by these third-parties which could have a
    material adverse affect on our business and results of
    operations. Current economic conditions may adversely affect the
    ability of our distributors, customers and suppliers to obtain
    liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials and to
    perform their obligations under agreements with us, which could
    disrupt our operations. Further, economic conditions appear to
    have affected, and may continue to affect, the business
    practices of our wholesale distributors in a manner that has and
    may continue to contribute to lower sales of our products. For
    example, in the first quarter of 2009, certain of our wholesale
    distributors lowered their levels of inventory on hand, which we
    believe was done to reduce their carrying costs and improve
    their results of operations. Although we monitor our
    distributors’, customers’ and suppliers’
    financial condition and their liquidity in order to mitigate our
    business risks, some of our distributors, customers and
    suppliers may become insolvent, which could negatively impact
    our business and results of operations.


 


    We maintain a significant portfolio of investments disclosed as
    cash equivalents and marketable securities on our Consolidated
    Balance Sheet. The value of our investments may be adversely
    affected by interest rate fluctuations, downgrades in credit
    ratings, illiquidity in the capital markets and other factors
    that may result in other than temporary declines in the value of
    our investments. Any of those events could cause us to record
    impairment charges with respect to our investment portfolio or
    to realize losses on the sale of investments.


 



    Guidelines
    and recommendations published by various organizations can
    reduce the use of our products.


 


    Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines
    directly applicable to us and to our products. However,
    professional societies, health technology assessment
    organizations, practice management groups, insurance carriers,
    physicians, private health/science foundations and organizations
    involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish
    guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers,
    administrators and payers, and patient communities.
    Recommendations by government agencies or those other
    groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage,
    dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies as
    well as reimbursement of our products by government and private
    payers. Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by
    patients, healthcare providers and payers could result in
    decreased use
    and/or
    dosage of our products. Some examples of agency and
    organizational guidelines include:


 




    
    
    



     
        •     

    
    In August 2007, the National Kidney Foundation (“NKF”)
    distributed to the nephrology community final updated Kidney
    Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (“KDOQI”) clinical
    practice guidelines and clinical practice recommendations for
    anemia in CKD. The
    NKF-KDOQItm

    Anemia Work Group recommended in its 2007 Update to the
    NKF-KDOQItm

    Anemia Management Guidelines that physicians target Hb in the
    range of 11 g/dL to 12 g/dL, and also stipulated that the target
    not be above 13 g/dL.




 



     
        •     

    
    In December 2008, the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes
    group (“KDIGO”), a
    not-for-profit
    foundation managed by NKF, announced that it was developing a
    new global anemia guideline. The announcement stated that an
    updated anemia guideline is necessary in light of new study
    results, particularly the data from the TREAT trial, which had
    become available since the
    NKF-KDOQItm’s

    clinical practice guidelines and clinical practice
    recommendations for anemia in CKD were released. KDIGO has
    stated that its new guidelines are expected to be released for
    public review and comment in early to mid-2011 and that final
    guidelines could be available by early 2012.




 



     
        •     

    
    In February 2007, following the reported results from our Anemia
    of Cancer 103 Study, the U.S. Pharmacopoeia Dispensing
    Information Drug Reference Guides removed
    Aranesp®

    in the treatment of anemia of cancer.







    
    57



Table of Contents




 


    In addition, Health Technology Assessment organizations, such as
    NICE in the United Kingdom and the Canadian Agency for Drugs and
    Technologies in Health, make reimbursement recommendations to
    payers in their jurisdictions based on the clinical
    effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and service impact of new,
    emerging and existing medicines and treatments.


 


    Any recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use,
    dosage or reimbursement of our products could adversely affect
    our product sales and operating results materially. In addition,
    the perception by the investment community or stockholders that
    such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use
    and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market
    price for our common stock.


 



    The
    commercialization of certain of our product candidates and the
    marketing of certain of our products is dependent in part on our
    partners.


 


    We have entered into agreements with third parties to assist in
    the commercialization of certain of our product candidates and
    the marketing of certain of our products in specified geographic
    areas. (See Business Relationships.) Many of these agreements
    involve the sharing of certain decisions and a division of
    responsibilities, costs and benefits. If our partners fail to
    effectively deliver on their marketing and commercialization
    commitments to us or if we and our partners fail to coordinate
    our efforts effectively, sales of our products may be materially
    adversely affected.


 


    Our corporate compliance and risk mitigation programs cannot
    guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially
    applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and all
    potentially applicable foreign regulations
    and/or that
    we effectively manage all operational risks.


 


    The development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales,
    marketing and reimbursement of our products, together with our
    general operations, are subject to extensive federal and state
    regulation in the United States and to extensive regulation in
    foreign countries. (See Our current products and products in
    development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain
    regulatory approval and Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions
    or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our
    product sales.) While we have developed and instituted a
    corporate compliance program, we cannot guarantee that we, our
    employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in
    compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and
    state regulations
    and/or laws
    or all potentially applicable foreign regulations
    and/or laws.
    If we or our agents fail to comply with any of those regulations
    and/or laws,
    a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to,
    the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a
    product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing
    processes, withdrawal of our products from the market,
    significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs
    or other sanctions or litigation. Additionally, while we have
    implemented numerous risk mitigation measures, we cannot
    guarantee that we will be able to effectively mitigate all
    operational risks. If we fail to effectively mitigate all
    operational risks, our product supply may be materially
    adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect
    on our product sales and results of operations.


 



    Continual
    process improvement efforts may result in the carrying value of
    certain existing manufacturing facilities or other assets
    becoming impaired or other related charges being
    incurred


 


    Our business continues to face many challenges. In response to
    these challenges, we have worked and continue to work to improve
    cost efficiencies and to reduce discretionary expenditures. As
    part of those efforts, we undertake continuous process
    improvement activities to evaluate our processes and procedures
    in order to identify opportunities for achieving greater
    efficiencies in how we conduct our business. In particular, we
    evaluate our manufacturing operations to identify opportunities
    to increase production yields
    and/or
    success rates as well as capacity utilization. Depending on the
    timing and outcomes of these process improvement initiatives,
    the carrying value of certain manufacturing or other assets may
    not be fully recoverable and could result in the recognition of
    impairment
    and/or other
    related charges. The recognition of such charges, if any, could
    have a material adverse affect on our results of operations.




    
    58



Table of Contents






    The
    adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax
    liabilities could affect our profitability.


 


    We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States
    and other jurisdictions in which we do business. Our provision
    for income taxes and results of operations in the future could
    be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure,
    changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing
    statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax
    assets and liabilities, and changes in applicable tax laws. In
    addition, President Obama’s administration has announced
    proposals for U.S. tax legislation that, if adopted, could
    adversely affect our provision for income taxes. There are also
    other tax proposals that have been introduced, that are being
    considered, or that have been enacted by the U.S. Congress
    or the legislative bodies in foreign jurisdictions that could
    materially adversely affect our provision for income taxes, tax
    liabilities or our results of operations. For example, the
    Commonwealth of Puerto Rico recently enacted tax legislation
    effective on January 1, 2011 that, in certain
    circumstances, imposes a temporary excise tax for companies that
    purchase products from related Puerto Rico manufacturers.


 




    Item 1B