Item 1A. Risk Factors.

If any
of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these
events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.  In
such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline.  Based on the information currently known to
us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant
risk factors affecting our company in each of these categories of risk.  However, the risks and uncertainties our
company faces are not limited to those described below.  Additional risks and uncertainties not
presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also
adversely affect our business.

Risks Relating to Our Business

Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely
affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors.

                Our financial condition and
results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by
economic and other factors.  Many such
factors of a global or localized nature include: political, economic and market
conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of
equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other
market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of
credit; inflation; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets;
terrorism events and armed conflicts; and natural disasters such as weather
catastrophes and widespread health emergencies. 
Furthermore, changes in consumer economic variables, such as the number
and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, decreases in
property values, and the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may
substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality, which, in turn,
could impact the results of our banking business.  These factors also may have an impact on our
ability to achieve our strategic objectives.

Certain
of our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment and banking
products are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and our future costs
associated with such variations may differ from our historical costs.  In addition, interest rate fluctuations could
result in fluctuations in the valuation of certain minimum guaranteed benefits
contained in some of our variable annuity products.

During
periods of increasing market interest rates, we must offer higher crediting
rates on interest-sensitive products, such as fixed universal life insurance,
fixed annuities, face-amount certificates and certificates of deposit, and we
must increase crediting rates on in-force products to keep these products
competitive.  Because returns on invested
assets may not increase as quickly as current interest rates, we may have to
accept a lower spread and thus lower profitability or face a decline in sales
and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets.  In addition, increases in market interest
rates may cause increased policy surrenders, withdrawals from life insurance
policies, annuity contracts and certificates of deposit and requests for policy
loans, as policyholders, contractholders and depositors seek to shift assets to
products with perceived higher returns. 
This process may lead to an earlier than expected flow of cash out of
our business.  Also, increases in market
interest rates may result in extension of certain cash flows from structured
mortgage assets.  These withdrawals and
surrenders may require investment assets to be sold at a time when the prices
of those assets are lower because of the increase in market interest rates,
which may result in realized investment losses. 
Increases in crediting rates, as well as surrenders and withdrawals,
could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations.  An increase in surrenders
and withdrawals also may require us to accelerate amortization of deferred
acquisition costs or other intangibles or cause an impairment of goodwill,
which would increase our expenses and reduce our net earnings.

During
periods of falling interest rates, our “spread,” or the difference between the
returns we earn on the investments that support our obligations under these
products and the amounts that we must pay policyholders, contractholders and
depositors, may be reduced or could become negative, primarily because some of
these products have guaranteed minimum crediting rates.


 32 






Interest
rate fluctuations also could have an adverse effect on the results of our
investment portfolio.  During periods of
declining market interest rates, the interest we receive on variable interest
rate investments decreases.  In addition,
during those periods, we are forced to reinvest the cash we receive as interest
or return of principal on our investments in lower-yielding high-grade
instruments or in lower-credit instruments to maintain comparable returns.  Issuers of certain callable fixed income
securities also may decide to prepay their obligations in order to borrow at
lower market rates, which exacerbates the risk that we may have to invest the
cash proceeds of these securities in lower-yielding or lower-credit
instruments.

Significant
downturns and volatility in equity markets could have an adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. 
Market downturns and volatility may cause potential new purchasers of
our products to refrain from purchasing products, such as mutual funds,
variable annuities and variable universal life insurance, that have returns
linked to the performance of the equity markets.  Downturns may also cause current shareholders
in our mutual funds and contractholders in our annuity and protection products
to withdraw cash values from those products.

Additionally,
downturns and volatility in equity markets can have an adverse effect on the
revenues and returns from our asset management services, wrap accounts, and
variable annuity contracts.  Because the
profitability of these products and services depends on fees related primarily
to the value of assets under management, declines in the equity markets will
reduce our revenues because the value of the investment assets we manage will
be reduced.  In addition, some of our
variable annuity products contain guaranteed minimum death benefits and
guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal and accumulation benefits.  A significant equity market decline could
result in guaranteed minimum benefits being higher than what current account
values would support, thus producing a loss as we pay the benefits, having an
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Although we have hedged a portion of the
guarantees for the variable annuity contracts in order to mitigate the
financial loss of an equity markets decline, there can be no assurance that
such a decline would not materially impact the profitability of certain
products or product lines.

We
believe that investment performance is an important factor in the growth of our
Asset Accumulation and Income business. 
Poor investment performance could impair our revenues and earnings, as
well as our prospects for growth.  A
significant portion of our revenue is derived from investment management
agreements with the RiverSource family of mutual funds that are terminable on
60 days’ notice.  In addition,
although some contracts governing investment management services are subject to
termination for failure to meet performance benchmarks, institutional and
individual clients can generally terminate their relationships with us or our
financial advisors at will or on relatively short notice.  Our clients can also reduce the aggregate
amount of managed assets or shift their funds to other types of accounts with
different rate structures, for any number of reasons, including investment
performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, changes in investment
preferences, changes in our (or our financial advisors’) reputation in the
marketplace, changes in client management or ownership, loss of key investment
management personnel and financial market performance.  A reduction in managed assets, and the
associated decrease in revenues and earnings, could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

In
addition, during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the
level of individual investor participation in the global markets may also
decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our retail
businesses.  Fluctuations in global
market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets
under management and the way customers allocate capital among money market,
equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively
impact our Asset Accumulation and Income business.  Also, during periods of unfavorable economic
conditions, unemployment rates often increase, which can result in higher loan
delinquency and default rates, and this can have a negative impact on our
banking business.

Defaults in our
fixed income securities portfolio or consumer credit products would adversely
affect our earnings.

Issuers
of the fixed income securities that we own may default on principal and
interest payments.  As of
December 31, 2006, 7% of our available-for-sale fixed income investment
portfolio had ratings below investment-grade. 
Moreover, economic downturns and corporate malfeasance can increase the
number of companies, including those with investment-grade ratings, that
default on their debt obligations.  As of
December 31, 2006, we had fixed income securities in or near default
(where the issuer had missed payment of principal or interest or entered
bankruptcy) with a fair value of $37 million.  Default-related declines in the value of our
fixed income securities portfolio or consumer credit products could cause our
net earnings to decline and could also cause us to contribute capital to some
of our regulated subsidiaries, which may require us to obtain funding during
periods of unfavorable market conditions. 
Higher delinquency and default rates in our bank’s loan portfolio could
require us to contribute capital to Ameriprise Bank and may result in
additional restrictions from our regulators that impact the use and access to
that capital.


 33










If the
counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements or to the derivative instruments
we use to hedge our business risks default, we may be exposed to risks we had
sought to mitigate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and
results of operations.

We use
reinsurance to mitigate our risks in various circumstances as described in Item
1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K— “Our Solutions—Protection
Segment—Reinsurance.” Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability
to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us.  Accordingly, we bear credit and performance
risk with respect to our reinsurers.  A
reinsurer’s insolvency or its inability or unwillingness to make payments under
the terms of our reinsurance agreement could have an adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations that could be material.  See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements included in our 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders.

In
addition, we use a variety of derivative instruments to hedge several business
risks.  If our counterparties fail to
honor their obligations under the derivative instruments, our hedges of the
related risk will be ineffective.  That
failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations that could be material.

Some of our
investments are relatively illiquid.

We
invest a portion of our owned assets in certain privately placed fixed income
securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, limited partnership interests,
collateralized debt obligations and restricted investments held by
securitization trusts, among others, all of which are relatively illiquid.  These asset classes represented 14% of the
carrying value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2006.  If we require significant amounts of cash on
short notice in excess of our normal cash requirements, we may have difficulty
selling these investments in a timely manner, or be forced to sell them for an
amount less than we would otherwise have been able to realize, or both, which
could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations.

Intense competition
and the economics of changes in our product revenue mix and distribution
channels could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our market
share and profitability.

Our
businesses operate in intensely competitive industry segments.  We compete based on a number of factors
including name recognition, service, the quality of investment advice,
investment performance, product features, price, perceived financial strength,
and claims-paying and credit ratings. 
Our competitors include broker-dealers, banks, asset managers, insurers
and other financial institutions.  Many
of our businesses face competitors that have greater market share, offer a
broader range of products, have greater financial resources, or have higher
claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. 
In addition, over time certain sectors of the financial services
industry have become considerably more concentrated, as financial institutions
involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged
into other firms.  This convergence could
result in our competitors gaining greater resources and we may experience pressures
on our pricing and market share as a result of these factors and as some of our
competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices.

Currently,
our branded advisor network distributes annuity and protection products issued
almost exclusively by our RiverSource Life companies.  If our branded advisor network further opened
or expanded its distribution of annuity and protection products of other
companies, we could experience lower sales of our companies’ products or other
developments which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.

A drop in investment performance as compared to our competitors could
negatively impact our ability to increase profitability.

Sales
of our own mutual funds by our affiliated financial advisor network have
recently improved as a percentage of our total mutual fund sales.  We attribute this success to improved
investment performance and marketing efforts. 
A decline in the level of investment performance as compared to our
competitors could cause a decline in market share and a commensurate drop in
profits as sales of other companies’ mutual funds are less profitable than
those from our own mutual funds.  A
decline in investment performance could also adversely affect the realization
of benefits from investments in our strategy to expand alternative distribution
channels for our own products, including third-party distribution of our mutual
funds.

We face intense
competition in attracting and retaining key talent.

We are
dependent on our network of branded advisors for a significant portion of the
sales of our mutual funds, annuities, face-amount certificates, banking and
insurance products.  In addition, our
continued success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to attract and
retain qualified personnel to conduct our fund management and investment
advisory businesses, as well as senior management.  The market for financial advisors, registered
representatives, management talent, qualified legal and compliance professionals,
fund managers, and investment analysts is extremely


 34 






competitive and
has grown more so in recent periods due to industry growth.  If we are unable to attract and retain
qualified individuals or our recruiting and retention costs increase
significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be
materially adversely affected.

Our businesses are
heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability,
limit our growth, or impact our ability to pay dividends or achieve targeted
return-on-equity levels.

We
operate in highly regulated industries, and are required to obtain and maintain
licenses for many of the businesses we operate in addition to being subject to
regulatory oversight.  Securities
regulators have significantly increased the level of regulation in recent years
and have several outstanding proposals for additional regulation.  Significant discussion and activity by
regulators concerns the sale of financial products and services to persons
planning for retirement, as well as to older investors.  In addition, we are subject to heightened
regulatory requirements relating to privacy and the protection of customer
data.  These regulations, as well as
possible legislative or regulatory changes, may constrain our ability to market
our products and services to our target demographic and potential customers,
and could negatively affect our profitability and make it more difficult for us
to pursue our growth strategy.

Our
insurance companies are subject to state regulation, so must comply with
statutory reserve and capital requirements. 
State regulators are continually reviewing and updating these
requirements.  Moreover, our life
insurance companies are subject to capital requirements for variable annuity
contracts with guaranteed death or living benefits.  These requirements may have an impact on
future statutory reserves and regulatory capital in the event equity market
values fall in the future.  Moreover,
there is active discussion at the NAIC of moving to a principles-based
reserving system.  This could change
statutory reserve requirements significantly, and it is not possible to
estimate the impact at this time. 
Further, we cannot predict the effect that proposed federal legislation,
such as the option of federally chartered insurers, may have on our insurance
businesses or their competitors.

Compliance
with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and
personnel-intensive.  Changes in these
laws and regulations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance
and other expenses of doing business. 
Our financial advisors may decide that the direct cost of compliance and
the indirect cost of time spent on compliance matters outweigh the benefits of
a career as a financial advisor, which could lead to financial advisor
attrition.  The costs of the compliance
requirements we face, and the constraints they impose on our operations, could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations.

In
addition, we may be required to reduce our fee levels, or restructure the fees
we charge, as a result of regulatory initiatives or proceedings that are either
industry-wide or specifically targeted at our company.  Reductions or other changes in the fees that
we charge for our products and services could reduce our revenues and
earnings.  Moreover, in the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we received $1.3 billion,
$1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, in distribution fees.  A significant portion of these revenues was
paid to us by our own RiverSource family of mutual funds in accordance with
plans and agreements of distribution adopted under Rule 12b-1 promulgated
under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or Rule 12b-1.  We believe that these fees are a critical
element in the distribution of our own mutual funds.  However, an industry-wide reduction or
restructuring of Rule 12b-1 fees could have a material adverse effect on
our ability to distribute our own mutual funds and the fees we receive for
distributing other companies’ mutual funds, which could, in turn, have an
adverse effect on our revenues and earnings.

Consumer
lending activities at our bank are subject to applicable laws as well as
regulation by various regulatory bodies. 
Changes in laws or regulation could affect our bank’s ability to conduct
business.  These changes could include
but are not limited to our bank’s ability to market and sell products, fee
pricing or interest rates that can be charged on loans outstanding, changes in
communicating with customers that affect payments, statements and collections
of loans, and changes in accounting for the consumer lending business.

For a
further discussion of the regulatory framework in which we operate, see Item 1
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K— “Regulation.”

A failure to appropriately deal
with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses.

Our
reputation is one of our most important assets. 
As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we
increasingly have to address potential conflicts of interest, including those
relating to our proprietary activities and those relating to our sales of
non-proprietary products from manufacturers that have agreed to provide us
marketing, sales, and account maintenance support.  For example, conflicts may arise between our
position as a provider of financial planning products and a manufacturer and/or
distributor or broker of asset accumulation, income or insurance products that
one of our affiliated financial advisors may recommend to a financial planning
client.  We have procedures and controls
that are designed to address conflicts of interest.  However, appropriately dealing with conflicts
of interest is complex and our


 35 






reputation could
be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts
of interest.  In addition, the SEC and
other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential
conflicts of interest.  It is possible
that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or
enforcement actions.  It is possible also
that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, conflicts
of interest will make our clients less willing to enter into transactions in
which such a conflict may occur, and will adversely affect our businesses.

Misconduct by our
employees and affiliated financial advisors is difficult to detect and deter
and could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.

Misconduct
by our employees and affiliated financial advisors could result in violations
of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial
harm.  Misconduct can occur in each of
our businesses and could include:

·                  binding
us to transactions that exceed authorized limits;

·                  hiding
unauthorized or unsuccessful activities resulting in unknown and unmanaged
risks or losses;

·                  improperly
using or disclosing confidential information;

·                  recommending
transactions that are not suitable;

·                  engaging
in fraudulent or otherwise improper activity;

·                  engaging
in unauthorized or excessive trading to the detriment of customers; or

·                  otherwise
not complying with laws or our control procedures.

We
cannot always deter misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial
advisors, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may
not be effective in all cases. 
Prevention and detection among our branded franchisee advisors and our
unbranded affiliated financial advisors, who are not employees of our company
and tend to be located in small, decentralized offices, present additional
challenges.  We also cannot assure that
misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors will not lead to
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial
condition.

Legal and
regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could result in financial
losses or harm our businesses.

We
are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the
ordinary course of our operations, both domestically and internationally.  Various regulatory and governmental bodies
have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of
our employees and independent financial advisors and to bring regulatory or
other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of
our employees or affiliated financial advisors, are improper.  Pending legal and regulatory actions include
proceedings relating to aspects of our businesses and operations that are
specific to us and proceedings that are typical of the industries and businesses
in which we operate.  Some of these
proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of
complainants.  In certain of these
matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts,
including punitive or exemplary damages. 
See Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K— “Legal Proceedings.”
Substantial legal liability in these or future legal or regulatory actions
could have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant
reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects.

A downgrade or a
potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could adversely
affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Financial
strength ratings, which various ratings organizations publish as a measure of
an insurance company’s ability to meet contractholder and policyholder
obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products,
the ability to market our products and our competitive position.  Any downgrade in our financial strength
ratings, or the announced potential for a downgrade, could have a significant
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many
ways, including:

·                  reducing new sales of insurance
products, annuities and investment products;

·                  adversely affecting our relationships
with our affiliated financial advisors and third-party distributors of our
products;


 36 






·                  materially increasing the number or
amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;

·                  requiring us to reduce prices for
many of our products and services to remain competitive; and

·                  adversely affecting our ability to
obtain reinsurance or obtain reasonable pricing on reinsurance.

A
downgrade in our credit ratings could also adversely impact our future cost and
speed of borrowing and have an adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and liquidity.

If our reserves for
future policy benefits and claims, or for our bank lending portfolio, are
inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserve liabilities, which could
adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

We
establish reserves as estimates of our liabilities to provide for future
obligations under our insurance policies, annuities and investment certificate
contracts.  We also establish reserves as
estimates of the potential for loan losses in our consumer lending
portfolios.  Reserves do not represent an
exact calculation, but rather are estimates of contract benefits or loan losses
and related expenses we expect to incur over time.  The assumptions and estimates we make in
establishing reserves require certain judgments about future experience and,
therefore, are inherently uncertain.  We
monitor our reserve levels continually.  If we were to conclude that our reserves are
insufficient to cover actual or expected contract benefits or loan collections,
we would be required to increase our reserves and potentially incur income
statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which
could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  For more information on how we set our
reserves, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in
our 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Morbidity rates or
mortality rates that differ significantly from our pricing expectations could
negatively affect profitability.

We set
prices for RiverSource life insurance, disability income insurance and some
annuity products based upon expected claim payment patterns, derived from
assumptions we make about the morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness, and
mortality rates, or likelihood of death, of our policyholders and
contractholders.  The long-term
profitability of these products depends upon how our actual experience compares
with our pricing assumptions.  For
example, if morbidity rates are higher, or mortality rates are lower, than our
pricing assumptions, we could be required to make greater payments under disability
income insurance policies and immediate annuity contracts than we had
projected.  The same holds true for long
term care policies we previously underwrote to the extent of the risks that we
have retained.  If mortality rates are
higher than our pricing assumptions, we could be required to make greater
payments under our life insurance policies and annuity contracts with
guaranteed minimum death benefits than we had projected.

The
risk that our claims experience may differ significantly from our pricing
assumptions is particularly significant for our long term care insurance
products notwithstanding our ability to implement future price increases.  As with life insurance, long term care
insurance policies provide for long-duration coverage and, therefore, our
actual claims experience will emerge over many years.  However, as a relatively new product in the
market, long term care insurance does not have the extensive claims experience
history of life insurance, and, as a result, our ability to forecast future
claim rates for long term care insurance is more limited than for life
insurance.  We have sought to moderate
these uncertainties to some extent by partially reinsuring long-term care
policies we previously underwrote and by limiting our present long term care
insurance offerings to policies underwritten fully by an unaffiliated third
party, and we have also implemented rate increases on certain in-force policies
as described in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K— “Our
Solutions—Protection Segment—RiverSource Life—Long Term Care Insurance”.  There can be no assurance that we will not be
required to implement additional rate increases in the future or that we will
receive regulatory approval to the full extent and timing of any rate increases
that we may seek.

We may face losses
if there are significant deviations from our assumptions regarding the future
persistency of our insurance policies and annuity contracts.

The
prices and expected future profitability of our life insurance and deferred
annuity products are based in part upon assumptions related to
persistency, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in
force from one period to the next.  The
effect of persistency on profitability varies for different products.  For most of our life insurance and deferred
annuity products, actual persistency that is lower than our persistency
assumptions could have an adverse impact on profitability, especially in the
early years of a policy or contract, primarily because we would be required to
accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the
acquisition of the policy or contract.


 37 






For
our long term care insurance, actual persistency that is higher than our
persistency assumptions could have a negative impact on profitability.  If these policies remain in force longer than
we assumed, then we could be required to make greater benefit payments than we
had anticipated when we priced or partially reinsured these products.  Some of our long term care insurance policies
have experienced higher persistency and poorer loss experience than we had
assumed, which led us to increase premium rates on certain of these policies.

Because
our assumptions regarding persistency experience are inherently uncertain,
reserves for future policy benefits and claims may prove to be inadequate if
actual persistency experience is different from those assumptions.   Although some of our products permit us to
increase premiums during the life of the policy or contract, we cannot
guarantee that these increases would be sufficient to maintain
profitability.  Additionally, some of
these pricing changes require regulatory approval, which may not be
forthcoming.  Moreover, many of our
products do not permit us to increase premiums or limit those increases during
the life of the policy or contract, while premiums on certain other products
(primarily long term care insurance) may not be increased without prior
regulatory approval.  Significant
deviations in experience from pricing expectations regarding persistency could
have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products.

We may be required
to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs, which would
increase our expenses and reduce profitability.

Deferred
acquisition costs (“DAC”) represent the costs of acquiring new business,
principally direct sales commissions and other distribution and underwriting
costs that have been deferred on the sale of annuity, life and disability
income insurance and, to a lesser extent, marketing and promotional expenses
for personal auto and home insurance, and distribution expense for certain
mutual fund products.  For annuity and
universal life products, DAC are amortized based on projections of estimated
gross profits over amortization periods equal to the approximate life of the
business.  For other insurance products,
DAC are generally amortized as a percentage of premiums over amortization
periods equal to the premium-paying period. 
For certain mutual fund products, we generally amortize DAC over fixed
periods on a straight-line basis.

Our
projections underlying the amortization of DAC require the use of certain
assumptions, including interest margins, mortality rates, persistency rates,
maintenance expense levels and customer asset value growth rates for variable
products.  We periodically review and,
where appropriate, adjust our assumptions. 
When we change our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate the
amortization of DAC or to record a charge to increase benefit reserves.

As of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had $4.5 billion and
$4.2 billion, respectively, of DAC and we amortized $472 million and
$431 million, respectively, of DAC as a current-period expense for the
years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  For more information regarding DAC, see the
information contained in our 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders under the
captions “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Critical Accounting
Policies—Deferred Acquisition Costs” and “—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.”

Risk management
policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating risk exposure
in all market environments or against all types of risk, including employee and
financial advisor misconduct.

We
have devoted significant resources toward developing our risk management
policies and procedures and will continue to do so in the future.  Nonetheless, our policies and procedures to
identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective in mitigating our
risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk.  Many of our methods of managing risk and
exposures are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior or
statistics based on historical models. 
As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future exposures,
which could be significantly greater than what our models indicate.  Other risk management methods depend upon the
evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or
other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us, which
may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated.  Moreover, we are subject to the risks of misconduct by our
employees and financial advisors — such as fraud, non-compliance with policies,
recommending transactions that are not suitable, and improperly using or disclosing
confidential information — which is difficult to detect in advance and deter,
and could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.  Management of operational, legal and
regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to
record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these
policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk
exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk.  Insurance and other traditional risk-shifting
tools may be held by or available to us in order to manage certain exposures,
but they are subject to terms such as deductibles, coinsurance, limits and
policy exclusions, as well as risk of counterparty denial of coverage, default
or insolvency.


 38 






As a holding
company, we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us
to pay dividends and to meet our obligations.

We act
as a holding company for our insurance and other subsidiaries.  Dividends from our subsidiaries and permitted
payments to us under our intercompany arrangements with our subsidiaries are
our principal sources of cash to pay shareholder dividends and to meet our
other financial obligations.  These
obligations include our operating expenses and interest and principal on our
borrowings and also include amounts we must pay under the tax allocation
agreement and transition services agreement we entered into with American
Express.  If the cash we receive from our
subsidiaries pursuant to dividend payment and intercompany arrangements is
insufficient for us to fund any of these obligations, we may be required to
raise cash through the incurrence of additional debt, the issuance of
additional equity or the sale of assets. 
If any of this happens, it could adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations.

Insurance,
banking and securities laws and regulations regulate the ability of many of our
subsidiaries (such as our insurance, banking and brokerage subsidiaries and our
face-amount certificate company) to pay dividends or make other
distributions.  See Item 1 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K— “Our Solutions—Protection Segment—Risk-Based Capital”
and “Regulation” as well as the information contained in our 2006 Annual Report
to Shareholders under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis —
Liquidity and Capital Resources.”  In
addition to the various regulatory restrictions that constrain our subsidiaries’
ability to pay dividends to our company, the rating agencies impose various
capital requirements on our company and our insurance company subsidiaries in
order for us to maintain our ratings and the ratings of our insurance
subsidiaries, which also constrains our and their ability to pay dividends.

Changes in U.S.
federal income or estate tax law could make some of our products less
attractive to clients.

Many
of the products we issue or on which our businesses are based (including both
insurance products and non-insurance products) enjoy favorable treatment under
current U.S. federal income or estate tax law. 
Changes in U.S. federal income or estate tax law could thus make some of
our products less attractive to clients.

We are subject to tax
contingencies that could adversely affect our provision for income taxes.

We are
subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and
those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business
operations.  These tax laws are complex
and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant
governmental taxing authorities.  We must
make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently
complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and must also
make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in
the various tax jurisdictions.  Disputes
over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority
upon examination or audit.

Risks
Relating to Our Common Stock

The market price of
our shares may fluctuate.

The
market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many
factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:

·                  changes in expectations concerning
our future financial performance and the future performance of the financial
services industry in general, including financial estimates and recommendations
by securities analysts;

·                  differences between our actual
financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;

·                  strategic moves by us or our
competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;

·                  changes in the regulatory framework
of the financial services industry and regulatory action; and

·                  changes in general economic or market
conditions.

Stock
markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to
the operating performance of a particular company.  These broad market fluctuations may adversely
affect the trading price of our common stock.

Provisions in our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or
delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the market value of
our common stock.

Our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions
that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids
by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage


 39 






prospective
acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a
hostile takeover.  These provisions
include, among others:

·                  a board of directors that is divided
into three classes with staggered terms;

·                  elimination of the right of our
shareholders to act by written consent;

·                  rules regarding how shareholders
may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder
meetings;

·                  the right of our board of directors
to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and

·                  limitations on the right of
shareholders to remove directors.

Delaware law also
imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us
and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock.

We
believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise
unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our
board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to
assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make our company
immune from takeovers.  However, these
provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders
and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors
determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders.

Risks
Relating to Our Separation from American Express

We will only have
the right to use the “American Express” brand name and logo in a limited
capacity.

In
connection with the separation from American Express, we changed our corporate
name to “Ameriprise Financial, Inc.” and are operating under two new brand
names.  We and our subsidiaries may use
the “American Express” brand name and logo in a limited capacity in conjunction
with our brand names and logos until September 30, 2007 pursuant to our
marketing and branding agreement with American Express.  For more information regarding these arrangements,
see Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K— “Our Relationship with
American Express.”  When our right to use
the “American Express” brand name and logo expires, we will not be able to
maintain or enjoy the name recognition associated with that brand.

We have experienced
increased costs in connection with the separation from American Express and as
an independent company.

We are
in the process of developing certain independent facilities, systems,
infrastructure and personnel to replace services previously provided by
American Express.  We have also made
significant investments to develop our new brand and establish our ability to
operate without access to American Express’s operational and administrative
infrastructure.  These initiatives have
been costly to implement.  We have
incurred $654 million in total pretax non-recurring separation costs
through December 31, 2006 and we expect to incur an additional
$221 million in separation costs. 
Due to the scope and complexity of the underlying projects, the amount
of total costs could be materially higher and the timing of incurrence of these
costs is subject to change.

Although
we have established many of our own independent systems and operations, we
continue to pay American Express to perform certain important corporate
functions for our operations, including information technology support,
procurement and other services.  The
amounts we pay for this transitional support are arm’s length rates generally
based on American Express’s direct and indirect costs.  For more information regarding the transition
arrangements, see Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — “Our
Relationship with American Express.” 
Although we implemented many independent functions, if we are not able
to complete the establishment of these functions, or obtain them from third
parties, we may not be able to operate our business effectively or at
comparable costs, and our profitability may decline.

As a
stand-alone company, we do not have the same purchasing power we had through
American Express and, in some cases, we may not have as favorable terms or
prices as those obtained prior to the separation from American Express, which
could decrease our overall profitability.


 40 






As we build our
information technology infrastructure and transition our data to our own
systems, we could experience temporary business interruptions and incur
substantial additional costs.

We are
in the process of installing and implementing the information technology
infrastructure to support our business functions, including customer service
and distribution.  We may incur temporary
interruptions in business operations if we cannot transition effectively from
American Express’s existing technology infrastructure (which covers hardware,
applications, network, telephony, databases, backup and recovery solutions), as
well as the people and processes that support them.  We may not be successful in implementing our
new technology infrastructure and transitioning our data, and we may incur
higher costs for implementation than currently anticipated.  Our failure to avoid operational
interruptions as we implement the new infrastructure and transition our data,
or our failure to implement the new infrastructure and transition our data
successfully, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on
our profitability.  In addition,
technology service failures could have adverse regulatory consequences for our
business and make us vulnerable to our competitors.

We
continue to rely on American Express’s disaster recovery capabilities as
part of our business continuity processes. 
We will only have the right to use American Express’s disaster recovery
resources until September 30, 2007. 
We are developing and implementing our own disaster recovery
infrastructure and developing business continuity for our operations, which we
anticipate will involve significant costs. 
We may not be successful in developing stand-alone disaster recovery
capabilities and business continuity processes, and may incur higher costs for
implementation than currently anticipated. 
Our failure to avoid operational interruptions as we implement new
business continuity processes, or our failure to implement the new processes
successfully, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on
our profitability in the event of a significant business disruption.

We agreed to
certain restrictions to preserve the treatment of the Distribution as tax free
to American Express and its shareholders, which reduces our strategic and
operating flexibility.

In
connection with the Internal Revenue Service ruling and opinion confirming the
tax free status of the Distribution, we made certain representations and
undertakings.  In addition, current tax
law generally creates a presumption that the Distribution would be taxable to
American Express, but not to its shareholders, if we or our shareholders were
to engage in a transaction that would result in a 50% or greater change by vote
or by value in our stock ownership during the four-year period beginning on the
date that begins two years before the Distribution date, unless it is
established that the Distribution and the transaction are not part of a
plan or series of related transactions to effect such a change in
ownership.  In the case of such a 50% or
greater change in our stock ownership, tax imposed on American Express in
respect of the Distribution would be based on the fair market value of our
stock on the Distribution date over American Express’s tax basis in our stock.

Under
our tax allocation agreement with American Express, we are generally
prohibited, before October 1, 2007, except in certain circumstances, from
(i) consenting to certain acquisitions of significant amounts of our
stock; (ii) transferring significant amounts of our assets;
(iii) failing to maintain certain components of our business as an active
business; or (iv) engaging in certain other actions or transactions that
could jeopardize the tax free status of the Distribution.  In addition, we are generally prohibited from
consenting to certain acquisitions of significant amounts of our stock or
assets, or from participating in certain other corporate transactions, unless
the other parties to the transaction agree to be jointly and severally liable
with us in respect of our indemnification obligation to American Express under
the tax allocation agreement (described below in the succeeding risk factor).

We agreed to
indemnify American Express and its shareholders for taxes and related losses
resulting from certain actions that cause the Distribution to fail to qualify
as a tax free transaction.

Under
the tax allocation agreement, we agreed to indemnify American Express and its
shareholders for taxes and related losses they suffer as a result of the
Distribution failing to qualify as a tax free transaction, if the taxes and
related losses are attributable to (i) direct or indirect acquisitions of
our stock or assets (regardless of whether we consent to such acquisitions);
(ii) negotiations, understandings, agreements, or arrangements in respect
of such acquisitions; or (iii) our failure to comply with certain
representations and undertakings from us, including the restrictions described
in the preceding risk factor.  See Item 1
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K— “Our Relationship with American
Express.”  Our indemnity will cover both
corporate level taxes and related losses imposed on American Express in the
event of a 50% or greater change in our stock ownership described in the
preceding risk factor, as well as taxes and related losses imposed on both
American Express and its shareholders if, due to our representations or
undertakings being incorrect or violated, the Distribution is determined to be
taxable for other reasons.

We
currently estimate that the indemnification obligation to American Express for
taxes due in the event of a 50% or greater change in our stock ownership could
exceed $1.5 billion.  This estimate,
which does not take into account related


 41 






losses such as
interest, penalties, and other additions to tax, depends upon several factors
that are beyond our control.  As a
consequence, the indemnity to American Express could vary substantially from
the estimate.  Furthermore, the estimate
does not address the potential indemnification obligation to both American
Express and its shareholders in the event that, due to our representations or
undertakings being incorrect or violated, the Distribution is determined to be
taxable for other reasons.  In that
event, the total indemnification obligation would likely be much greater.

Our separation from
American Express could increase our U.S. federal income tax costs.

Due to
the separation from American Express, our life insurance subsidiaries will not
be able to file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with the other
members of our affiliated group for five tax years following the
Distribution.  As a consequence, during
this period, net operating and capital losses, credits, and other tax
attributes generated by one group will not be available to offset income earned
or taxes owed by the other group for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  As a result of these and other
inefficiencies, the aggregate amount of U.S. federal income tax that we pay may
increase and we may in addition not be able to fully realize certain of our
deferred tax assets.

The continued
ownership of American Express common stock and options by our executive
officers may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest.

Because
of their former positions with American Express, substantially all of our
executive officers, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our
Chief Financial Officer, own American Express common stock and options to
purchase American Express common stock. 
Although these holdings in the aggregate are insubstantial in relation
to American Express, the individual holdings of American Express stock and
options to purchase that stock that remain after the Distribution may be
significant for some of these persons compared to that person’s total
assets.  Even though our board of
directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent from both
American Express and our company and our executive officers who were formally
employees of American Express have ceased to be employees of American Express
following the Distribution, ownership of American Express common stock and
options to purchase American Express stock by our officers after the
Distribution may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest
when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have
different implications for American Express than they do for us.

Item 1B