Item 1A.
Risk Factors.

 

If any
of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these
events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our
common stock could decline. Based on the information currently known to us, we
believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk
factors affecting our company in each of these categories of risk. However, the
risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those described
below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we
currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.

 

Risks Relating to Our Business

 

Our
financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by
market fluctuations and by economic and other factors.

 

Our
financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected
by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors. Many such factors of
a global or localized nature include: political, economic and market
conditions; the

 

31
















 

availability and cost of
capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and
interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes
and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; investor sentiment
and confidence in the financial markets; terrorism events and armed conflicts;
and natural disasters such as weather catastrophes and widespread health
emergencies. Furthermore, changes in consumer economic variables, such as the
number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, and
the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may substantially
affect consumer loan levels and credit quality, which, in turn, could impact
the results of our banking business. These factors also may have an impact
on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.

 

Our
insurance products and certain of our investment products are sensitive to
interest rate fluctuations, and our future costs associated with such
variations may differ from our historical costs. In addition, interest
rate fluctuations could result in fluctuations in the valuation of certain minimum
guaranteed benefits contained in some of our variable annuity products.

 

During
periods of increasing market interest rates, we must offer higher crediting
rates on interest-sensitive products, such as fixed universal life insurance,
fixed annuities and face-amount certificates, and we must increase crediting
rates on in-force products to keep these products competitive. Because returns
on invested assets may not increase as quickly as current interest rates,
we may have to accept a lower spread and thus lower profitability or face
a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets.
In addition, increases in market interest rates may cause increased policy
surrenders, withdrawals from life insurance policies and annuity contracts and
requests for policy loans, as policyholders and contractholders seek to shift
assets to products with perceived higher returns. This process may lead to
an earlier than expected flow of cash out of our business. Also, increases in
market interest rates may result in extension of certain cash flows from
structured mortgage assets. These policyholder withdrawals and surrenders may require
investment assets to be sold at a time when the prices of those assets are
lower because of the increase in market interest rates, which may result
in realized investment losses. Increases in crediting rates, as well as
surrenders and withdrawals, could have an adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations. An increase in policy surrenders and withdrawals
also may require us to accelerate amortization of deferred acquisition
costs or other intangibles or cause an impairment of goodwill, which would
increase our expenses and reduce our net earnings.

 

During
periods of falling interest rates, our “spread,” or the difference between the
returns we earn on the investments that support our obligations under these
products and the amounts that we must pay policyholders and contractholders, may be
reduced. Because we may adjust the interest rates we credit on most of
these products downward only at limited, pre-established intervals, and because
some of them have guaranteed minimum crediting rates, our spreads could
decrease and potentially become negative.

 

Interest
rate fluctuations also could have an adverse effect on the results of our
investment portfolio. During periods of declining market interest rates, the
interest we receive on variable interest rate investments decreases. In
addition, during those periods, we are forced to reinvest the cash we receive
as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower-yielding
high-grade instruments or in lower-credit instruments to maintain comparable
returns. Issuers of certain callable fixed income securities also may decide
to prepay their obligations in order to borrow at lower market rates, which
exacerbates the risk that we may have to invest the cash proceeds of these
securities in lower-yielding or lower-credit instruments.

 

Significant
downturns and volatility in equity markets could have an adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. Market downturns and volatility may cause
potential new purchasers of our products to refrain from purchasing products,
such as mutual funds, variable annuities and variable universal life insurance,
that have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets. Downturns may also
cause current shareholders in our mutual funds and contractholders in our
annuity and protection products to withdraw cash values from those products.

 

Additionally,
downturns and volatility in equity markets can have an adverse effect on the
revenues and returns from our asset management services, wrap accounts, and
variable annuity contracts. Because the profitability of these products and
services depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under
management, declines in the equity markets will reduce our revenues because the
value of the investment assets we manage will be reduced. In addition, some of
our variable annuity products contain guaranteed minimum death benefits and
guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal and accumulation benefits. A significant
equity market decline could result in guaranteed minimum benefits being higher
than what current account values would support, thus producing a loss as we pay
the benefits, having an adverse effect on our financial condition and results
of operations. We have hedged a portion of the guarantees for the variable
annuity contracts in order to somewhat mitigate the financial loss of an equity
markets decline.

 

We
believe that investment performance is an important factor in the growth of our
Asset Accumulation and Income business. Poor investment performance could
impair our revenues and earnings, as well as our prospects for growth. A
significant portion of our revenue is derived from investment management
agreements with our own RiverSource family of 

 

32
















 

mutual funds that are
terminable on 60 days’ notice. In addition, although some contracts
governing investment management services are subject to termination for failure
to meet performance benchmarks, institutional and individual clients can
generally terminate their relationships with us or our financial advisors at
will or on relatively short notice. Our clients can also reduce the aggregate
amount of managed assets or shift their funds to other types of accounts with
different rate structures, for any number of reasons, including investment
performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, changes in investment
preferences, changes in our (or our financial advisors’) reputation in the
marketplace, changes in client management or ownership, loss of key investment
management personnel and financial market performance. A reduction in managed
assets, and the associated decrease in revenues and earnings, could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

 

In
addition, during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the
level of individual investor participation in the global markets may also
decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our retail businesses.
Moreover, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of
investment capital into or from assets under management and the way customers
allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment
alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Accumulation and Income
business.

 

Defaults in our fixed income securities portfolio or
consumer credit products would adversely affect our earnings.

 

Issuers
of the fixed income securities that we own may default on principal and
interest payments. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 7% of our
investment portfolio had ratings below investment-grade. Moreover, economic
downturns and corporate malfeasance can increase the number of companies,
including those with investment-grade ratings, that default on their debt
obligations, as occurred in 2001 and 2002. As of December 31, 2005, we had
fixed income securities in or near default (where the issuer had missed payment
of principal or interest or entered bankruptcy) with a fair value of
$58.1 million. Default-related declines in the value of our fixed income
securities portfolio or consumer credit products could cause our net earnings
to decline and could also cause us to contribute capital to some of our
regulated subsidiaries, which may require us to obtain funding during
periods of unfavorable market conditions.

 

If the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements or to
the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default, we may be
exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations.

 

We use
reinsurance to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. See Item 1 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K—”Protection—Reinsurance.” Reinsurance does not
relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the
reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit and performance risk
with respect to our reinsurers. A reinsurer’s insolvency or its inability or
unwillingness to make payments under the terms of our reinsurance agreement
could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations that could be material.

 

In
addition, we use a variety of derivative instruments to hedge several business
risks. If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under the
derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective.
That failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations that could be material.

 

Some of our investments are relatively illiquid.

 

We
invest a portion of our owned assets in privately placed fixed income
securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, limited partnership interests, real
estate and restricted investments held by securitization trusts, among others,
all of which are relatively illiquid. These asset classes represented
approximately 12.4% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of December 31,
2005. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of
our normal cash requirements, we may have difficulty selling these
investments in a timely manner, or be forced to sell them for an amount less
than we would otherwise have been able to realize, or both, which could have an
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

 

Intense competition and the economics of changes in our
product revenue mix and distribution channels could negatively affect our
ability to maintain or increase our market share and profitability.

 

Our
businesses operate in intensely competitive industry segments. We compete based
on a number of factors including name recognition, service, the quality of
investment advice, investment performance, product features, price, perceived
financial strength, and claims-paying and credit ratings. Our competitors
include broker-dealers, banks, asset managers, insurers and other financial
institutions. Many of our businesses face competitors that have greater market
share, offer a broader range of products, have greater financial resources, or
have higher claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. In addition, over time
certain sectors of the financial services industry have become considerably
more concentrated, as financial institutions

 

33
















 

involved in a broad range
of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. This
convergence could result in our competitors gaining greater resources and we may experience
pressures on our pricing and market share as a result of these factors and as
some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices.

 

Over
recent years, sales of our own mutual funds by our financial advisor network,
including sales within our wrap account products (for which we receive a fee
based on assets in the account), have declined as a percentage of our total
mutual funds sales. We expect this trend to continue for the near-term. This is
principally a result of the addition of mutual funds of other companies to our
product offerings in response to competition and clients’ desire for expanded
product choice. In addition, other critical factors such as shareholder
demographics and increasing sales of alternative investment products have
caused our RiverSource Funds to experience significant net outflows overall
since 2000.

 

In
recent years, a substantial portion of the mutual funds sold by our financial
advisors was comprised of the products of other companies. Generally, our
profits from sales of other companies’ mutual funds are lower than those from
our own mutual funds. Part of our growth strategy is to expand alternative
distribution channels for our own products. If we are unable to efficiently
manage the economics of selling a growing proportion of mutual funds of other
companies, to maintain an acceptable level of sales of our own products through
our financial advisor network, to effectively develop third party distribution
channels for our own mutual funds, or to expand the third party distribution
channels for our annuity products, our results of operations could be adversely
affected.

 

Currently,
our branded advisor network distributes annuity and protection products issued
almost exclusively by our IDS Life companies. If our branded advisor
distribution network is opened to annuity and protection products of other
companies, there can be no assurance that there would not be a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

 

We face intense competition in attracting and retaining key
talent.

 

We are
dependent on our network of branded advisors for a significant portion of the
sales of our mutual funds, annuities, face-amount certificates and insurance
protection products. In addition, our continued success depends to a
substantial degree on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to
conduct our fund management and investment advisory businesses, as well as
senior management. The market for financial advisors, registered
representatives, management talent, qualified fund managers, and investment
analysts is extremely competitive and has grown more so in recent periods due
to industry growth. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified
individuals or our recruiting and retention costs increase significantly, our
financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely
affected.

 

Our businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in
regulation may reduce our profitability, limit our growth, or impact our
ability to pay dividends or achieve targeted return-on-equity levels.

 

We
operate in highly regulated industries, and are required to obtain and maintain
licenses for many of the businesses we operate in addition to being subject to
regulatory oversight. Securities regulators have significantly increased the
level of regulation in recent years and have several outstanding proposals for
additional regulation. In addition, we are subject to heightened regulatory
requirements relating to privacy and the protection of customer data. These
regulations, as well as possible legislative or regulatory changes, may constrain
our ability to market our products and services to our potential customers and
could negatively affect our profitability and make it more difficult for us to
pursue our growth strategy.

 

Our
insurance companies are subject to state regulation, so must comply with
statutory reserve and capital requirements. State regulators are continually
reviewing and updating these requirements. As of December 31, 2005, our
life insurance companies were subject to new capital requirements for variable
annuity contracts with guaranteed death or living benefits. These new
requirements had minimal impact on our balance sheet in 2005, but that may not
continue to be true in the event equity market values fall in the future. Moreover,
there is active discussion at the NAIC of moving to a principles-based
reserving system. This could change statutory reserve requirements
significantly, and it is not possible to estimate the impact at this time.

 

Compliance
with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive.
Changes in these laws and regulations may increase materially our direct
and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business. Our financial
advisors may decide that the direct cost of compliance and the indirect
cost of time spent on compliance matters outweigh the benefits of a career as a
financial advisor, which could lead to financial advisor attrition. The costs
of the compliance requirements we face, and the constraints they impose on our
operations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations.

 

34
















 

In
addition, we may be required to reduce our fee levels, or restructure the
fees we charge, as a result of regulatory initiatives or proceedings that are
either industry-wide or specifically targeted at our company. Reductions or
other changes in the fees that we charge for our products and services could
reduce our revenues and earnings. Moreover, in the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, we received approximately $1.2 billion and
$1.1 billion, respectively, in distribution fees. A significant portion of
these revenues was paid to us by our own RiverSource family of mutual funds in
accordance with plans and agreements of distribution adopted under Rule 12b-1
promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or Rule 12b-1.
We believe that these fees are a critical element in the distribution of our
own mutual funds. There have recently been suggestions from regulatory agencies
and other industry participants that Rule 12b-1 fees in the mutual fund
industry should be reconsidered and potentially reduced or eliminated. We
believe that distribution and servicing-related fees paid to financial advisors
will remain a key element in the mutual fund industry. However, an
industry-wide reduction or restructuring of Rule 12b-1 fees could have a
material adverse effect on our ability to distribute our own mutual funds and
the fees we receive for distributing other companies’ mutual funds, which
could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our revenues and earnings.

 

For a
further discussion of the regulatory framework in which we operate, see Item 1
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K— “Regulation.”

 

Conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately
deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses.

 

 Our reputation is one of
our most important assets. As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and
our client base, we increasingly have to address potential conflicts of
interest, including those relating to our proprietary activities. For example,
conflicts may arise between our position as a provider of financial
planning products and a manufacturer and/or distributor or broker of asset
accumulation, income or insurance protection products that one of our financial
advisors may recommend to a financial planning client. We have procedures
and controls that are designed to address conflicts of interest. However,
appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and
our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal
appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, the SEC and other
federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential
conflicts of interest. It is possible that potential or perceived conflicts
could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. It is possible that the
regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, conflicts of
interest will make our clients less willing to enter into transactions in which
such a conflict may occur, and will adversely affect our businesses.

 

Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses
and could result in financial losses or harm our businesses.

 

We
are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in
the ordinary course of our operations, both domestically and internationally.
Various regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our
products and business practices and those of our employees and independent
financial advisors and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us
if, in their view, our practices, or those of our employees or independent
financial advisors, are improper. Pending legal and regulatory actions include
proceedings relating to aspects of our businesses and operations that are
specific to us and proceedings that are typical of the industries and
businesses in which we operate. Some of these proceedings have been brought on
behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. In certain of these matters,
the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including
punitive or exemplary damages. See Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K—
“Legal Proceedings.” Substantial legal liability in these or future legal or
regulatory actions could have a material adverse financial effect or cause
significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business
prospects.

 

A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial
strength or credit ratings could adversely affect our financial condition and
results of operations.

 

Financial
strength ratings, which various ratings organizations publish as a measure of
an insurance company’s ability to meet contractholder and policyholder
obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products,
the ability to market our products and our competitive position. Any downgrade
in our financial strength ratings, or the announced potential for a downgrade,
could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results
of operations in many ways, including:

 

•                  reducing new
sales of insurance products, annuities and investment products;

 

•                  adversely
affecting our relationships with our financial advisors and third party
distributors of our products;

 

•                  materially
increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by
contractholders and policyholders;

 

35
















 

•                  requiring us to
reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and

 

•                  adversely
affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance or obtain reasonable pricing on
reinsurance.

 

A
downgrade in our credit ratings could also adversely impact our future cost and
speed of borrowing and have an adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and liquidity.

 

If our reserves for future policy benefits and claims are
inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserve liabilities, which
could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

 

We
establish reserves as estimates of our liabilities to provide for future
obligations under our insurance policies, annuities and investment certificate
contracts. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but
rather are estimates of contract benefits and related expenses we expect to
incur over time. The assumptions and estimates we make in establishing reserves
require certain judgments about future experience and, therefore, are
inherently uncertain. We monitor our reserve levels continually. If we were to conclude
that our reserves are insufficient to cover actual or expected contract
benefits, we would be required to increase our reserves and potentially incur
income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination,
which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
For more information on how we set our reserves, see Note 2 to our
consolidated financial statements included in our 2005 Annual Report to
Shareholders.

 

Morbidity rates or mortality rates that differ significantly
from our pricing expectations could negatively affect profitability.

 

We set
prices for our life insurance, disability income insurance and some annuity
products based upon expected claim payment patterns, derived from assumptions
we make about the morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness, and mortality
rates, or likelihood of death, of our policyholders and contractholders. The
long-term profitability of these products depends upon how our actual
experience compares with our pricing assumptions. For example, if morbidity
rates are higher, or mortality rates are lower, than our pricing assumptions,
we could be required to make greater payments under disability income insurance
policies and immediate annuity contracts than we had projected. The same holds
true for long-term care policies we previously underwrote to the extent they
are not fully reinsured. If mortality rates are higher than our pricing
assumptions, we could be required to make greater payments under our life
insurance policies and annuity contracts with guaranteed minimum death benefits
than we had projected.

 

The
risk that our claims experience may differ significantly from our pricing
assumptions is particularly significant for our long-term care insurance
products notwithstanding our ability to implement future price increases. As
with life insurance, long-term care insurance policies provide for
long-duration coverage and, therefore, our actual claims experience will emerge
over many years. However, as a relatively new product in the market, long-term
care insurance does not have the extensive claims experience history of life
insurance, and, as a result, our ability to forecast future claim rates for
long-term care insurance is more limited than for life insurance. We have
sought to moderate these uncertainties to some extent by partially reinsuring long-term
policies we previously underwrote and by limiting our present long-term care
insurance offerings to policies underwritten fully by an unaffiliated third
party.

 

We may face losses if there are significant deviations
from our assumptions regarding the future persistency of our insurance policies
and annuity contracts.

 

The
prices and expected future profitability of our life insurance and deferred
annuity products are based in part upon assumptions related to
persistency, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in
force from one period to the next. The effect of persistency on profitability
varies for different products. For most of our life insurance and deferred
annuity products, actual persistency that is lower than our persistency
assumptions could have an adverse impact on profitability, especially in the
early years of a policy or contract, primarily because we would be required to
accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the
acquisition of the policy or contract.

 

For
our long-term care insurance, actual persistency that is higher than our
persistency assumptions could have a negative impact on profitability. If these
policies remain in force longer than we assumed, then we could be required to
make greater benefit payments than we had anticipated when we priced or
partially reinsured these products. Some of our long-term care insurance
policies have experienced higher persistency than we had assumed, which led us
to increase premium rates on certain of these policies.

 

Because
our assumptions regarding persistency experience are inherently uncertain,
reserves for future policy benefits and claims may prove to be inadequate
if actual persistency experience is different from those assumptions. Although
some of

 

36
















 

our products permit us to
increase premiums during the life of the policy or contract, we cannot
guarantee that these increases would be sufficient to maintain profitability.
Additionally, some of these pricing changes require regulatory approval, which may not
be forthcoming. Moreover, many of our products do not permit us to increase
premiums or limit those increases during the life of the policy or contract.
Significant deviations in experience from pricing expectations regarding
persistency could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products.

 

We may be required to accelerate the amortization of
deferred acquisition costs, which would increase our expenses and reduce profitability.

 

Deferred
acquisition costs (“DAC”) represent the costs of acquiring new business,
principally direct sales commissions and other distribution and underwriting
costs that have been deferred on the sale of annuity, life and disability
income insurance and, to a lesser extent, marketing and promotional expenses
for personal auto and home insurance, and distribution expense for certain
mutual fund products. For annuity and insurance products, we amortize DAC over
periods approximating the lives of the related policy or contract, generally as
a percentage of premiums or estimated gross profits associated with that policy
or contract. For certain mutual fund products, we generally amortize DAC over
fixed periods on a straight-line basis.

 

Our
projections underlying the amortization of DAC require the use of certain
assumptions, including interest margins, mortality rates, persistency rates,
maintenance expense levels and customer asset value growth rates for variable
products. We periodically review and, where appropriate, adjust our
assumptions. When we change our assumptions, we may be required to
accelerate the amortization of DAC or to record a charge to increase benefit
reserves.

 

As of December 31,
2005 and December 31, 2004, we had $4.2 billion and $4.0 billion of DAC,
respectively, and we amortized $431 million and $437 million, respectively, of
DAC as a current-period expense for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. For more information regarding DAC, see the information
contained in our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders under the captions “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis—Critical Accounting Policies—Deferred Acquisition Costs”
and “—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.”

 

Risk management policies and procedures may not be fully
effective in mitigating risk exposure in all market environments or against all
types of risk, including employee and financial advisor misconduct.

 

We
have devoted significant resources toward developing our risk management
policies and procedures and will continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless,
our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not
be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments
or against all types of risk. Many of our methods of managing risk and
exposures are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior or
statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not
accurately predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than
what our models indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the
evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or
other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us, which may not
always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Moreover, we
are subject to the risks of misconduct by our employees and financial advisors – such as fraud,
non-compliance with policies, recommending transactions that are not suitable,
and improperly using or disclosing confidential information – which is
difficult to detect in advance and deter, and could harm our business, results
of operations or financial condition. Management of operational, legal
and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to
record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these
policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk
exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk.

 

As a holding company, we depend on the ability of our
subsidiaries to transfer funds to us to pay dividends and to meet our
obligations.

 

We act
as a holding company for our insurance and other subsidiaries. Dividends from
our subsidiaries and permitted payments to us under our intercompany
arrangements with our subsidiaries are our principal sources of cash to pay
shareholder dividends and to meet our other financial obligations. These
obligations include our operating expenses and interest and principal on our
borrowings and also include amounts we must pay under the tax allocation
agreement and transition services agreement we entered into with American
Express Company. If the cash we receive from our subsidiaries pursuant to
dividend payment and intercompany arrangements is insufficient for us to fund
any of these obligations, we may be required to raise cash through the
incurrence of additional debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of
assets. If any of this happens, it could adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations.

 

Insurance
and securities laws and regulations regulate the ability of many of our
subsidiaries (such as our insurance and brokerage subsidiaries and our
face-amount certificate company) to pay dividends or make other distributions.
See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K—”Protection – Risk-Based
Capital” and “Regulation” as well as the information contained in our

 

37
















 

2005 Annual Report to
Shareholders under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis –
Liquidity and Capital Resources.” When we form our new banking subsidiary,
its ability to pay dividends will also be regulated. In addition to the various
regulatory restrictions that constrain our subsidiaries’ ability to pay
dividends to our company, the rating agencies impose various capital
requirements on our company and our insurance company subsidiaries in order for
us to maintain our ratings and the ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, which
also constrains our and their ability to pay dividends.

 

Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could make some of
our products less attractive to clients.

 

Many
of the products we issue or on which our businesses are based (including both
insurance products and non-insurance products) enjoy favorable treatment under
current U.S. federal income tax law. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law
could thus make some of our products less attractive to clients.

 

We are subject to tax contingencies that could adversely affect reserves.

 

We are
subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and
those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business
operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations
by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. We must make
judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex
tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and must also make
estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the
various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be
settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit.

 

Risks Relating to Our Common Stock

 

The market price of our shares may fluctuate.

 

The
market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many
factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:

 

•                  changes in
expectations concerning our future financial performance and the future
performance of the financial services industry in general, including financial
estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;

 

•                  differences
between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by
investors and analysts;

 

•                  strategic moves
by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;

 

•                  changes in the
regulatory framework of the financial services industry and regulatory action;
and

 

•                  changes in
general economic or market conditions.

 

Stock
markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to
the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market
fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.

 

Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws
and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company,
which could decrease the market value of our common stock.

 

Our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions
that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover
bids by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage
prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to
attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:

 

•                  a board of
directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms;

 

•                  elimination of
the right of our shareholders to act by written consent;

 

•                  rules regarding
how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election
at shareholder meetings;

 

•                  the right of our
board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and

 

•                  limitations on
the right of shareholders to remove directors.

 

38
















 

Delaware law also imposes
some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any
holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock.

 

We
believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise
unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our
board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to
assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make our company
immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be
considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an
acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests
of our company and our shareholders.

 

Risks Relating to Our Separation from
American Express Company

 

We will only have the right to use the “American Express”
brand name and logo in a limited capacity for up to two years. If our new brand
names “Ameriprise” and “RiverSource” do not develop a strong reputation, our
revenue and profitability could decline.

 

In
connection with the separation from American Express Company, we changed our
corporate name to “Ameriprise Financial, Inc.” and are operating under two
new brand names, although we and our subsidiaries may use the “American
Express” brand name and logo in a limited capacity in conjunction with our
brand names and logos until September 30, 2007 pursuant to our marketing
and branding agreement with American Express Company. For more information
regarding these arrangements, see Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K—
“Our Relationship with American Express Company.”  When our right to use the “American Express”
brand name and logo expires, we may not be able to maintain or enjoy
comparable name recognition or status under our new brands. If we are unable to
successfully manage the transition of our business to our new brands, the
benefit we previously offered our branded advisors, customers and employees of
having a recognized brand will be reduced, which could have an adverse effect
on our revenue and profitability.

 

Client acquisition may be adversely affected by our
separation from American Express Company.

 

Although
we generally operated independently of American Express Company’s other
operations with respect to client services, we did rely on the “American
Express” brand and cardmember relationships in acquiring clients as part of
our retail growth strategy. As part of the marketing and branding
arrangement with American Express Company, we will continue to market our
products in a manner similar to the methods we used prior to the separation
from American Express Company. However, overall response rates, marginal costs
and profitability from these efforts may be negatively affected as a
result of the change in our brand name. For additional information regarding
this arrangement, see Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K— “Our
Relationship with American Express Company.” We cannot assure you that the
clients we gained as a result of being affiliated with American Express Company
will not move some or all of their existing business from us to another company
or that we will be able to implement our mass affluent client acquisition
strategy as cost-effectively as when our cross-selling relationship with
American Express Company was operated on an affiliated basis. Loss of a
significant portion of these clients could negatively impact our results of
operations and failure to acquire these clients could also have a negative
impact on our business.

 

Our historical consolidated financial information is not
necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone
company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.

 

Our
historical consolidated financial information does not reflect the financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a
stand-alone company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in
the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors:

 

•                  Our historical
consolidated financial information reflects certain businesses that are not
included in our company following the separation from American Express Company;

 

•                  Our historical
consolidated financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from
American Express Company. Those allocations may be lower than the
comparable expenses we would have actually incurred as a stand-alone company;

 

•                  Our working
capital requirements historically have been satisfied as part of American
Express Company’s corporate-wide cash management policies. Our cost of debt and
our capitalization is different from that reflected in our historical
consolidated financial statements;

 

39
















 

•                  Significant
changes have occurred and may continue to occur in our cost structure, management,
financing and business operations as a result of our separation from American
Express Company, including the costs for us to establish our new brands and
operating infrastructure; and

 

•                  Our separation
from American Express Company and the creation of our new brands may have
an adverse effect on our customer and other business relationships.

 

We
have made adjustments based upon available information and assumptions that we
believe are reasonable to reflect these factors. However, our assumptions may prove
not to be accurate, and accordingly, our financial information should not be
assumed to be indicative of what our financial condition or results of
operations actually would have been as a stand-alone company nor to be a
reliable indicator of what our financial condition or results of operations
actually may be in the future.

 

For a
description of the components of our historical consolidated financial
information and adjustments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Significant
Factors Affecting our Results of Operations and Financial Condition —Separation
from American Express” and our historical consolidated financial statements
contained in our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders.

 

We have experienced increased costs in connection with the
separation from American Express Company and as an independent company.

 

We are
in the process of developing certain independent facilities, systems,
infrastructure and personnel to replace services we had access to from American
Express Company. We have also made significant investments to develop our new
brand and establish our ability to operate without access to American Express
Company’s operational and administrative infrastructure. These initiatives have
been costly to implement. We have incurred approximately $293 million in total
pretax non-recurring separation costs through December 31, 2005 and we
expect to incur an additional $582 million in separation costs. Due to the
scope and complexity of the underlying projects, the amount of total costs
could be materially higher and the timing of incurrence of these costs is
subject to change.

 

We pay
American Express Company to continue performing many important corporate
functions for our operations, including information technology support,
treasury, accounting, financial reporting, tax administration, human resource
administration, marketing, procurement and other services. The amounts we pay
for this transitional support are arm’s length rates generally based on
American Express Company’s direct and indirect costs. For more information
regarding the transition arrangements, see Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
—”Our Relationship with American Express Company.” Although we implemented many
independent functions, if we are not able to complete the establishment of
these functions, or obtain them from third parties, we may not be able to
operate our business effectively or at comparable costs, and our profitability may decline.

 

As a
stand-alone company, we do not have the same purchasing power we had through
American Express Company and, in some cases, we may not have as favorable
terms or prices as those obtained prior to the separation from American Express
Company, which could decrease our overall profitability.

 

We may not have sufficient capital generation ability
to meet our operating and regulatory capital requirements, and current and
future funding may adversely affect holders of our common stock through
the issuance of more senior securities or through dilution.

 

As a
stand-alone company we are required to maintain higher capital ratios to retain
our credit ratings. In addition, we need to cover volatility associated with
variations in our operating, risk-based and regulatory capital requirements,
including separation costs and contingent exposures, for example, in connection
with our ongoing legal and regulatory matters. See Item 1 of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K— “Regulation” for more information regarding capital
requirements and see Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K— “Legal
Proceedings” for more information regarding pending regulatory and legal
proceedings. Although American Express Company made a substantial capital
contribution to our company to cover, among other things, certain separation
costs and the costs to establish our new brands, we cannot be certain that this
capital contribution will be sufficient to cover all of our additional costs.
If it is not sufficient, our financial condition could be adversely affected
and our company credit ratings and/or the financial strength ratings of our
insurance subsidiaries may be downgraded.

 

In
connection with the separation from American Express Company we incurred
external debt, and we may from time to time need to incur additional debt
or issue equity, in order to fund working capital, capital expenditures and
product development requirements or to make acquisitions and other investments.
Any debt incurred or preferred stock issued has or will have liquidation
rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common
stock. If we raise funds through

 

40
















 

the issuance of equity,
the issuance will dilute the ownership interest of common shareholders. We
cannot assure you that debt or equity financing will be available to us on
acceptable terms, if at all. If we are not able to obtain sufficient financing,
we may be unable to maintain or grow our business. It may also be
more expensive for us to raise funds through the issuance of additional debt
than the cost of raising funds or issuing debt for our business while we were part of
American Express Company.

 

As we build our information technology infrastructure and
transition our data to our own systems, we could experience temporary business
interruptions and incur substantial additional costs.

 

We are
in the process of installing and implementing information technology
infrastructure to support our business functions, including accounting and
reporting, customer service and distribution. We anticipate this will involve
significant costs. We may incur temporary interruptions in business
operations if we cannot transition effectively from American Express Company’s
existing technology infrastructure (which covers hardware, applications,
network, telephony, databases, backup and recovery solutions), as well as the
people and processes that support them. We may not be successful in
implementing our new technology infrastructure and transitioning our data, and
we may incur substantially higher costs for implementation than currently
anticipated. Our failure to avoid operational interruptions as we implement the
new infrastructure and transition our data, or our failure to implement the new
infrastructure and transition our data successfully, could disrupt our business
and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition,
technology service failures could have adverse regulatory consequences for our
business and make us vulnerable to our competitors.

 

We
continue to rely on American Express Company’s disaster recovery capabilities
as part of our business continuity processes. We will only have the right
to use American Express Company’s disaster recovery resources for up to two
years after the Distribution. We are developing and implementing our own
disaster recovery infrastructure and developing business continuity for our
operations, which we anticipate will involve significant costs. We may not
be successful in developing stand-alone disaster recovery capabilities and
business continuity processes, and may incur substantially higher costs
for implementation than currently anticipated. Our failure to avoid operational
interruptions as we implement new business continuity processes, or our failure
to implement the new processes successfully, could disrupt our business and
have a material adverse effect on our profitability in the event of a
significant business disruption.

 

We agreed to certain restrictions to preserve the treatment
of the Distribution as tax free to American Express Company and its
shareholders, which reduces our strategic and operating flexibility.

 

In
connection with the Internal Revenue Service ruling and opinion confirming the
tax free status of the Distribution, we made certain representations and
undertakings. In addition, current tax law generally creates a presumption that
the Distribution would be taxable to American Express Company, but not to its
shareholders, if we or our shareholders were to engage in a transaction that
would result in a 50% or greater change by vote or by value in our stock
ownership during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two
years before the Distribution date, unless it is established that the
Distribution and the transaction are not part of a plan or series of
related transactions to effect such a change in ownership. In the case of such
a 50% or greater change in our stock ownership, tax imposed on American Express
Company in respect of the Distribution would be based on the fair market value
of our stock on the Distribution date over American Express Company’s tax basis
in our stock.

 

Under
our tax allocation agreement with American Express Company, we are generally
prohibited, for a period of two years following the Distribution, except in
certain circumstances, from (i) consenting to certain acquisitions of
significant amounts of our stock; (ii) transferring significant amounts of
our assets; (iii) failing to maintain certain components of our business
as an active business; or (iv) engaging in certain other actions or
transactions that could jeopardize the tax free status of the Distribution. In
addition, we are generally prohibited from consenting to certain acquisitions
of significant amounts of our stock or assets, or from participating in certain
other corporate transactions, unless the other parties to the transaction agree
to be jointly and severally liable with us in respect of our indemnification
obligation to American Express Company under the tax allocation agreement
(described below).

 

We agreed to indemnify American Express Company and its
shareholders for taxes and related losses resulting from certain actions that
cause the Distribution to fail to qualify as a tax free transaction.

 

Under
the tax allocation agreement, we agreed to indemnify American Express Company
and its shareholders for taxes and related losses they suffer as a result of
the Distribution failing to qualify as a tax free transaction, if the taxes and
related losses are attributable to (i) direct or indirect acquisitions of
our stock or assets (regardless of whether we consent to such acquisitions); (ii) negotiations,
understandings, agreements, or arrangements in respect of such acquisitions; or
(iii) our failure to comply with certain representations and undertakings
from us, including the restrictions described in the preceding risk factor. See
Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K— “Our Relationship with American
Express Company.” Our indemnity will

 

41
















 

cover both corporate
level taxes and related losses imposed on American Express Company in the event
of a 50% or greater change in our stock ownership described in the preceding
risk factor, as well taxes and related losses imposed on both American Express
Company and its shareholders if, due to our representations or undertakings
being incorrect or violated, the Distribution is determined to be taxable for
other reasons.

 

We
currently estimate that the indemnification obligation to American Express
Company for taxes due in the event of a 50% or greater change in our stock
ownership could exceed $1.5 billion. This estimate, which does not take
into account related losses such as interest, penalties, and other additions to
tax, depends upon several factors that are beyond our control. As a
consequence, the indemnity to American Express Company could vary substantially
from the estimate. Furthermore, the estimate does not address the potential
indemnification obligation to both American Express Company and its
shareholders in the event that, due to our representations or undertakings
being incorrect or violated, the Distribution is determined to be taxable for
other reasons. In that event, the total indemnification obligation would likely
be much greater.

 

Our separation from American Express Company could increase
our U.S. federal income tax costs.

 

Due to
the separation from American Express Company, our life insurance subsidiaries
will not be able to file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with the
other members of our affiliated group for five tax years following the
Distribution. As a consequence, during this period, net operating and capital
losses, credits, and other tax attributes generated by one group will not be
available to offset income earned or taxes owed by the other group for U.S.
federal income tax purposes. Any benefits relating to taxes arising from being part of
the larger American Express group may also not be available. As a result
of these and other inefficiencies, the aggregate amount of U.S. federal income
tax that we pay may increase and we may in addition not be able to
fully realize certain of our deferred tax assets.

 

The continued ownership of American Express Company common
stock and options by our executive officers may create, or may create
the appearance of, conflicts of interest.

 

Because
of their former positions with American Express Company, substantially all of
our executive officers, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and
our Chief Financial Officer, own American Express Company common stock and
options to purchase American Express Company common stock. Although these
holdings in the aggregate are insubstantial in relation to American Express
Company, the individual holdings of American Express Company stock and options
to purchase that stock that remain after the Distribution may be
significant for some of these persons compared to that person’s total assets.
Even though our board of directors consists of a majority of directors who are
independent from both American Express Company and our company and our executive
officers who were formally employees of American Express Company have ceased to
be employees of American Express Company following the Distribution, ownership
of American Express Company common stock and options to purchase American
Express Company stock by our officers after the Distribution may create,
or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these
directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different
implications for American Express Company than they do for us.

 

Item 1B