 of this Annual Report under the caption “Risk Factors—A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of tenants, and we are sensitive to changes in the creditworthiness and financial strength of our tenants.” In addition, we are subject to risks related to our international operations, as set forth under the caption “Risk Factors—Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position, including risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.”Managed Networks, Property Interests and Shared Generators. In addition to our communications sites, we also own and operate several types of managed network solutions, provide communications site management services to third parties, manage and lease property interests under carrier or other third-party communications sites and provide back-up power sources to tenants at our sites. •Managed Networks. We own and operate DAS networks in the United States and certain international markets. We obtain rights from property owners to install and operate in-building DAS networks, and we grant rights to wireless service providers to attach their equipment to our installations. We also offer outdoor DAS networks as a complementary shared infrastructure solution for our tenants in the United States and in certain international markets. Typically, we design, build and operate our outdoor DAS networks in areas in which zoning restrictions or other barriers may prevent or delay deployment of more traditional wireless communications sites. We also hold lease rights and easement interests on rooftops capable of hosting communications equipment in locations where towers are generally not a viable solution based on area characteristics.  In addition, we provide management services to property owners in the United States who elect to retain full rights to their property while simultaneously marketing the rooftop for wireless communications equipment installation. As the demand for advanced wireless devices in urban markets evolves, we continue to evaluate a variety of infrastructure solutions, including small cells, that may support our tenants’ networks in these areas.•Property Interests. We own a portfolio of property interests in the United States under carrier or other third-party communications sites, which provides recurring cash flow under complementary leasing arrangements.•Shared Generators. We have contracts with certain of our tenants in the United States pursuant to which we provide access to shared backup power generators.Services OperationsWe offer tower-related services, including site acquisition, zoning and permitting and structural analysis services. Our services operations primarily support our site leasing business, including through the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. This segment accounted for 2% of our total revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.Site Acquisition, Zoning and Permitting. We engage in site acquisition services on our own behalf in connection with our tower development projects, as well as on behalf of our tenants. We typically work with our tenants’ engineers to determine the geographic areas where new communications sites will best address the tenants’ needs and meet their coverage objectives. Once a new site is identified, we acquire the rights to the land or structure on which the site will be constructed, and we manage the permitting process to ensure all necessary approvals are obtained to construct and operate the communications site.Structural Analysis. We offer structural analysis services to wireless carriers in connection with the installation of their communications equipment on our towers. Our team of engineers can evaluate whether a tower structure can support the additional burden of the new equipment or if an upgrade is needed, which enables our tenants to better assess potential sites before making an installation decision. Our structural analysis capabilities enable us to provide higher quality service to our existing tenants by, among other things, reducing the time required to achieve operational readiness, while also providing opportunities to offer structural analysis services to third parties.3Table of ContentsStrategyOperational StrategyOur operational strategy is to capitalize on the global growth in the use of wireless services and the evolution of advanced wireless handsets, tablets and other mobile devices, and the corresponding expansion of communications infrastructure required to deploy current and future generations of wireless communications technologies. To achieve this, our primary focus is to (i) increase the occupancy of our existing communications real estate portfolio, (ii) invest in and selectively grow our communications real estate portfolio, (iii) further improve upon our operational performance and (iv) maintain a strong balance sheet. We believe these efforts will further support and enhance our ability to capitalize on the growth in demand for wireless infrastructure.•Increase the occupancy of our existing communications real estate portfolio. We believe that our highest returns will be achieved by leasing additional space on our existing communications sites. Increasing demand for wireless services in our served markets has resulted in significant capital spending by major wireless carriers. As a result, we anticipate consistent demand for our communications sites because they are attractively located for wireless service providers and typically have capacity available for additional tenants. In the United States, incremental carrier network activity is being driven primarily by the build-out of fourth generation (4G) networks, while in our international markets, carriers are deploying a combination of second generation (2G), third generation (3G) and 4G networks, depending on the specific market. As of December 31, 2015, we had a global average of approximately 1.8 tenants per tower. We believe that the majority of our towers have capacity for additional tenants and that substantially all of our towers that are currently at or near full structural capacity can be upgraded or augmented to meet future tenant demand with relatively modest capital investment. Therefore, we will continue to target our sales and marketing activities to increase the utilization and return on investment of our existing communications sites.•Invest in and selectively grow our communications real estate portfolio. We seek opportunities to invest in and grow our operations through our capital programs, new site construction and acquisitions. We believe we can achieve attractive risk-adjusted returns by pursuing such investments. In addition, we seek to secure property interests under our communications sites to improve operating margins as we reduce our cash operating expense related to ground leases. A significant portion of our inorganic growth has been focused on properties with lower initial tenancy because we believe that over time, we can significantly increase tenancy levels, and therefore, drive strong returns on those assets.•Further improve upon our operational performance. We continue to seek opportunities to improve our operational performance throughout the organization. This includes investing in our systems and people as we strive to improve efficiency and provide superior service to our customers. To achieve this, we intend to continue to focus on customer service, such as reducing cycle times for key functions, including lease processing and tower structural analysis. •Maintain a strong balance sheet. We remain committed to disciplined financial policies, which we believe result in our ability to maintain a strong balance sheet and will support our overall strategy and focus on asset growth and operational excellence. As a result of these policies, we currently have investment grade credit ratings. We expect to continue to support these policies through, among other things, a combination of debt repayment and our continued growth. We continue to focus on maintaining a robust liquidity position and, as of December 31, 2015, had $1.9 billion of available liquidity. We believe that our investment grade credit ratings provide us consistent access to the capital markets and our liquidity provides us the ability to selectively invest in our portfolio.  Capital Allocation StrategyThe objective of our capital allocation strategy is to simultaneously increase adjusted funds from operations and our return on invested capital over the long term. To maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our stockholders annually an amount equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined before the deduction for distributed earnings and excluding any net capital gain). After complying with our REIT distribution requirements and paying dividends on our preferred stock, we plan to continue to allocate our available capital among investment alternatives that meet our return on investment criteria, while taking into account the repayment of debt, as necessary, consistent with our long-term financial policies. •Capital expenditure program. We will continue to invest in and expand our existing communications real estate portfolio through our annual capital expenditure program. This includes capital expenditures associated with maintenance, increasing the capacity of our existing sites, and projects such as new site construction, land interest acquisitions and shared generator installations.4Table of Contents•Acquisitions. We intend to pursue acquisitions of communications sites in our existing or new markets where we can meet our risk-adjusted return on investment criteria. Our risk-adjusted hurdle rates consider additional risks such as the country and counter-parties involved, investment and economic climate, legal and regulatory conditions and industry risk.•Return excess capital to stockholders. If we have excess capital available after funding (i) our required distributions, (ii) our capital expenditures, (iii) repayment of debt, as necessary, consistent with our long-term financial policies and (iv) anticipated future investments, including acquisition opportunities, we will seek to return such excess capital to stockholders. International Growth StrategyWe believe that, in certain international markets, we can create substantial value by either establishing a new, or expanding our existing, communications real estate leasing business. Therefore, we expect we will continue to seek international growth opportunities where we believe our risk-adjusted return objectives can be achieved. We strive to maintain a diversified approach to our international growth strategy by operating in a geographically diverse array of markets in a variety of stages of wireless network development. Our international growth strategy includes a disciplined, individualized market evaluation, in which we conduct the following analyses, among others:•Country analysis. Prior to entering a new market, we conduct an extensive review of the country’s historical and projected macroeconomic fundamentals, including inflation outlook and foreign currency exchange rate trends, capital markets, tax regime and investment alternatives, and the general business, political and legal environments, including property rights and regulatory regime.•Wireless industry analysis. To confirm the presence of sufficient demand to support an independent tower leasing model, we analyze the competitiveness of the country’s wireless market, such as the pricing environment, past and potential industry consolidation and the stage of its wireless network development. Characteristics that result in an attractive investment opportunity include (i) multiple competitive wireless service providers who are actively seeking to invest in deploying voice and data networks and (ii) ongoing or expected deployment of incremental spectrum from auctions that have occurred or are anticipated to occur.•Opportunity and counterparty analysis. Once an investment opportunity is identified within a geographic area with an attractive wireless industry, we conduct a multifaceted opportunity and counterparty analysis. This includes evaluating (i) the type of transaction, (ii) its ability to meet our risk-adjusted return criteria given the country and the counterparties involved, including the anticipated anchor tenant and (iii) how the transaction fits within our long-term strategic objectives, including future potential investment and expansion within the region.Recent TransactionsAcquisitionsWe increased our communications site portfolio by 25,368 sites in 2015, including 3,235 build-to-suits. We believe these assets will be an important component of our long-term growth. Significant transactions in 2015 included the Verizon Transaction, the acquisition of 5,483 communications sites in Brazil from TIM Celular S.A. (“TIM”) and the acquisition of 4,716 communications sites in Nigeria from certain subsidiaries of Airtel. In addition, in October 2015, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire a 51% controlling ownership interest in Viom.We continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire communications real estate portfolios that we believe we can effectively integrate into our existing business and generate returns that meet or exceed our criteria.  For more information about our acquisitions, see note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.Financing TransactionsDuring 2015, to complement our operational strategy to selectively invest in and grow our communications real estate portfolio, while maintaining our long-term financial policies, we completed a number of key financing initiatives, which, among others, included the following: •Refinancing of GTP Acquisition Partners securitization with proceeds from a private issuance of American Tower Secured Revenue Notes.•Completion of registered public offerings of our common and preferred stock, the net proceeds of which were used to fund a portion of the Verizon Transaction.5Table of Contents•Completion of a registered public offering of senior unsecured notes due 2020 and 2025, the proceeds of which were used to repay indebtedness under our existing credit facilities.For more information about our financing transactions, see Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and notes 8 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.Regulatory MattersTowers and Antennas. Our U.S. and international tower leasing business is subject to national, state and local regulatory requirements with respect to the registration, siting, construction, lighting, marking and maintenance of our towers. In the United States, which accounted for 67% of our total property segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015, the construction of new towers or modifications to existing towers may require pre-approval by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), depending on factors such as tower height and proximity to public airfields. Towers requiring pre-approval must be registered with the FCC and maintained in accordance with FAA standards. Similar requirements regarding pre-approval of the construction and modification of towers are imposed by regulators in other countries. Non-compliance with applicable tower-related requirements may lead to monetary penalties or site deconstruction orders.In India, each of our operating subsidiaries holds an Infrastructure Provider Category-I (“IP-I”) Registration Certificate issued by the Indian Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, which permits us to provide tower space to companies licensed as telecommunications service providers under the Indian Telegraph Act of 1885. As a condition to the IP-I, the Indian government has the right to take over telecommunications infrastructure in the case of emergency or war. In Ghana, our subsidiary holds a Communications Infrastructure License, issued by the National Communications Authority (“NCA”), which permits us to establish and maintain passive telecommunications infrastructure services and DAS networks for communications service providers licensed by the NCA. In Uganda, our subsidiary holds a Public Infrastructure Service License, issued by the Uganda Communications Commission (“UCC”), which permits us to establish and maintain passive telecommunications infrastructure and DAS networks for communication service providers licensed by the UCC. In Nigeria, our subsidiary holds a license for Infrastructure Sharing and Collocation Services, issued by the Nigerian Communications Authority (“NCC”), which permits us to establish and maintain passive telecommunications infrastructure for communication service providers licensed by the NCC. In Chile, our subsidiary is classified as a Telecom Intermediate Service Provider. We have received a number of site specific concessions and are working with the Chilean Subsecretaria de Telecommunicaciones to receive concessions on our remaining sites in Chile. In many of the markets in which we operate we are required to provide tower space to service providers on a non-discriminatory basis, subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable terms. Our international business operations may be subject to increased licensing fees or ownership restrictions. For example, in South Africa, the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, 2003 (the “BBBEE Act”) has established a legislative framework for the promotion of economic empowerment of South African citizens disadvantaged by Apartheid. Accordingly, the BBBEE Act and related codes measure BBBEE Act compliance and good corporate practice by the inclusion of certain ownership, management control, employment equity and other metrics for companies that do business there. In addition, certain municipalities have sought to impose permit fees based upon structural or operational requirements of towers. Our foreign operations may be affected if a country’s regulatory authority restricts or revokes spectrum licenses of certain wireless service providers or implements limitations on foreign ownership.In all countries where we operate, we are subject to zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by local authorities or community organizations. While these regulations vary, they typically require tower owners or tenants to obtain approval from local authorities or community standards organizations prior to tower construction or the addition of a new antenna to an existing tower. Local zoning authorities and community residents often oppose construction in their communities, which can delay or prevent new tower construction, new antenna installation or site upgrade projects, thereby limiting our ability to respond to tenant demand. This opposition and existing or new zoning regulations can increase costs associated with new tower construction, tower modifications, and additions of new antennas to a site or site upgrades, as well as adversely affect the associated timing or cost of such projects. Further, additional regulations may be adopted that cause delays or result in additional costs to us. These factors could materially and adversely affect our operations. In the United States, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibits any action by state and local authorities that would discriminate between different providers of wireless services or ban altogether the construction, modification or placement of communications sites. It also prohibits state or local restrictions based on the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent the facilities comply with FCC regulations. Further, in February 2012, the United States government adopted regulations requiring that local and state governments approve modifications or collocations that qualify as eligible facilities under the regulations. 6Table of ContentsPortions of our business are subject to additional regulations, for example, in a number of states throughout the United States, certain of our subsidiaries hold Competitive Local Exchange Carrier (CLEC) or other status, in connection with the operation of our outdoor DAS networks business. In addition, we, or our tenants, may be subject to new regulatory policies in certain jurisdictions from time to time that may materially and adversely affect our business or the demand for our communications sites.Environmental Matters. Our U.S. and international operations are subject to various national, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances, materials and wastes and the siting of our towers.  We may be required to obtain permits, pay additional property taxes, comply with regulatory requirements and make certain informational filings related to hazardous substances or devices used to provide power such as batteries, generators and fuel at our sites. Violations of these types of regulations could subject us to fines or criminal sanctions.Additionally, in the United States and other international markets where we do business, before constructing a new tower or adding an antenna to an existing site, we must review and evaluate the impact of the action to determine whether it may significantly affect the environment and whether we must disclose any significant impacts in an environmental assessment. If a tower or new antenna might have a material adverse impact on the environment, FCC or other governmental approval of the tower or antenna could be significantly delayed.Health and Safety. In the United States and in other countries where we operate, we are subject to various national, state and local laws regarding employee health and safety, including protection from radio frequency exposure.CompetitionWe compete, both for new business and for the acquisition of assets, with other public tower companies, such as Crown Castle International Corp., SBA Communications Corporation, Telesites S.A.B. de C.V. and GTL Infrastructure Limited, wireless carrier tower consortia such as Indus Towers Limited and private tower companies, private equity sponsored firms, independent wireless carriers, tower owners, broadcasters and owners of non-communications sites, including rooftops, utility towers, water towers and other alternative structures. We believe that site location and capacity, network density, price, quality and speed of service have been, and will continue to be, significant competitive factors affecting owners, operators and managers of communications sites.Our services business competes with a variety of companies offering individual, or combinations of, competing services. The field of competitors includes site acquisition consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consultants, structural engineering firms, tower owners/managers, telecommunications equipment vendors who can provide turnkey site development services through multiple subcontractors and our tenants’ personnel. We believe that our tenants base their decisions for services on various criteria, including a company’s experience, local reputation, price and time for completion of a project.Customer DemandOur strategy is predicated on the belief that wireless service providers will continue to invest in the coverage, quality and capacity of their networks in both our U.S. and international markets, driving demand for our communications sites.•U.S. wireless network investments. According to industry data, aggregate annual wireless capital spending in the United States has averaged over $30 billion, resulting in consistent demand for our sites. Demand for our U.S. communications sites is driven by:•Increasing wireless data usage, which continues to incentivize wireless service providers to focus on network quality and make incremental investments in the coverage and capacity of their networks;•Subscriber adoption of advanced wireless data applications such as mobile Internet and video, increasingly advanced devices and the corresponding deployments and densification of advanced networks by wireless service providers to satisfy this incremental demand for high-bandwidth wireless data;•Deployment of newly acquired spectrum; and•Deployment of wireless and backhaul networks by new market entrants.7Table of ContentsAs consumer demand for and use of advanced wireless services in the United States grow, wireless service providers may be compelled to deploy new technology and equipment, further increase the cell density of their existing networks and expand their network coverage.•International (Asia, EMEA and Latin America) wireless network investments. The wireless networks in most of our international markets are typically less advanced than those in our U.S. market with respect to the density of voice networks and the current technologies generally deployed for wireless services. Accordingly, demand for our international communications sites is primarily driven by:•Incumbent wireless service providers investing in existing voice networks to improve or expand their coverage and increase capacity;•In certain of our international markets, increasing subscriber adoption of wireless data applications, such as email, Internet and video; •Spectrum auctions, which result in new market entrants, as well as initial and incremental data network deployments; and•The increasing availability of lower cost smartphones internationally.We believe demand for our communications sites will continue as wireless service providers seek to increase the quality, coverage area and capacity of their existing networks, while also investing in next generation data networks. To meet these network objectives, we believe wireless carriers will continue to outsource their communications site infrastructure needs as a means to accelerate network development and more efficiently use their capital, rather than construct and operate their own communications sites and maintain their own communications site operation and development capabilities. In addition, because our services operations are complementary to our property business, we believe demand for our services will continue, consistent with industry trends.Demand for our communications sites could be negatively impacted by an increase in network sharing or consolidation among our tenants, as set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption “Risk Factors—If our tenants share site infrastructure to a significant degree or consolidate or merge, our growth, revenue and ability to generate positive cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.” In addition, the emergence and growth of new technologies could reduce demand for our sites, as set forth under the caption “Risk Factors—New technologies or changes in a tenant’s business model could make our tower leasing business less desirable and result in decreasing revenues.” Further, our tenants may be subject to new regulatory policies from time to time that materially and adversely affect the demand for our communications sites. EmployeesAs of December 31, 2015, we employed 3,371 full-time individuals and consider our employee relations to be satisfactory.Available InformationOur Internet website address is www.americantower.com. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, and you should not consider information contained on our website as part of this Annual Report. You may access, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, plus amendments to such reports as filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), through the “Investor Relations” portion of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).We have adopted a written Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Policy (the “Code of Conduct”) that applies to all of our employees and directors, including, but not limited to, our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Conduct is available on the “Corporate Responsibility” portion of our website and our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of the audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees of our Board of Directors are available on the “Investor Relations” portion of our website. In the event we amend the Code of Conduct, or provide any waivers of the Code of Conduct to our directors or executive officers, we will disclose these events on our website as required by the regulations of the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) and applicable law.8Table of ContentsIn addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing us at the following address: 116 Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02116, Attention: Investor Relations; or by calling us at (617) 375-7500.ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSDecrease in demand for our communications sites would materially and adversely affect our operating results, and we cannot control that demand.A significant reduction in leasing demand for our communications sites and, to a lesser extent, demand for our services, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Factors that may affect such demand include:•increased use of network sharing or mergers or consolidations among wireless service providers;•zoning, environmental, health, tax or other government regulations or changes in the application and enforcement thereof;•governmental licensing of spectrum or restricting or revoking our customers’ spectrum licenses;•a decrease in consumer demand for wireless services, including due to general economic conditions or disruption in the financial and credit markets;•the ability and willingness of wireless service providers to maintain or increase capital expenditures on network infrastructure;•the financial condition of wireless service providers;•delays or changes in the deployment of next generation wireless technologies; and•technological changes.If our tenants share site infrastructure to a significant degree or consolidate or merge, our growth, revenue and ability to generate positive cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Extensive sharing of site infrastructure, roaming or resale arrangements among wireless service providers as an alternative to leasing our communications sites, without compensation to us, may cause new lease activity to slow if carriers utilize shared equipment rather than deploy new equipment, or may result in the decommissioning of equipment on certain existing sites because portions of the tenants’ networks may become redundant. In addition, significant consolidation among our tenants may materially and adversely affect our growth and revenues. Certain combined companies have rationalized duplicative parts of their networks or modernized their networks, and these and other tenants could determine not to renew leases with us as a result. Our ongoing contractual revenues and our future results may be negatively impacted if a significant number of these leases are not renewed.Increasing competition for tenants in the tower industry may materially and adversely affect our pricing.Our industry is highly competitive and our tenants have numerous alternatives in leasing antenna space. Competitive pricing from competitors could materially and adversely affect our lease rates. We may not be able to renew existing tenant leases or enter into new tenant leases, or if we are able to renew or enter new leases, it may be at rates lower than our current rates, resulting in a material adverse impact on our results of operations and growth rate. In addition, should inflation rates exceed our fixed escalator percentages in markets where our leases include fixed escalators, our income could be adversely affected.  Competition for assets could adversely affect our ability to achieve our return on investment criteria.We may experience increased competition for assets, which could make the acquisition of high quality assets significantly more costly or prohibitive.  Some of our competitors are larger and may have greater financial resources than we do, while other competitors may apply less stringent investment criteria than we do. In addition, we may not anticipate increased competition entering a particular market or competing for the same assets. Higher prices for assets could make it more difficult to achieve our anticipated returns on investment or future growth, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Our business is subject to government and tax regulations and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do.Our business and that of our tenants are subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulations. In certain jurisdictions, these regulations could be applied or enforced retroactively, which could require that we modify or dismantle existing towers. Zoning authorities and community organizations are often opposed to construction of communications sites in their communities, which can delay, prevent or increase the cost of new tower construction, modifications, additions of new antennas to a site or site upgrades, thereby limiting our ability to respond to tenant demands. Existing regulatory policies may materially 9Table of Contentsand adversely affect the timing or cost of construction projects associated with our communications sites and new regulations may be adopted that increase delays or result in additional costs to us, or that prevent such projects in certain locations, and noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. In certain jurisdictions, there may be changes to zoning regulations or construction laws based on site location, which may result in increased costs to modify certain of our existing towers or decreased revenue due to the removal of certain towers to ensure compliance with such changes. In addition, in certain jurisdictions, we are required to pay annual license fees, which may be subject to substantial increases by the government, or new fees may be enacted and apply retroactively. Furthermore, the tax laws, regulations and interpretations governing our business in jurisdictions that we operate may change at any time, perhaps with retroactive effect. This includes potential changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws arising out of the “base erosion profit shifting” or “BEPS” project initiated by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). In addition, some of these changes could have a more significant impact on us as a REIT as compared to other REITs due to the nature of our business and our use of TRSs. These factors could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our leverage and debt service obligations may materially and adversely affect us, including our ability to raise additional financing to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives and to satisfy our distribution requirements.Our leverage and debt service obligations could have significant negative consequences to our business, results of operations or financial condition, including:•impairing our ability to meet one or more of the financial ratio covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to pay interest or principal due under those agreements, which could result in an acceleration of some or all of our outstanding debt and the loss of the towers securing such debt if an uncured default occurs;•increasing our borrowing costs if our current investment grade debt ratings decline;•limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing, thereby increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources, including with respect to acquiring assets;•requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, REIT distributions and preferred stock dividends; and•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we compete.We may need to raise additional capital through debt financing activities, assets sales or equity issuances, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable, to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives and to satisfy our distribution requirements and debt service obligations. An increase in our total leverage could lead to a downgrade of our credit rating below investment grade, which could negatively impact our ability to access credit markets or preclude us from obtaining funds on investment grade terms and conditions. Further, certain of our current debt instruments limit the amount of indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur. Additional financing, therefore, may be unavailable, more expensive or restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness.  Our expansion initiatives involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including those related to integration of acquired or leased assets, that could adversely affect our operating results, disrupt our operations or expose us to additional risk.As we continue to acquire communications sites in our existing markets and expand into new markets, we are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including not meeting our return on investment criteria and financial objectives, increased costs, assumed liabilities and the diversion of managerial attention due to acquisitions. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on timely and efficiently integrating operations, communications tower portfolios and personnel. Integration may be difficult and unpredictable for many reasons, including, among other things, portfolios without requisite permits, differing systems, cultural differences, and conflicting policies, procedures and operations. Significant acquisition-related integration costs, including certain non-recurring charges, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which such charges are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid. In addition, integrating businesses may significantly burden management and internal resources, including the potential loss or unavailability of key personnel. For example, the integration of the Verizon assets into our operations is a significant undertaking, and we anticipate that we will continue to incur certain non-recurring charges associated with that integration, including costs for tower visits and audits and ground and tenant lease verifications. If we fail to successfully integrate the assets we acquire or fail to utilize such assets to their full capacity, we may not realize the benefits we expect from our acquired 10Table of Contentsportfolios, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our international expansion initiatives are subject to additional risks such as those described in the risk factor immediately below.As a result of prior acquisitions, we have a substantial amount of intangible assets and goodwill. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”), we are required to assess our goodwill and other intangible assets annually or more frequently in the event of circumstances indicating potential impairment to determine if they are impaired. If the testing performed indicates that an asset may not be recoverable, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or the estimated fair value of other intangible assets in the period the determination is made.Our expansion initiatives may not be successful or we may be required to record impairment charges for our goodwill or for other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position, including risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.Our international business operations and our expansion into new markets in the future exposes us to potential adverse financial and operational problems not typically experienced in the United States. We anticipate that our revenues from our international operations will continue to grow. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including:•changes to existing or new tax laws or methodologies impacting our international operations, fees directed specifically at the ownership and operation of communications sites or our international acquisitions, any of which may be applied or enforced retroactively, or failure to obtain an expected tax status for which we have applied;•laws or regulations that tax or otherwise restrict repatriation of earnings or other funds or otherwise limit distributions of capital;•changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, including inflation or currency devaluation;•changes to zoning regulations or construction laws, which could be applied retroactively to our existing communications sites;•expropriation or governmental regulation restricting foreign ownership or requiring reversion or divestiture;•actions restricting or revoking our customers’ spectrum licenses or suspending or terminating business under prior licenses;•failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar local anti-bribery laws, or Office of Foreign Assets Control requirements;•material site security issues;•significant increase in or implementation of new license surcharges on our revenue;•price setting or other similar laws or regulations for the sharing of passive infrastructure; and•uncertain or inconsistent laws, regulations, rulings or results from legal or judicial systems, which may be enforced retroactively, and delays in the judicial process.We also face risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including those arising from our operations, investments and financing transactions related to our international business. Volatility in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect our ability to plan, forecast and budget for our international operations and expansion efforts. Our revenues earned from our international operations are primarily denominated in their respective local currencies. We have not historically engaged in significant currency hedging activities relating to our non-U.S. Dollar operations, and a weakening of these foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar would negatively impact our reported revenues, operating profits and income.In our international operations, many of our tenants are subsidiaries of global telecommunications companies. These subsidiaries may not have the explicit or implied financial support of their parent entities.In addition, as we continue to invest in joint venture opportunities internationally, our partners may have business or economic goals that are inconsistent with ours, be in positions to take action contrary to our interests, policies or objectives, have competing interests in our, or other, markets that could create conflict of interest issues, withhold consents contrary to our requests or become unable or unwilling to fulfill their commitments, any of which could expose us to additional liabilities or costs, including requiring us to assume and fulfill the obligations of that joint venture.New technologies or changes in a tenant’s business model could make our tower leasing business less desirable and result in decreasing revenues.11Table of ContentsThe development and implementation of new technologies designed to enhance the efficiency of wireless networks or changes in a tenant’s business model could reduce the need for tower-based wireless services, decrease demand for tower space or reduce previously obtainable lease rates. In addition, tenants may allocate less of their budgets to lease space on our towers, as the industry is trending towards deploying increased capital to the development and implementation of new technologies. Examples of these technologies include spectrally efficient technologies, which could relieve a portion of our tenants’ network capacity needs and as a result, could reduce the demand for tower-based antenna space. Additionally, certain small cell complementary network technologies could shift a portion of our tenants’ network investments away from the traditional tower-based networks, which may reduce the need for carriers to add more equipment at certain communications sites. Moreover, the emergence of alternative technologies could reduce the need for tower-based broadcast services transmission and reception. Further, a tenant may decide to no longer outsource tower infrastructure or otherwise change its business model, which would result in a decrease in our revenue. The development and implementation of any of these and similar technologies to any significant degree or changes in a tenant’s business model could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of tenants, and we are sensitive to changes in the creditworthiness and financial strength of our tenants.A substantial portion of our total operating revenues is derived from a small number of tenants. If any of these tenants is unwilling or unable to perform its obligations under our agreements with it, our revenues, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In the ordinary course of our business, we do occasionally experience disputes with our tenants, generally regarding the interpretation of terms in our leases. Historically, we have resolved these disputes in a manner that did not have a material adverse effect on us or our tenant relationships. However, it is possible that such disputes could lead to a termination of our leases with tenants or a material modification of the terms of those leases, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we are forced to resolve any of these disputes through litigation, our relationship with the applicable tenant could be terminated or damaged, which could lead to decreased revenue or increased costs, resulting in a corresponding adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.Due to the long-term nature of our tenant leases, we depend on the continued financial strength of our tenants. Many wireless service providers operate with substantial leverage. Sometimes our tenants, or their parent companies, face financial difficulty or file for bankruptcy.In addition, many of our tenants and potential tenants rely on capital raising activities to fund their operations and capital expenditures, which may be more difficult or expensive in the event of downturns in the economy or disruptions in the financial and credit markets. If our tenants or potential tenants are unable to raise adequate capital to fund their business plans, they may reduce their spending, which could materially and adversely affect demand for our communications sites and our services business. If, as a result of a prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, one or more of our significant tenants experienced financial difficulties or filed for bankruptcy, it could result in uncollectible accounts receivable and an impairment of our deferred rent asset, tower asset, network location intangible asset or customer-related intangible asset. The loss of significant tenants, or the loss of all or a portion of our anticipated lease revenues from certain tenants, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.If we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we will be subject to tax at corporate income tax rates, which may substantially reduce funds otherwise available, and even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may face tax liabilities that impact earnings and available cash flow.Commencing with the taxable year beginning January 1, 2012, we have operated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be taxed at corporate income tax rates unless certain relief provisions apply.Qualification for taxation as a REIT requires the application of certain highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), which provisions may change from time to time, to our operations as well as various factual determinations concerning matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. Further, tax reform proposals, if enacted, may adversely affect our ability to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT or the benefits of remaining so qualified. There are limited judicial or administrative interpretations of the relevant provisions of the Code.If, in any taxable year, we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT and are not entitled to relief under the Code:•we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;•we will be subject to federal and state income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate tax rates; and12Table of Contents•we will be disqualified from REIT tax treatment for the four taxable years immediately following the year during which we were so disqualified.We are subject to certain federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and assets, including alternative minimum taxes, taxes on any undistributed income and state, local or foreign income, franchise, property and transfer taxes. While state and local income tax regimes often parallel the U.S. federal income tax regime for REITs, many of these jurisdictions do not completely follow U.S. federal rules and some may not follow them at all.  For example, some state and local jurisdictions currently or in the future may limit or eliminate a REIT’s deduction for dividends paid, which could increase our income tax expense. We are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign tax authorities. The results of an audit and examination of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability.Our domestic TRS assets and operations will continue to be subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporation income taxes.  Our foreign operations, whether in the REIT or TRSs, will continue to be subject to foreign taxes in jurisdictions in which those assets and operations are located.Any corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes. If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may need to borrow additional funds or liquidate some investments to pay any additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment, operations and distribution would be reduced.Furthermore, as a result of our acquisition of MIP Tower Holdings LLC (“MIPT”), we owned an interest in a subsidiary REIT. Effective July 25, 2015, we filed a tax election, pursuant to which MIPT no longer operates as a separate REIT. The statute of limitations is still open for certain years and MIPT’s qualification as a REIT could still be challenged. As such, for all open years, we must demonstrate that the subsidiary REIT complied with the same REIT requirements that we must satisfy in order to qualify as a REIT, together with all other rules applicable to REITs. If the subsidiary REIT is determined to have failed to qualify as a REIT for any of the open years, and certain relief provisions do not apply, then (i) the subsidiary REIT would have been subject to federal income tax for such year, which tax we would inherit along with applicable penalties and interest; (ii) the subsidiary REIT would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the remaining taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost; (iii) for those years in which the subsidiary REIT failed to qualify as a REIT, our ownership of shares in such subsidiary REIT would have failed to be a qualifying asset for purposes of the asset tests applicable to REITs and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary REIT may cease to be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the 75% gross income test and (iv) we may have failed certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs, in which event we would fail to qualify as a REIT for those periods unless we are able to avail ourselves of specified relief provisions.Complying with REIT requirements may limit our flexibility or cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.Our use of TRSs enables us to engage in non-REIT qualifying business activities.  Under the Code, no more than 25% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs and other non-qualifying assets. Effective January 1, 2018, this limitation is reduced to 20%.  This limitation may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, including the purchase of non-qualifying assets, the expansion of non-real estate activities and investments in the businesses to be conducted by our TRSs, and to that extent limit our opportunities and our flexibility to change our business strategy.Specifically, this limitation may affect our ability to make additional investments in our managed networks business or services segment as currently structured and operated, in other non-REIT qualifying operations or assets, or in international operations conducted through TRSs that we do not elect to bring into the REIT structure. Further, acquisition opportunities in U.S. and international markets may be adversely affected if we need or require the target company to comply with certain REIT requirements prior to closing.Further, as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders an amount equal to at least 90% of the REIT taxable income (determined before the deduction for distributed earnings and excluding any net capital gain). To meet our annual distribution requirements, we may be required to distribute amounts that may otherwise be used for our operations, including amounts that may otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt.  As no more than 25% of our gross income may consist of dividend income from our TRSs and other non-qualifying types of income, our ability to receive distributions from our TRSs may be limited and may impact our ability to fund distributions to our stockholders or to use income of our TRSs to fund other investments. 13Table of ContentsIn addition, the majority of our income and cash flows from our TRSs are generated from our international operations. In many cases, there are local withholding taxes and currency controls that may impact our ability or willingness to repatriate funds to the United States to help satisfy REIT distribution requirements.If we are unable to protect our rights to the land under our towers, it could adversely affect our business and operating results.Our real property interests relating to our towers consist primarily of leasehold and sub-leasehold interests, fee interests, easements, licenses and rights-of-way. A loss of these interests at a particular tower site may interfere with our ability to operate tower sites and generate revenues. For various reasons, we may not always have the ability to access, analyze and verify all information regarding titles and other issues prior to completing an acquisition of communications sites, which can affect our rights to access and operate a site. From time to time we also experience disputes with landowners regarding the terms of ground agreements for land under towers, which can affect our ability to access and operate tower sites. Further, for various reasons, landowners may not want to renew their ground agreements with us, they may lose their rights to the land, or they may transfer their land interests to third parties, including ground lease aggregators, which could affect our ability to renew ground agreements on commercially viable terms. A significant number of the communications sites in our portfolio are located on land we lease pursuant to long-term operating leases. Further, for various reasons, title to property interests in some of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may not be as certain as title to our property interests in the United States. Our inability to protect our rights to the land under our towers may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.If we are unable or choose not to exercise our rights to purchase towers that are subject to lease and sublease agreements at the end of the applicable period, our cash flows derived from such towers will be eliminated.Our communications real estate portfolio includes towers that we operate pursuant to lease and sublease agreements that include a purchase option at the end of each lease period. We may not have the required available capital to exercise our right to purchase leased or subleased towers at the end of the applicable period, or we may choose, for business or other reasons, not to exercise our right to purchase such towers. In the event that we do not exercise these purchase rights, or are otherwise unable to acquire an interest that would allow us to continue to operate these towers after the applicable period, we will lose the cash flows derived from such towers. In the event that we decide to exercise these purchase rights, the benefits of the acquisitions of a significant number of towers may not exceed the associated acquisition, compliance and integration costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.Restrictive covenants in the agreements related to our securitization transactions, our credit facilities and our debt securities and the terms of our preferred stock could materially and adversely affect our business by limiting flexibility, and we may be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock, which may jeopardize our qualification for taxation as a REIT.The agreements related to our securitization transactions include operating covenants and other restrictions customary for loans subject to rated securitizations. Among other things, the borrowers under the agreements are prohibited from incurring other indebtedness for borrowed money or further encumbering their assets. A failure to comply with the covenants in the agreements could prevent the borrowers from taking certain actions with respect to the secured assets and could prevent the borrowers from distributing any excess cash from the operation of such assets to us. If the borrowers were to default on any of the loans, the servicer on such loan could seek to foreclose upon or otherwise convert the ownership of the secured assets, in which case we could lose such assets and the cash flow associated with such assets.The agreements for our credit facilities also contain restrictive covenants and leverage and other financial maintenance tests that could limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, guaranteeing indebtedness or making distributions to stockholders, including our required REIT distributions, and engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and sales of assets. Additionally, our debt agreements restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur liens securing our or their indebtedness. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, new tower development, mergers and acquisitions or other opportunities. Further, reporting and information covenants in our credit agreements and indentures require that we provide financial and operating information within certain time periods. If we are unable to provide the required information on a timely basis, we would be in breach of these covenants. For more information regarding the covenants and requirements discussed above, please see Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Factors Affecting Sources of Liquidity” and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.The terms of our preferred stock provide that, unless full cumulative dividends have been paid or set aside for payment on all outstanding preferred stock for all prior dividend periods, no dividends may be declared or paid on our common stock. A 14Table of Contentsfailure to pay dividends on both our preferred and our common stock might jeopardize our qualification for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Even if these limits do not jeopardize our qualification for taxation as a REIT, they may prevent us from distributing 100% of our REIT taxable income, making us subject to federal corporate income tax, and potentially a nondeductible excise tax, on the retained amounts.Our costs could increase and our revenues could decrease due to perceived health risks from radio emissions, especially if these perceived risks are substantiated.Public perception of possible health risks associated with cellular and other wireless communications technology could slow the growth of wireless companies, which could in turn slow our growth. In particular, negative public perception of, and regulations regarding, these perceived health risks could undermine the market acceptance of wireless communications services and increase opposition to the development and expansion of tower sites. If a scientific study or court decision resulted in a finding that radio frequency emissions pose health risks to consumers, it could negatively impact our tenants and the market for wireless services, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We do not maintain any significant insurance with respect to these matters.We could have liability under environmental and occupational safety and health laws.Our operations are subject to the requirements of various federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations, including those relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances, materials and wastes. As the owner, lessee or operator of real property and facilities, including generators, we may be liable for substantial costs of investigation, removal or remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous materials, and for damages and costs relating to off-site migration of hazardous materials, without regard to whether we, as the owner, lessee or operator, knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. We may also be liable for certain costs of remediating contamination at third-party sites to which we sent waste for disposal, even if the original disposal may have complied with all legal requirements at the time. Many of these laws and regulations contain information reporting and record keeping requirements. We may not be at all times in compliance with all environmental requirements. We may be subject to potentially significant fines or penalties if we fail to comply with any of these requirements. The requirements of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. In certain jurisdictions these laws and regulations could be applied or enforced retroactively. It is possible that these requirements will change or that liabilities will arise in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.Our towers, data centers or computer systems may be affected by natural disasters and other unforeseen events for which our insurance may not provide adequate coverage.Our towers are subject to risks associated with natural disasters, such as ice and wind storms, tornadoes, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes, as well as other unforeseen events, such as acts of terrorism. Any damage or destruction to, or inability to access, our towers or data centers may impact our ability to provide services to our tenants and lead to tenant loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. As part of our normal business activities, we rely on information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational, reporting and compliance activities and to maintain our business records. Our computer systems could fail on their own accord and are subject to interruption or damage from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (including through cyber attack and data theft), usage errors, catastrophic events such as natural disasters and other events beyond our control. Although we have disaster recovery programs and security measures in place, if our computer systems and our backup systems are compromised, degraded, damaged, or breached, or otherwise cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations or unintentionally allow misappropriation of proprietary or confidential information (including information about our tenants or landlords), which could damage our reputation and require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues.While we maintain insurance coverage for natural disasters, we may not have adequate insurance to cover the associated costs of repair or reconstruction for a major future event. We carry business interruption insurance, but our insurance may not adequately cover all of our lost revenue, including from new tenants that could have been added to our towers but for the event. Further, we may be liable for damage caused by towers that collapse for any number of reasons including structural deficiencies, which could harm our reputation and require us to incur costs for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage.15Table of ContentsITEM 1B