ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash
    flows, and prospects, and the prevailing market price and
    performance of our common stock, may be adversely affected by a
    number of factors, including the matters discussed below.
    Certain statements and information set forth in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K,
    as well as other written or oral statements made from time to
    time by us or by our authorized



    
    11



 




    officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking
    statements” within the meaning of the Federal Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as
    “anticipates,” “believes,”
    “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,”
    “may,” “plans,” “seeks,”
    “projects,” “will,” “would,” and
    similar expressions are intended to identify such
    forward-looking statements. We intend for our forward-looking
    statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for
    forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we set forth this statement
    in order to comply with such safe harbor provisions. You should
    note that our forward-looking statements speak only as of the
    date of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    or when made and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or
    revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
    new information, future events, or otherwise. Although we
    believe that the expectations, plans, intentions, and
    projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are
    reasonable, such statements are subject to known and unknown
    risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our
    actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially
    different from any future results, performance, or achievements
    expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The
    risks, uncertainties, and other factors that our stockholders
    and prospective investors should consider include, but are not
    limited to, the following:


 



    The
    automotive retailing industry is sensitive to changing economic
    conditions and various other factors. Our business and results
    of operations are substantially dependent on new vehicle sales
    levels in the United States and in our particular geographic
    markets and the level of gross profit margins that we can
    achieve on our sales of new vehicles, all of which are very
    difficult to predict.


 


    We believe that many factors affect sales of new vehicles and
    automotive retailers’ gross profit margins in the United
    States and in our particular geographic markets, including the
    economy, fuel prices, credit availability, interest rates,
    consumer confidence, the level of personal discretionary
    spending, unemployment rates, the state of housing markets, auto
    emission and fuel economy standards, the rate of inflation, the
    level of manufacturers’ production capacity, manufacturer
    incentives (and consumers’ reaction to such offers),
    intense industry competition, the prospects of war, other
    international conflicts or terrorist attacks, severe weather
    events, product quality, affordability and innovation, the
    number of consumers whose vehicle leases are expiring, and the
    length of consumer loans on existing vehicles. Changes in
    interest rates can significantly impact industry new vehicle
    sales and vehicle affordability due to the direct relationship
    between interest rates and monthly loan payments, a critical
    factor for many vehicle buyers, and the impact interest rates
    have on customers’ borrowing capacity and disposable
    income. Sales of certain new vehicles, particularly larger
    trucks and sports utility vehicles that historically have
    provided us with higher gross margins, are sensitive to fuel
    prices and the level of construction activity. In 2008, new
    vehicle sales were impacted by unfavorable economic conditions
    in the United States, including the continued turbulence in the
    credit and housing markets, and experienced a significant
    decline. See the risk factor “Our results of operations
    and financial condition have been and could continue to be
    adversely affected by the conditions in the credit markets and
    the declining economic conditions in the United States”
    below. Additionally, in 2008, volatility in fuel prices impacted
    consumer preferences and caused dramatic swings in consumer
    demand for various vehicle models, which led to supply and
    demand imbalances.


 


    In the fourth quarter of 2008, the seasonally adjusted annual
    rate of new vehicle sales in the United States was
    10.3 million. In comparison, full-year U.S. industry new
    vehicle sales were 13.2 million in 2008 and
    16.1 million in 2007. We expect that the
    U.S. automotive retail market will remain challenging in
    2009. Our new vehicle sales may differ from industry sales due
    to particular economic conditions and other factors in the
    geographic markets in which we operate. Economic conditions and
    the other factors described above may also materially adversely
    impact our sales of used vehicles, parts and automotive repair
    and maintenance services, and automotive finance and insurance
    products.


 



    Our
    results of operations and financial condition have been and
    could continue to be adversely affected by the conditions in the
    credit markets and the declining economic conditions in the
    United States.


 


    The recent turmoil in the credit markets has resulted in tighter
    credit conditions and has adversely impacted our business. In
    the automotive finance market, tight credit conditions have
    resulted in a decrease in the availability of automotive loans
    and leases and more stringent lending restrictions.
    Additionally, the



    
    12



 




    declining economic conditions in the United States have
    adversely impacted demand for new and used vehicles. As a
    result, our new and used vehicle sales and margins have been
    adversely impacted. If the unfavorable economic conditions
    continue and the availability of automotive loans and leases
    remains limited, we anticipate that our vehicle sales and
    margins will continue to be adversely impacted. In addition, we
    obtain a significant amount of financing for our customers
    through the captive finance companies of automotive
    manufacturers, including the domestic manufacturers whose
    finance companies have been adversely affected by the conditions
    in the credit markets. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the
    availability of automotive loans and leases through certain of
    these companies declined significantly, forcing us to seek
    alternate financing sources. To the extent that we are unable to
    obtain financing for our customers through these companies, our
    sales of vehicles, particularly domestic, could continue to be
    adversely affected.


 


    We also rely on floorplan financing to purchase new vehicle
    inventory, primarily through the manufacturer-related captive
    finance companies. Certain of these companies have altered their
    floorplan programs to our detriment, providing additional
    restrictions on lending and increasing interest rates. To the
    extent that these companies cannot or are unwilling to provide
    floorplan financing on customary terms, we would need to seek
    floorplan financing from other lenders. Any inability to obtain
    floorplan financing on customary terms, or the termination of
    our floorplan financing agreements by our floorplan lenders, in
    which case we could be required to repay our floorplan financing
    on demand, could materially adversely affect our results of
    operations, financial condition, and cash flows.


 



    Our
    revolving credit facility, term loan facility, mortgage
    facility, and the indenture relating to our senior unsecured
    notes contain certain financial ratios and other restrictions on
    our ability to conduct our business.


 


    The indenture relating to our senior unsecured notes and the
    amended credit agreement relating to our revolving credit
    facility and term loan facility contain numerous financial and
    operating covenants that limit the discretion of our management
    with respect to various business matters. These covenants place
    significant restrictions on, among other things, our ability to
    incur additional indebtedness, to create liens or other
    encumbrances, to make certain payments (including dividends and
    repurchases of our shares) and investments, and to sell or
    otherwise dispose of assets and merge or consolidate with other
    entities. A failure by us to comply with the obligations
    contained in our amended credit agreement or the indenture
    relating to our senior unsecured notes could result in an event
    of default under our amended credit agreement or the indenture,
    which could permit acceleration of the related debt and
    acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain
    cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If any debt is
    accelerated, our liquid assets may not be sufficient to repay in
    full such indebtedness and our other indebtedness. In addition,
    we have granted certain manufacturers the right to acquire, at
    fair market value, our automotive stores franchised by that
    manufacturer in specified circumstances in the event of our
    default under the indenture for our senior unsecured notes or
    the amended credit agreement for our revolving credit facility
    and term loan facility.


 


    Under our amended credit agreement, we are required to remain in
    compliance with a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a
    maximum capitalization ratio. See “Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Restrictions and Covenants” in
    Part II, Item 7 of this
    Form 10-K.
    The decline in our earnings has adversely impacted our
    consolidated leverage ratio. Recent impairment charges
    associated with goodwill and franchise rights have adversely
    impacted our capitalization ratio. See “Liquidity and
    Capital Resources — Restrictions and Covenants”
    in Part II, Item 7 of this
    Form 10-K.
    If our earnings continue to decline or if we are required to
    record additional charges in the future, we may be unable to
    comply with the financial ratios required by our amended credit
    agreement. In such case, we would seek an amendment or waiver of
    our amended credit agreement or consider other options, such as
    raising capital through an equity issuance to pay down debt,
    which could be dilutive to stockholders. There can be no
    assurance that our lenders would agree to an amendment or waiver
    of our amended credit agreement. In the event we obtain an
    amendment or waiver of our amended credit agreement, we would
    likely incur additional fees and higher interest expense.



    
    13



 





    Our
    substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial
    condition and operations and prevent us from fulfilling our debt
    service obligations.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately
    $1.3 billion of total indebtedness (including amounts
    outstanding under our mortgage facility and capital leases but
    excluding floorplan financing), and our subsidiaries also had
    $1.9 billion of floorplan financing. Our substantial
    indebtedness could have important consequences. For example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We may have difficulty satisfying our debt service obligations
    and, if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of
    default could result;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash
    flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness,
    thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working
    capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general
    corporate activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Covenants relating to our indebtedness may limit our ability to
    obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
    acquisitions, and other general corporate activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Covenants relating to our indebtedness may limit our flexibility
    in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the
    industry in which we operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may be more vulnerable to the impact of economic downturns
    and adverse developments in our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may be placed at a competitive disadvantage against any less
    leveraged competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our variable interest rate debt will fluctuate with changing
    market conditions and, accordingly, our interest expense will
    increase if interest rates rise; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Future share repurchases are subject to limitations contained in
    the indenture relating to our senior unsecured notes.





 


    The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations, prospects, and ability to satisfy our debt service
    obligations.


 



    We are
    dependent upon the success and continued financial viability of
    the vehicle manufacturers and distributors with which we hold
    franchises.


 


    The success of our stores is dependent on vehicle manufacturers
    in several key respects. First, we rely exclusively on the
    various vehicle manufacturers for our new vehicle inventory. Our
    ability to sell new vehicles is dependent on a vehicle
    manufacturer’s ability to produce and allocate to our
    stores an attractive, high-quality, and desirable product mix at
    the right time in order to satisfy customer demand. Second,
    manufacturers generally support their franchisees by providing
    direct financial assistance in various areas, including, among
    others, floorplan assistance and advertising assistance. Third,
    manufacturers provide product warranties and, in some cases,
    service contracts, to customers. Our stores perform warranty and
    service contract work for vehicles under manufacturer product
    warranties and service contracts, and direct bill the
    manufacturer as opposed to invoicing the store customer. At any
    particular time, we have significant receivables from
    manufacturers for warranty and service work performed for
    customers. In addition, we rely on manufacturers to varying
    extents for original equipment manufactured replacement parts,
    training, product brochures and point of sale materials, and
    other items for our stores.


 


    The core brands of vehicles that we sell are manufactured by
    Toyota, Ford, Honda, Nissan, General Motors, Daimler, BMW, and
    Chrysler. In 2008, our Ford, General Motors, and Chrysler stores
    represented 13%, 12%, and 5% of our new vehicle revenue,
    respectively. We are subject to a concentration of risk in the
    event of financial distress, including potential bankruptcy, of
    a major vehicle manufacturer such as Ford, General Motors, or
    Chrysler. In the event of such a bankruptcy, among other things,
    (i) the manufacturer could attempt to terminate our
    floorplan financing or all or certain of our franchises, in
    which case we may not receive adequate compensation for our
    franchises, (ii) consumer demand for their products could
    be materially adversely affected, (iii) we may be unable to
    obtain financing for our new vehicle inventory, or to arrange



    
    14



 




    financing for our customers for their vehicle purchases and
    leases, through the manufacturer’s captive finance
    subsidiary, in which case we would be required to seek financing
    with alternate finance sources, which may be difficult to obtain
    on similar terms, if at all, and (iv) we may be unable to
    collect some or all of our significant receivables that are due
    from such manufacturers and we may be subject to preference
    claims relating to payments made by manufacturers prior to
    bankruptcy. Additionally, these events may result in us being
    required to incur impairment charges with respect to the
    inventory, fixed assets, and intangible assets related to
    certain franchises, which could adversely impact our results of
    operations, financial condition, and our ability to remain in
    compliance with the financial ratios contained in our debt
    agreements.


 


    Vehicle manufacturers may be adversely impacted by economic
    downturns or recessions, significant declines in the sales of
    their new vehicles, increases in interest rates, declines in
    their credit ratings, labor strikes or similar disruptions
    (including within their major suppliers), supply shortages or
    rising raw material costs, rising employee benefit costs,
    adverse publicity that may reduce consumer demand for their
    products (including due to bankruptcy), product defects, vehicle
    recall campaigns, litigation, poor product mix or unappealing
    vehicle design, governmental laws and regulations, or other
    adverse events. In 2008, vehicle manufacturers, in particular
    domestic manufacturers, were adversely impacted by the
    unfavorable economic conditions in the United States. See
    “Market Challenges” in Part II, Item 7 of
    this
    Form 10-K.


 


    Additionally, vehicle manufacturers are subject to federally
    mandated corporate average fuel economy standards, which will
    increase substantially as a result of legislation passed in
    2007. California and other states, in an effort to reduce
    greenhouse gases, have enacted, or proposed to enact, automotive
    emissions standards through legislation or regulations that,
    pending an expected waiver from the federal government, could
    significantly increase fuel economy requirements in those
    states. Significant increases in fuel economy requirements or
    automotive emissions standards could materially adversely affect
    the ability of the manufacturers to produce and our ability to
    sell vehicles in demand by consumers at affordable prices,
    particularly larger vehicles, which represent a significant
    portion of our business. These and other risks could materially
    adversely affect any manufacturer and impact its ability to
    profitably design, market, produce, or distribute new vehicles,
    which in turn could materially adversely affect our ability to
    obtain or finance our desired new vehicle inventories, our
    ability to take advantage of manufacturer financial assistance
    programs, our ability to collect in full or on a timely basis
    our manufacturer warranty and other receivables,
    and/or our
    ability to obtain other goods and services provided by the
    impacted manufacturer. Our business, results of operations,
    financial condition, shareholders’ equity, cash flows, and
    prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of
    any event that has a material adverse effect on the vehicle
    manufacturers or distributors who are our primary franchisors.


 



    Goodwill
    and other intangible assets comprise a significant portion of
    our total assets. We must test our intangible assets for
    impairment at least annually, which could result in a material,
    non-cash write-down of goodwill or franchise rights and could
    have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and
    shareholders’ equity.


 


    Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles are subject to
    impairment assessments at least annually (or more frequently
    when events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may
    have occurred) by applying a fair-value based test. Our
    principal intangible assets are goodwill and our rights under
    our franchise agreements with vehicle manufacturers. During
    2008, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of
    $1.76 billion ($1.46 billion after-tax) associated
    with goodwill and franchise rights. We may be required to incur
    additional impairment charges in the future. Additional
    impairment losses could have an adverse impact on our ability to
    satisfy the financial ratios or other covenants under our debt
    agreements and could have a material adverse impact on our
    results of operations and shareholders’ equity.


 



    Our
    new vehicle sales are impacted by the consumer incentive and
    marketing programs of vehicle manufacturers.


 


    Most vehicle manufacturers from time to time have established
    various incentive and marketing programs designed to spur
    consumer demand for their vehicles. In addition, certain
    manufacturers offer extended product warranties or free service
    programs to consumers. From time to time, manufacturers modify
    and



    
    15



 




    discontinue these dealer assistance and consumer incentive and
    marketing programs, which could have a significant adverse
    effect on our new vehicle and aftermarket product sales, results
    of operations, and cash flows.


 



    Natural
    disasters and adverse weather events can disrupt our
    business.


 


    Our stores are concentrated in states and regions in the United
    States, including primarily Florida, Texas, and California, in
    which actual or threatened natural disasters and severe weather
    events (such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, landslides, and
    hail storms) may disrupt our store operations, which may
    adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial
    condition, and cash flows. In addition to business interruption,
    the automotive retailing business is subject to substantial risk
    of property loss due to the significant concentration of
    property values at store locations. Although we have, subject to
    certain deductibles, limitations, and exclusions, substantial
    insurance, we cannot assure you that we will not be exposed to
    uninsured or underinsured losses that could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations, or cash flows.


 



    We are
    subject to restrictions imposed by and significant influence
    from vehicle manufacturers that may adversely impact our
    business, financial condition, results of operations, cash
    flows, and prospects, including our ability to acquire
    additional stores.


 


    Vehicle manufacturers and distributors with whom we hold
    franchises have significant influence over the operations of our
    stores. The terms and conditions of our framework, franchise,
    and related agreements and the manufacturers’ interests and
    objectives may, in certain circumstances, conflict with our
    interests and objectives. For example, manufacturers can set
    performance standards with respect to sales volume, sales
    effectiveness, and customer satisfaction, and can influence our
    ability to acquire additional stores, the naming and marketing
    of our stores, the operations of our
    e-commerce
    sites, our selection of store management, the condition of our
    store facilities, product stocking and advertising spending
    levels, and the level at which we capitalize our stores.
    Manufacturers may also have certain rights to restrict our
    ability to provide guaranties of our operating companies,
    pledges of the capital stock of our subsidiaries, and liens on
    our assets, which could adversely impact our ability to obtain
    financing for our business and operations on favorable terms or
    at desired levels. From time to time, we are precluded under
    agreements with certain manufacturers from acquiring additional
    franchises, or subject to other adverse actions, to the extent
    we are not meeting certain performance criteria at our existing
    stores (with respect to matters such as sales volume, sales
    effectiveness, and customer satisfaction) until our performance
    improves in accordance with the agreements, subject to
    applicable state franchise laws.


 


    Manufacturers also have the right to establish new franchises or
    relocate existing franchises, subject to applicable state
    franchise laws. The establishment or relocation of franchises in
    our markets could have a material adverse effect on the
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and
    prospects of our stores in the market in which the franchise
    action is taken.


 


    Our framework, franchise, and related agreements also grant the
    manufacturer the right to terminate or compel us to sell our
    franchise for a variety of reasons (including uncured
    performance deficiencies, any unapproved change of ownership or
    management, or any unapproved transfer of franchise rights or
    impairment of financial standing or failure to meet capital
    requirements), subject to applicable state franchise laws. From
    time to time, certain major manufacturers assert sales and
    customer satisfaction performance deficiencies under the terms
    of our framework and franchise agreements. Additionally, our
    framework agreements contain restrictions regarding a change in
    control, which may be outside of our control. See
    “Agreements with Vehicle Manufacturers” in
    Part I, Item 1 of this
    Form 10-K.
    While we believe that we will be able to renew all of our
    franchise agreements, we cannot guarantee that all of our
    franchise agreements will be renewed or that the terms of the
    renewals will be favorable to us. We cannot assure you that our
    stores will be able to comply with manufacturers’ sales,
    customer satisfaction performance, and other requirements in the
    future, which may affect our ability to acquire new stores or
    renew our franchise agreements, or subject us to other adverse
    actions, including termination or compelled sale of a franchise,
    any of which could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and
    prospects. Furthermore, we rely on the



    
    16



 




    protection of state franchise laws in the states in which we
    operate and if those laws are repealed or weakened, our
    framework, franchise, and related agreements may become more
    susceptible to termination, non-renewal, or renegotiation.


 


    In addition, we have granted certain manufacturers the right to
    acquire, at fair market value, our automotive dealerships
    franchised by that manufacturer in specified circumstances in
    the event of our default under the indenture for our senior
    unsecured notes or the amended credit agreement for our
    revolving credit facility and term loan facility.


 


    We are subject to numerous legal and administrative
    proceedings, which, if the outcomes are adverse to us, could
    materially adversely affect our business, results of operations,
    financial condition, cash flows, and prospects.


 


    We are involved and will continue to be involved in numerous
    legal proceedings arising out of the conduct of our business,
    including litigation with customers, employment-related
    lawsuits, class actions, purported class actions, and actions
    brought by governmental authorities. We do not believe that the
    ultimate resolution of these matters will have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition, or cash flows. However, the results of these matters
    cannot be predicted with certainty, and an unfavorable
    resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition, cash flow, and prospects.


 


    Our operations, including, without limitation, our sales
    of finance and insurance and vehicle protection products, are
    subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations. If we
    are found to be in violation of or subject to liabilities under
    any of these laws or regulations, or if new laws or regulations
    are enacted that adversely affect our operations, our business,
    operating results, and prospects could suffer.


 


    The automotive retailing industry, including our facilities and
    operations, is subject to a wide range of federal, state, and
    local laws and regulations, such as those relating to motor
    vehicle sales, retail installment sales, leasing, sales of
    finance, insurance, and vehicle protection products, licensing,
    consumer protection, consumer privacy, escheatment, money
    laundering, environmental, vehicle emissions and fuel economy,
    health and safety,
    wage-hour,
    anti-discrimination, and other employment practices. With
    respect to motor vehicle sales, retail installment sales,
    leasing, and the sale of finance, insurance, and vehicle
    protection products at our stores, we are subject to various
    laws and regulations, the violation of which could subject us to
    consumer class action or other lawsuits or governmental
    investigations and adverse publicity, in addition to
    administrative, civil, or criminal sanctions. The violation of
    other laws and regulations to which we are subject also can
    result in administrative, civil, or criminal sanctions against
    us, which may include a cease and desist order against the
    subject operations or even revocation or suspension of our
    license to operate the subject business, as well as significant
    fines and penalties. We currently devote significant resources
    to comply with applicable federal, state, and local regulation
    of health, safety, environmental, zoning, and land use
    regulations, and we may need to spend additional time, effort,
    and money to keep our operations and existing or acquired
    facilities in compliance therewith. In addition, we may be
    subject to broad liabilities arising out of contamination at our
    currently and formerly owned or operated facilities, at
    locations to which hazardous substances were transported from
    such facilities, and at such locations related to entities
    formerly affiliated with us. Although for some such liabilities
    we believe we are entitled to indemnification from other
    entities, we cannot assure you that such entities will view
    their obligations as we do or will be able to satisfy them.
    Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may have
    an adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition, cash flows, and prospects.


 


    The enactment of new laws and regulations that materially impair
    or restrict our sales, finance and insurance, or other
    operations could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and
    prospects. We expect that new laws and regulations, particularly
    at the federal level, in the labor, employment, environmental,
    and consumer protection areas will be enacted, which could
    significantly increase our costs.



    
    17



 




    We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with
    our floorplan payable, revolving credit facility, term loan
    facility, and floating rate senior unsecured notes that could
    have a material adverse effect on our profitability.


 


    Most of our debt, including our floorplan payable, is subject to
    variable interest rates. Our variable interest rate debt will
    fluctuate with changing market conditions and, accordingly, our
    interest expense will increase if interest rates rise. In
    addition, our net inventory carrying cost (new vehicle floorplan
    interest expense net of floorplan assistance that we receive
    from automotive manufacturers) may increase due to changes in
    interest rates, inventory levels, and manufacturer assistance.
    We cannot assure you that a significant increase in interest
    rates would not have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.


 


    Our largest stockholder, as a result of its voting
    ownership, may have the ability to exert substantial influence
    over actions to be taken or approved by our stockholders.


 


    As of February 6, 2009, ESL Investments, Inc. and certain
    of its investment affiliates (together, “ESL”)
    beneficially owned approximately 45% of the outstanding shares
    of our common stock. As a result, ESL may have the ability to
    exert substantial influence over actions to be taken or approved
    by our stockholders, including the election of directors and any
    transactions involving a change of control. William C. Crowley,
    one of our directors, is the President and Chief Operating
    Officer of ESL Investments, Inc. In the future, ESL may acquire
    or sell shares of common stock and thereby increase or decrease
    its ownership stake in us.


 


    In January 2009, our Board of Directors authorized and approved
    letter agreements with certain automotive manufacturers in order
    to, among other things, eliminate any potential adverse
    consequences under our framework agreements with those
    manufacturers in the event that ESL acquires 50% or more of our
    common stock. Certain of those letter agreements also contain
    governance-related and other provisions. In addition, our Board
    authorized and approved a separate letter agreement between the
    Company and ESL (the “ESL Agreement”) in which ESL has
    agreed to vote shares of our common stock owned by ESL in excess
    of 45% in the same proportion as all non-ESL-owned shares are
    voted. The ESL Agreement expires on January 28, 2010,
    unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties. For
    additional information regarding these letter agreements, see
    “Agreements with Vehicle Manufacturers” in
    Part I, Item 1 of this
    Form 10-K.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B