ITEM 1A.  RISK
    FACTORS


 


    Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash
    flows, and prospects, and the prevailing market price and
    performance of our common stock, may be adversely affected by a
    number of factors, including the matters discussed below.
    Certain statements and information set forth in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K,
    as well as other written or oral statements made from time to
    time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf,
    constitute “forward-looking statements” within the
    meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
    of 1995. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be
    covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking
    statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform
    Act of 1995. You should note that our forward-looking statements
    speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    or when made and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or
    revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
    new information, future events, or otherwise. Although we
    believe that the expectations, plans, intentions, and
    projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are
    reasonable, such statements are subject to known and unknown
    risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our
    actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially
    different from any future results,



    
    10



Table of Contents




    performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the
    forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties, and other
    factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should
    consider include, but are not limited to, the following:


 



    The
    automotive retailing industry is sensitive to changing economic
    conditions and various other factors. Our business and results
    of operations are substantially dependent on new vehicle sales
    levels in the United States and in our particular geographic
    markets and the level of gross profit margins that we can
    achieve on our sales of new vehicles, all of which are very
    difficult to predict.


 


    We believe that many factors affect sales of new vehicles and
    automotive retailers’ gross profit margins in the United
    States and in our particular geographic markets, including the
    economy, inflation, recession or economic slowdown, consumer
    confidence, housing markets, fuel prices, credit availability,
    the level of manufacturers’ production capacity,
    manufacturer incentives (and consumers’ reaction to such
    offers), intense industry competition, interest rates, the
    prospects of war, other international conflicts or terrorist
    attacks, severe weather conditions, the level of personal
    discretionary spending, product quality, affordability and
    innovation, employment/unemployment rates, the number of
    consumers whose vehicle leases are expiring, and the length of
    consumer loans on existing vehicles. Changes in interest rates
    could significantly impact industry new vehicle sales and
    vehicle affordability, due to the direct relationship between
    interest rates and monthly loan payments, a critical factor for
    many vehicle buyers, and the impact interest rates can have on
    customers’ borrowing capacity and disposable income. If
    there is a decline in the availability of credit, particularly
    in the
    sub-prime
    lending market, the ability of certain consumers to purchase
    vehicles could be limited, resulting in a decline in sales or
    profits. Sales of certain new vehicles, particularly larger
    trucks and sports utility vehicles that historically have
    provided us with higher gross margins, also could be impacted by
    fuel prices and the level of construction activity. In 2006 and
    2007, new vehicle sales in the United States experienced a
    significant decline, driven in part by significant weakness in
    the housing market, particularly in California and Florida. In
    2007, approximately 50% of our new vehicle revenue was generated
    by our stores in California and Florida. Continued weakness or a
    lengthy downturn in the housing market could materially
    adversely impact our sales.


 


    Our new vehicle sales may differ from industry sales, due to
    particular economic conditions and other factors in the
    geographic markets in which we operate. We expect new vehicle
    sales in the United States to decrease in 2008. A significant
    decrease in new vehicle sales levels in the United States (or in
    our particular geographic markets) in the future, or a decrease
    in new vehicle gross profit margins, could cause our actual
    earnings results to differ materially from our prior results and
    projected trends. Economic conditions and the other factors
    described above also may materially adversely impact our sales
    of used vehicles, finance and vehicle protection products,
    vehicle service, and parts and repair services.


 



    We are
    dependent upon the success and continued financial viability of
    the vehicle manufacturers and distributors with which we hold
    franchises.


 


    The success of our stores is dependent on vehicle manufacturers
    in several key respects. First, we rely exclusively on the
    various vehicle manufacturers for our new vehicle inventory. Our
    ability to sell new vehicles is dependent on a vehicle
    manufacturer’s ability to produce and allocate to our
    stores an attractive, high quality, and desirable product mix at
    the right time in order to satisfy customer demand. Second,
    manufacturers generally support their franchisees by providing
    direct financial assistance in various areas, including, among
    others, inventory financing assistance and advertising
    assistance. Third, manufacturers provide product warranties and,
    in some cases, service contracts, to customers. Our stores
    perform warranty and service contract work for vehicles under
    manufacturer product warranties and service contracts, and
    direct bill the manufacturer as opposed to invoicing the store
    customer. At any particular time, we have significant
    receivables from manufacturers for warranty and service work
    performed for customers. In addition, we rely on manufacturers
    to varying extents for original equipment manufactured
    replacement parts, training, product brochures and point of sale
    materials, and other items for our stores.


 


    The core brands of vehicles that we sell are manufactured by
    Toyota, Ford, General Motors, Honda, Nissan, Chrysler, Daimler,
    and BMW. In particular, our Ford Motor Company and General
    Motors Corporation



    
    11



Table of Contents




    stores represented over 27% of our new vehicle revenue in 2007.
    We are subject to a concentration of risk in the event of
    financial distress, including potential bankruptcy, of a major
    vehicle manufacturer such as Ford or General Motors. In the
    event of such a bankruptcy, among other things, (i) the
    manufacturer could attempt to terminate all or certain of our
    franchises, and we may not receive adequate compensation for
    them, (ii) we may not be able to collect some or all of our
    significant receivables that are due from such manufacturers and
    we may be subject to preference claims relating to payments made
    by manufacturers prior to bankruptcy, (iii) we may not be
    able to obtain financing for our new vehicle inventory, or
    arrange financing for our customers for their vehicle purchases
    and leases, with the manufacturer’s captive finance
    subsidiary, which may cause us to finance our new vehicle
    inventory, and arrange financing for our customers, with
    alternate finance sources on less favorable terms, and
    (iv) consumer demand for their products could be materially
    adversely affected. These events may result in a partial or
    complete write-down of our goodwill, intangible franchise rights
    with respect to any terminated franchises,
    and/or
    receivables due from such manufacturers and adversely impact our
    results of operations. In addition, vehicle manufacturers may be
    adversely impacted by economic downturns or recessions,
    significant declines in the sales of their new vehicles,
    increases in interest rates, declines in their credit ratings,
    labor strikes or similar disruptions (including within their
    major suppliers), supply shortages or rising raw material costs,
    rising employee benefit costs, adverse publicity that may reduce
    consumer demand for their products (including due to
    bankruptcy), product defects, vehicle recall campaigns,
    litigation, poor product mix or unappealing vehicle design,
    governmental laws and regulations, or other adverse events.
    Vehicle manufacturers are subject to federally mandated
    corporate average fuel economy standards, which will increase
    substantially as a result of legislation passed in 2007.
    California and other states, in an effort to reduce greenhouse
    gases, have enacted, or proposed to enact, automotive emissions
    standards through legislation or regulations that, pending the
    outcome of certain legal challenges
    and/or
    federal legislative or regulatory action, could significantly
    increase fuel economy requirements in those states. Significant
    increases in fuel economy requirements or automotive emissions
    standards could materially adversely affect the ability of the
    manufacturers to produce and for us to sell, at affordable
    prices, the vehicles in demand by consumers, particularly larger
    vehicles, which represent a significant portion of our business.
    These and other risks could materially adversely affect any
    manufacturer and impact its ability to profitably design,
    market, produce, or distribute new vehicles, which in turn could
    materially adversely affect our ability to obtain or finance our
    new desired vehicle inventories, our ability to take advantage
    of manufacturer financial assistance programs, our ability to
    collect in full or on a timely basis our manufacturer warranty
    and other receivables,
    and/or our
    ability to obtain other goods and services provided by the
    impacted manufacturer. Our business, results of operations,
    financial condition, shareholders’ equity, cash flows, and
    prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of
    any event that has a material adverse effect on the vehicle
    manufacturers or distributors who are our primary franchisors.


 



    Our
    new vehicle sales are impacted by the consumer incentive and
    marketing programs of vehicle manufacturers.


 


    Most vehicle manufacturers from time to time have established
    various incentive and marketing programs designed to spur
    consumer demand for their vehicles. In addition, certain
    manufacturers offer extended product warranties or free service
    programs to consumers. From time to time, manufacturers modify
    and discontinue these dealer assistance and consumer incentive
    and marketing programs, which could have a significant adverse
    effect on our new vehicle and aftermarket product sales,
    consolidated results of operations, and cash flows.


 



    Natural
    disasters and adverse weather events can disrupt our
    business.


 


    Our stores are concentrated in states and regions in the United
    States, including primarily Florida, Texas, and California, in
    which actual or threatened natural disasters and severe weather
    events (such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, landslides, and
    hail storms) may disrupt our store operations, which may
    adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial
    condition, and cash flows. In addition to business interruption,
    the automotive retailing business is subject to substantial risk
    of property loss due to the significant concentration of
    property values at store locations. Although we have, subject to
    certain deductibles, limitations, and exclusions, substantial
    insurance, we cannot assure you that we will not be exposed to
    uninsured or



    
    12



Table of Contents




    underinsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition, results of operations, or
    cash flows.


 



    We are
    subject to restrictions imposed by, and significant influence
    from, vehicle manufacturers that may adversely impact our
    business, financial condition, results of operations, cash
    flows, and prospects, including our ability to acquire
    additional stores.


 


    Vehicle manufacturers and distributors with whom we hold
    franchises have significant influence over the operations of our
    stores. The terms and conditions of our framework, franchise,
    and related agreements and the manufacturers’ interests and
    objectives may, in certain circumstances, conflict with our
    interests and objectives. For example, manufacturers can set
    performance standards with respect to sales volume, sales
    effectiveness, and customer satisfaction, and can influence our
    ability to acquire additional stores, the naming and marketing
    of our stores, the operations of our
    e-commerce
    sites, our selection of store management, the condition of our
    store facilities, product stocking and advertising spending
    levels, and the level at which we capitalize our stores.
    Manufacturers may also have certain rights to restrict our
    ability to provide guaranties of our operating companies,
    pledges of the capital stock of our subsidiaries, and liens on
    our assets, which could adversely impact our ability to obtain
    financing for our business and operations on favorable terms or
    at desired levels. From time to time, we are precluded under
    agreements with certain manufacturers from acquiring additional
    franchises, or subject to other adverse actions, to the extent
    we are not meeting certain performance criteria at our existing
    stores (with respect to matters such as sales volume, sales
    effectiveness, and customer satisfaction) until our performance
    improves in accordance with the agreements, subject to
    applicable state franchise laws.


 


    Manufacturers also have the right to establish new franchises or
    relocate existing franchises, subject to applicable state
    franchise laws. The establishment or relocation of franchises in
    our markets could have a material adverse effect on the
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and
    prospects of our stores in the market in which the franchise
    action is taken.


 


    Our framework, franchise, and related agreements also grant the
    manufacturer the right to terminate or compel us to sell our
    franchise for a variety of reasons (including uncured
    performance deficiencies, any unapproved change of ownership or
    management, or any unapproved transfer of franchise rights or
    impairment of financial standing or failure to meet capital
    requirements), subject to applicable state franchise laws. From
    time to time, certain major manufacturers assert sales and
    customer satisfaction performance deficiencies under the terms
    of our framework and franchise agreements. Additionally, our
    framework agreements contain restrictions regarding a change in
    control, which may be outside of our control. While we believe
    that we will be able to renew all of our franchise agreements,
    we cannot guarantee that all of our franchise agreements will be
    renewed or that the terms of the renewals will be favorable to
    us. We cannot assure you that our stores will be able to comply
    with manufacturers’ sales, customer satisfaction
    performance, and other requirements in the future, which may
    affect our ability to acquire new stores or renew our franchise
    agreements, or subject us to other adverse actions, including
    termination or compelled sale of a franchise, any of which could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations, cash flows, and prospects. Furthermore,
    we rely on the protection of state franchise laws in the states
    in which we operate and if those laws are repealed or weakened,
    our framework and related agreements may become more susceptible
    to termination, non-renewal, or renegotiation.


 


    In addition, we have granted certain manufacturers the right to
    acquire, at fair market value, our automotive dealerships
    franchised by that manufacturer in specified circumstances in
    the event of our default under the indenture for our senior
    unsecured notes or the amended credit agreement for our
    revolving credit facility and term loan facility.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    We are
    subject to numerous legal and administrative proceedings, which,
    if the outcomes are adverse to us, could materially adversely
    affect our business, results of operations, financial condition,
    cash flows, and prospects.


 


    We are involved, and will continue to be involved, in numerous
    legal proceedings arising out of the conduct of our business,
    including litigation with customers, employment-related
    lawsuits, class actions, purported class actions, and actions
    brought by governmental authorities. We do not believe that the
    ultimate resolution of these matters will have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition, or cash flows. However, the results of these matters
    cannot be predicted with certainty, and an unfavorable
    resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition, cash flow, and prospects.


 



    Our
    operations, including, without limitation, our sales of finance
    and insurance and vehicle protection products, are subject to
    extensive governmental laws and regulations. If we are found to
    be in violation of, or subject to liabilities under, any of
    these laws or regulations, or if new laws or regulations are
    enacted that adversely affect our operations, our business,
    operating results, and prospects could suffer.


 


    The automotive retailing industry, including our facilities and
    operations, is subject to a wide range of federal, state, and
    local laws and regulations, such as those relating to motor
    vehicle sales, retail installment sales, leasing, sales of
    finance, insurance, and vehicle protection products, licensing,
    consumer protection, consumer privacy, escheatment, money
    laundering, environmental, vehicle emissions and fuel economy,
    health and safety,
    wage-hour,
    anti-discrimination, and other employment practices.
    Specifically with respect to motor vehicle sales, retail
    installment sales, leasing, and the sale of finance, insurance,
    and vehicle protection products at our stores, we are subject to
    various laws and regulations, the violation of which could
    subject us to consumer class action or other lawsuits or
    governmental investigations and adverse publicity, in addition
    to administrative, civil, or criminal sanctions. The violation
    of other laws and regulations to which we are subject also can
    result in administrative, civil, or criminal sanctions against
    us, which may include a cease and desist order against the
    subject operations or even revocation or suspension of our
    license to operate the subject business, as well as significant
    fines and penalties. We currently devote significant resources
    to comply with applicable federal, state, and local regulation
    of health, safety, environmental, zoning, and land use
    regulations, and we may need to spend additional time, effort,
    and money to keep our operations and existing or acquired
    facilities in compliance therewith. In addition, we may be
    subject to broad liabilities arising out of contamination at our
    currently and formerly owned or operated facilities, at
    locations to which hazardous substances were transported from
    such facilities, and at such locations related to entities
    formerly affiliated with us. Although for some such liabilities
    we believe we are entitled to indemnification from other
    entities, we cannot assure you that such entities will view
    their obligations as we do, or will be able to satisfy them.
    Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may have
    an adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition, cash flows, and prospects.


 


    Legislative or similar measures have recently been enacted or
    pursued in certain states in which we operate to limit the fees
    that dealerships may earn in connection with arranging financing
    for vehicle purchasers, to require disclosure to consumers of
    the fees that stores earn to arrange financing, and to enact
    other additional regulations with respect to various aspects of
    our business, including with respect to the sale of used
    vehicles and finance and insurance products. Recent litigation
    against certain vehicle manufacturers’ captive finance
    subsidiaries alleging discriminatory lending practices has
    resulted in settlements, and may result in future settlements,
    that could reduce the fees earned by our stores in connection
    with the origination of consumer loans. The enactment of laws
    and regulations that materially impair or restrict our finance
    and insurance or other operations could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition, cash flows, and prospects.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    Goodwill
    and other intangible assets comprise a significant portion of
    our total assets. We must test our intangible assets for
    impairment at least annually, which may result in a material,
    non-cash write down of goodwill or franchise rights and could
    have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and
    shareholders’ equity.


 


    Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles are subject to
    impairment assessments at least annually (or more frequently
    when events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may
    have occurred) by applying a fair-value based test. Our
    principal intangible assets are goodwill and our rights under
    our franchise agreements with vehicle manufacturers. The risk of
    impairment losses may increase to the extent our market
    capitalization and earnings decline. Impairment losses may
    result in a material, non-cash write-down of goodwill or
    franchise values. Furthermore, impairment losses could have an
    adverse impact on our ability to satisfy the financial ratios or
    other covenants under our debt agreements and could have a
    material adverse impact on our results of operations and
    shareholders’ equity.


 



    Our
    ability to grow our business may be limited by our ability to
    acquire automotive stores on favorable terms or at
    all.


 


    The automotive retail industry is a mature industry.
    Accordingly, the growth of our automotive retail business since
    our inception has been primarily attributable to acquisitions of
    franchised automotive dealership groups. As described above,
    manufacturer approval of our proposed acquisitions generally is
    subject to our compliance with applicable performance standards
    (including with respect to matters such as sales volume, sales
    effectiveness, and customer satisfaction) or established
    acquisition limits, particularly regional and local market
    limits. In addition, in the current environment, it has been
    difficult to identify dealership acquisitions in our core
    markets that meet our return on investment targets. As a result,
    we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire stores
    selling desirable automotive brands at desirable locations in
    our key markets or that any such acquisitions can be completed
    on favorable terms or at all. Acquisitions involve a number of
    risks, many of which are unpredictable and difficult to quantify
    or assess, including, among other matters, risks relating to
    known and unknown liabilities of the acquired business and
    projected operating performance.


 



    We are
    subject to interest rate risk in connection with our floorplan
    notes payable, revolving credit facility, term loan facility,
    and floating rate senior unsecured notes that could have a
    material adverse effect on our profitability.


 


    Most of our debt, including our floorplan notes, is subject to
    variable interest rates. The variable interest rates under our
    revolving credit facility, term loan facility, mortgage facility
    (variable interest rate through November 20, 2007, fixed
    interest rate thereafter), floating rate senior unsecured notes,
    and certain of our floorplan notes payable all increased in 2006
    and 2007. Our variable interest rate debt will fluctuate with
    changing market conditions and, accordingly, our interest
    expense will increase if interest rates rise. In addition, our
    net inventory carrying cost (floorplan interest expense net of
    floorplan assistance that we receive from automotive
    manufacturers) may increase due to changes in interest rates,
    inventory levels, and manufacturer assistance. We cannot assure
    you that a significant increase in interest rates would not have
    a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    results of operations, or cash flows.


 



    Our
    revolving credit facility, term loan facility, mortgage
    facility, and the indenture relating to our senior unsecured
    notes contain certain restrictions on our ability to conduct our
    business.


 


    The indenture relating to our senior unsecured notes and the
    amended credit agreement relating to our revolving credit
    facility and term loan facility contain numerous financial and
    operating covenants that limit the discretion of our management
    with respect to various business matters. These covenants place
    significant restrictions on, among other things, our ability to
    incur additional indebtedness, to create liens or other
    encumbrances, to make certain payments (including dividends and
    repurchases of our shares) and investments, and to sell or
    otherwise dispose of assets and merge or consolidate with other
    entities. Our amended credit agreement also requires us to meet
    certain financial ratios and tests that may require us to take
    action to reduce debt or act in a manner contrary to our
    business objectives. A failure by us to comply with the
    obligations contained in our amended credit agreement or the
    indenture relating to our senior unsecured notes



    
    15



Table of Contents




    could result in an event of default under our amended credit
    agreement or the indenture, which could permit acceleration of
    the related debt and acceleration of debt under other
    instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default
    provisions. If any debt is accelerated, our liquid assets may
    not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness and our
    other indebtedness. In addition, we have granted certain
    manufacturers the right to acquire, at fair market value, our
    automotive stores franchised by that manufacturer in specified
    circumstances in the event of our default under the indenture
    for our senior unsecured notes or the amended credit agreement
    for our revolving credit facility and term loan facility.


 



    Our
    substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial
    condition and operations and prevent us from fulfilling our debt
    service obligations. We may still be able to incur more debt,
    intensifying these risks.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately
    $1.8 billion of total indebtedness (including amounts
    outstanding under our mortgage facility and capital leases but
    excluding floorplan financing), and our subsidiaries also had
    $2.2 billion of floorplan financing. In addition, we had
    the ability to borrow $361.2 million additional
    indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. Our
    substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For
    example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We may have difficulty satisfying our debt service obligations
    and, if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of
    default could result;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash
    flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness,
    thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working
    capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general
    corporate activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Covenants relating to our indebtedness may limit our ability to
    obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
    acquisitions, and other general corporate activities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Covenants relating to our indebtedness may limit our flexibility
    in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the
    industry in which we operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may be more vulnerable to the impact of economic downturns
    and adverse developments in our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may be placed at a competitive disadvantage against any less
    leveraged competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our variable interest rate debt will fluctuate with changing
    market conditions and, accordingly, our interest expense will
    increase if interest rates rise; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Our future share repurchases are subject to limitations
    contained in the indenture relating to our senior unsecured
    notes.





 


    The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations, prospects, and ability to satisfy our debt service
    obligations. Subject to restrictions in the indenture governing
    our senior unsecured notes and in the amended credit agreement
    governing our revolving credit facility and term loan facility,
    we may incur additional indebtedness, which could increase the
    risks associated with our already substantial indebtedness.


 



    Our
    largest stockholder, as a result of its voting ownership, may
    have the ability to exert substantial influence over actions to
    be taken or approved by our stockholders.


 


    ESL Investments, Inc., together with its investment affiliates
    (collectively, “ESL”), beneficially owns approximately
    35% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (as of
    February 26, 2008). As a result, ESL may have the ability to
    exert substantial influence over actions to be taken or approved
    by our stockholders, including the election of directors and any
    transactions involving a change of control. William C. Crowley,
    one of our directors, is the President and Chief Operating
    Officer of ESL Investments, Inc. In the future, ESL may acquire
    or sell shares of common stock and thereby increase or decrease
    its ownership stake in us.



    
    16



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    ITEM 1B