; "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview" included in Part II, Item 7; and Note 3, “Business Acquisitions and Divestiture - Pending Acquisition of Cigna Corporation" included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In February 2015, we reported that we were the target of a sophisticated external cyber attack. The attackers gained unauthorized access to certain of our information technology systems and obtained personal information related to many individuals and employees. We have continued to implement security enhancements since this incident and are supporting federal law enforcement efforts to identify the responsible parties. For additional information about the cyber attack, see Note -3-13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Cyber Attack Incident,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  On February 17, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Simply Healthcare, a leading managed care company for people enrolled in Medicaid and Medicare programs in Florida. This acquisition aligns with our strategy for continued growth in our Government Business segment. As a result, we serve more than six hundred thousand members in Florida through our affiliated Amerigroup and Simply Healthcare Medicaid and Medicare plans. For additional information, see Note 3, “Business Acquisitions and Divestiture - Acquisition of Simply Healthcare" included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have a vision of becoming America's valued health partner. Together we are transforming health care with trusted and caring solutions and as a result, we focus on delivering quality products and services that give members access to the care they need. With an unyielding commitment to meeting the needs of our diverse customers, we are guided by the following values:•Accountable•Caring•Easy to do business with•Innovative•TrustworthyWe offer a broad spectrum of network-based managed care plans to large and small employer, individual, Medicaid and Medicare markets. Our managed care plans include: preferred provider organizations, or PPOs; health maintenance organizations, or HMOs; point-of-service, or POS, plans; traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including consumer-driven health plans, or CDHPs; and hospital only and limited benefit products. In addition, we provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services. We provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal health care. We also provide services to the federal government in connection with the Federal Employee Program, or FEP. The increased focus on health care costs by employers, the government and consumers has continued to drive the growth of alternatives to traditional indemnity health insurance. HMO, PPO and hybrid plans, such as POS plans and CDHPs, are among the various forms of managed care products that have been developed. Through these types of products, insurers attempt to contain the cost of health care by negotiating contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers to deliver high quality health care to members at favorable rates. These products usually feature medical management and other quality and cost optimization measures such as pre-admission review and approval for certain non-emergency services, pre-authorization of outpatient surgical procedures, network credentialing to determine that network doctors and hospitals have the required certifications and expertise, and various levels of care management programs to help members better understand and navigate the health care system. In addition, providers may have incentives to achieve certain quality measures, may share medical cost risk or may have other incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. Also, certain plans offer members incentives for healthy behaviors, such as smoking cessation and weight management. Members are charged periodic, prepaid premiums and generally pay co-payments, coinsurance and/or deductibles when they receive services. While the distinctions between the various types of plans have lessened over recent years, PPO, POS and CDHP products generally provide reduced benefits for out-of-network services, while traditional HMO products generally provide little to no reimbursement for non-emergency out-of-network utilization, but often offer more generous benefit coverage. An HMO plan may also require members to select one of the network primary care physicians, or PCPs, to coordinate their care and approve any specialist or other services.Economic factors, greater consumer and employer sophistication, and accountability have resulted in an increased demand for choice in both product/benefit designs and provider network configurations. As a result we continue to offer our broad access PPO networks with multiple benefit designs, but are also focused on leveraging our emerging provider collaboration initiatives with our Accountable Care Organization, or ACO, partnerships to develop both narrow and tiered network offerings. This array of network and product configurations allows both the employer and the employee to design -4-and select the combination of benefit designs (e.g., traditional PPOs, high deductibles, HRAs, HSAs, PCP based products, tiered copays) and networks (e.g., broad, narrow, tiered, closed and open) that optimize choice, quality and price at the consumer, employer and market level. We believe we are well-positioned in each of our states to respond to these market preferences.For our fully-insured products, we charge a premium and assume all of the health care risk. Under self-funded and partially-insured products, we charge a fee for services, and the employer or plan sponsor reimburses us for all or most of the health care costs. In addition, we charge a premium to provide administrative services to Large Group and National Account employers that maintain self-funded health plans and we underwrite stop loss insurance for self-funded plans.Our medical membership includes seven different customer types: Local Group, Individual, National Accounts, BlueCard®, Medicare, Medicaid and FEP. BCBS-branded business generally refers to members in our service areas licensed by the BCBSA. Non-BCBS-branded business refers to members in our non-BCBS-branded Amerigroup, CareMore and Simply Healthcare plans, as well as HealthLink and UniCare members. In addition to the above medical membership, we also serve customers who purchase one or more of our other products or services that are often ancillary to our health business.Our products are generally developed and marketed with an emphasis on the differing needs of our customers. In particular, our product development and marketing efforts take into account the differing characteristics between the various customers served by us, as well as the unique needs of educational and public entities, labor groups, federal employee health and benefit programs, national employers and state-run programs servicing low-income, high-risk and under-served markets. Each business unit is responsible for product design, pricing, enrolling, underwriting and servicing customers in specific customer types. Overall, we seek to establish pricing and product designs to provide value for our customers while achieving an appropriate level of profitability for each of our customer categories balanced with the competitive objective to grow market share. We believe that one of the keys to our success has been our focus on these distinct customer types, which better enables us to develop benefit plans and services that meet our customers’ unique needs.We market our products through direct marketing activities and an extensive network of independent agents, brokers and retail partnerships for Individual and Medicare customers, and for certain Local Group customers with a smaller employee base. Products for National Accounts and Local Group customers with a larger employee base are generally sold through independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer and working with industry specialists from our in-house sales force. In the Individual and Small Group markets, we offer on-exchange products through state or federally facilitated marketplaces, referred to as public exchanges, and off-exchange products. Federal premium subsidies are available only for certain members who purchase certain public exchange products.  Being a member of the BCBS companies, of which there were 36 independent primary licensees as of December 31, 2015, creates significant market advantages, especially when competing for very large multi-state employer groups. For example, each BCBS member company is able to take advantage of other BCBS licensees’ substantial provider networks and discounts when any BCBS member works or travels outside of the state in which their policy is written. This program is referred to as BlueCard® and is a source of revenue when we provide member services in the states where we are the BCBS licensee to individuals who are customers of BCBS plans not affiliated with us. This program also provides a national provider network for our members when they travel to other states.For additional information describing each of our customer types, detailed marketing efforts and changes in medical membership over the last three years, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Our results of operations depend in large part on accurately predicting health care costs and our ability to manage future health care costs through adequate product pricing, medical management, product design and negotiation of favorable provider contracts.Advances in medical technology, increases in specialty drug costs, the aging of the population and other demographic characteristics continue to contribute to rising health care costs. Our managed care plans and products are designed to encourage providers and members to participate in quality, cost-effective health benefit programs by using the full range of our innovative medical management services, quality initiatives and financial incentives. Our significant market share and -5-high business retention rates enable us to realize the long-term benefits of investing in preventive and early detection programs. Our ability to provide cost-effective health benefits products and services is enhanced through a disciplined approach to internal cost containment, prudent management of our risk exposure and successful integration of acquired businesses. In addition, our ability to manage selling, general and administrative costs continues to be a driver of our overall profitability.Our future results of operations will also be impacted by certain external forces and resulting changes in our business model and strategy. In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, as well as the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively, Health Care Reform, became law, causing significant changes to the U.S. health care system. Since then, significant regulations have been enacted by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, the Department of Labor and the Department of the Treasury. The legislation and regulations are far-reaching and are intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over time by mandating that most individuals obtain health insurance coverage, increasing the eligibility thresholds for most state Medicaid programs and providing certain other individuals and small businesses with tax credits to subsidize a portion of the cost of health insurance coverage. As a result of the complexity of the law, its impact on health care in the United States and the continuing modification and interpretation of Health Care Reform rules, we continue to analyze and refine our estimates of the ultimate impact of Health Care Reform on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Health Care Reform presents us with new growth opportunities, but also introduces new risks, regulatory challenges and uncertainties, and required changes in the way products are designed, underwritten, priced, distributed and administered. For additional discussion, see “Regulation,” herein and Part I,  “Risk Factors” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Private exchanges have gained visibility in the marketplace based on the promise of helping employers reduce costs, increase consumer engagement and manage the complexities created by the ACA and other market forces. While private exchanges have been a distribution channel in the Medicare and Individual markets for some time, the heightened level of activity and investment among the consulting and broker communities and other health insurance carriers has generated an increasing level of interest among employers in the Commercial market. To date, adoption levels have been lower than analyst predictions. While the ultimate volume, pace of growth and winning business models remain highly uncertain, we believe private exchanges will provide opportunities for growth.  Our approach to the private exchange market has been broad-based and we believe we are well-positioned to adapt with the market as it evolves. In 2011, we jointly acquired Bloom Health with Health Care Service Corporation and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, and today it offers an advanced consumer experience platform to employers as Anthem Health Marketplace. We also currently participate in four large national consultant-led exchanges, several regional broker-led exchanges and various individual, commercial and Medicare exchanges. We will continue to assess this highly dynamic market, build out internal capabilities and enhance partnerships to ensure we are best positioned to capitalize on future growth. We continue to believe health care is local and that we have the strong local presence required to understand and meet local customer needs. We believe we are well-positioned to deliver what customers want: innovative, choice-based and affordable products; distinctive service; simplified transactions; and better access to information for quality care. Our local presence, combined with our national expertise, has created opportunities for collaborative programs that reward physicians and hospitals for clinical quality and excellence. We feel that our commitment to health improvement and care management provides added value to customers and health care professionals. We believe that an essential ingredient for practical and sustainable improvements in health care is raising health care quality while managing costs for total cost affordability. We -6-have identified initiatives that we believe will deliver better health care while reducing costs. These include driving innovation in paying and partnering with providers to compel improved cost, quality and health along with finding new, effective ways to manage risk and engage the member as a consumer. In addition, we seek to achieve efficiencies from our national scale while optimizing service performance for our customers. Finally, we seek to continue to rationalize our portfolio of businesses and products, and align our investments to capitalize on new opportunities to drive growth in both our existing and new markets in the future.We continue to enhance interactions with customers, providers, brokers, agents, employees and other stakeholders through web-enabled technology and improving internal operations. Our approach includes not only sales and distribution of health benefits products on the Internet, but also implementation of advanced capabilities that improve services benefiting customers, agents, brokers, and providers while optimizing administrative costs. These enhancements can also help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care through increased communications between patients and their physicians.We intend to continue pursuing our vision of becoming America's valued health partner by transforming health care with trusted and caring solutions and by delivering quality products and services that give members access to the care they need. At the same time, we will focus on earnings per share, or EPS, growth through organic membership gains, improvements in our operating cost structure, strategic acquisitions and the efficient use of capital.Significant TransactionsWhile Health Care Reform has caused significant changes to the U.S. health care system in recent years, the more significant transactions that have occurred over the last five years that have impacted or will impact our capital structure or that have or will influence how we conduct our business operations include:•Pending acquisition of Cigna expected to close in the second half of 2016;•Acquisition of Simply Healthcare (2015);•Use of Capital—Board of Directors declaration of dividends on common stock (2011 through February 2016) and an increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.6500 per share (February 2016); authorization for repurchases of our common stock (2015 and prior); and debt repurchases and new debt issuance (2015 and prior);•Acquisition of Amerigroup and the related debt issuance (2012);•Acquisition of 1-800 CONTACTS (2012) and subsequent divestiture (2014); and •Acquisition of CareMore (2011).For additional information regarding certain of these transactions, see Note 3, “Business Acquisitions and Divestiture,” Note 12, “Debt,” and Note 14, “Capital Stock,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.CompetitionThe managed care industry is highly competitive, both nationally and in our local markets. Competition continues to be intense due to aggressive marketing and pricing, business consolidations, a proliferation of new products, the impact of Health Care Reform, and increased quality awareness and price sensitivity among customers.We believe that participants in the managed care industry compete for customers based on quality of service, price, access to provider networks, access to care management and wellness programs (including health information), innovation, breadth and flexibility of products and benefits, reputation (including National Committee on Quality Assurance, or NCQA, accreditation status), brand recognition and financial stability. Our ability to attract and retain customers is substantially tied to our ability to distinguish ourselves from our competitors in these areas.Also, a health plan’s ability to interact with employers, members and other third parties (including health care professionals) via the Internet has become a more important competitive factor, and we have made significant investments in technology to enhance our electronic interaction with providers, employers, members and third parties.-7-We believe our exclusive right to market products under the most recognized brand in the industry, BCBS, in our most significant markets provides us with an advantage over our competition. Our provider networks in our markets enable us to achieve efficiencies and distinctive service levels enabling us to offer a broad range of health benefits to our customers on a more cost-effective basis than many of our competitors. We strive to distinguish our products through provider access, service, care management, product value and brand recognition.Pricing in our Commercial and Specialty Business segment (defined below), including our Individual and Small Group lines of business, remains competitive and we strive to price our health care benefit products consistent with anticipated underlying medical trends. We believe our pricing strategy, based on predictive modeling, proprietary research and data-driven processes, as well as our overall investments for Health Care Reform, have positioned us to benefit from the potential growth opportunities available in fully-insured commercial products as a result of Health Care Reform. The public exchanges have increased the risk that our products will be selected by individuals who have a higher risk profile or utilization rate than the pool of participants we anticipated when we established the pricing for these public exchange products. We believe that our pricing strategy, brand name and network quality will provide a strong foundation for commercial risk membership growth opportunities in the future.  To build our provider networks, we compete with other health benefits plans for the best contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers. We believe that physicians and other providers primarily consider member volume, reimbursement rates, timeliness of reimbursement and administrative service capabilities along with the reduction of non-value added administrative tasks when deciding whether to contract with a health benefits plan.At the sales and distribution level, we compete for qualified agents and brokers to recommend and distribute our products. Strong competition exists among insurance companies and health benefits plans for agents and brokers with demonstrated ability to secure new business and maintain existing accounts. We believe that the quality and price of our products, support services, reputation and prior relationships, along with a reasonable commission structure are the factors agents and brokers consider in choosing whether to market our products. We believe that we have good relationships with our agents and brokers, and that our products, support services and commission structure compare favorably to those of our competitors in all of our markets. Typically, we are the largest competitor in each of our Blue-branded markets and, thus, are a closely watched target by other insurance competitors.Reportable SegmentsWe manage our operations through three reportable segments: Commercial and Specialty Business, Government Business and Other. We regularly evaluate the appropriateness of our reportable segments, particularly in light of organizational changes, merger and acquisition activity and changing laws and regulations. Therefore, these reportable segments may change in the future. Our Commercial and Specialty Business and Government Business segments both offer a diversified mix of managed care products, including PPOs, HMOs, traditional indemnity benefits and POS plans, as well as a variety of hybrid benefit plans including CDHPs, hospital only and limited benefit products.Our Commercial and Specialty Business segment includes our Local Group, National Accounts, Individual and Specialty businesses. Business units in the Commercial and Specialty Business segment offer fully-insured health products; provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services; and provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal health care guidance.Our Government Business segment includes Medicare and Medicaid businesses, National Government Services, or NGS, and services provided to the federal government in connection with FEP. Medicare business includes services such as Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, and Medicare Supplement. Medicaid business includes our managed care alternatives through publicly funded health care programs, including Medicaid; Temporary Assistance for Needy Family programs, or TANF; programs for seniors and people with disabilities, or SPD; programs for long-term services and support, or LTSS; Children’s Health Insurance Programs, or CHIP; and ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs. NGS acts as a Medicare contractor for the federal government in several regions across the nation. -8-Our Other segment includes other businesses that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for an operating segment as defined by Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance, as well as corporate expenses not allocated to the other reportable segments.Through our participation in various federal government programs, we generated approximately 18.8%, 21.0% and 20.3% of our total consolidated revenues from agencies of the U.S. government for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These revenues are contained in the Government Business segment. An immaterial amount of our total consolidated revenues is derived from activities outside of the U.S. For additional information regarding the operating results of our segments, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 19, “Segment Information,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Products and ServicesA general description of our products and services is provided below:Preferred Provider Organization:    PPO products offer the member an option to select any health care provider, with benefits reimbursed by us at a higher level when care is received from a participating network provider. Coverage is subject to co-payments or deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums.Consumer-Driven Health Plans:    CDHPs provide consumers with increased financial responsibility, choice and control regarding how their health care dollars are spent. Generally, CDHPs combine a high-deductible PPO plan with an employer-funded and/or employee-funded personal care account, which may result in tax benefits to the employee. Some or all of the dollars remaining in the personal care account at year-end can be rolled over to the next year for future health care needs.Traditional Indemnity:    Indemnity products offer the member an option to select any health care provider for covered services. Coverage is subject to deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums.Health Maintenance Organization:    HMO products include comprehensive managed care benefits, generally through a participating network of physicians, hospitals and other providers. A member in one of our HMOs must typically select a PCP from our network. PCPs generally are family practitioners, internists or pediatricians who provide necessary preventive and primary medical care, and are generally responsible for coordinating other necessary health care services. We offer HMO plans with varying levels of co-payments, which result in different levels of premium rates. Point-of-Service:    POS products blend the characteristics of HMO, PPO and indemnity plans. Members can have comprehensive HMO-style benefits through participating network providers with minimum out-of-pocket expenses (co-payments) and also can go directly, without a referral, to any provider they choose, subject to, among other things, certain deductibles and coinsurance. Member cost sharing is limited by out-of-pocket maximums.ACA Public Exchange and Off-Exchange Products:    The ACA required the modification of existing products and development of new products to meet the requirements of the legislation, subject to certain transitional relief. Individual and Small Group products cover essential health benefits as defined in the ACA along with many other requirements and cost sharing features. Individual and Small Group products offered on and off the public exchanges meet the definition of the “metal” product requirements (bronze, silver, gold and platinum) and each metal product must satisfy a specific actuarial value. Health insurers participating on the public exchanges must offer at least one silver and one gold product. In our Individual markets we offer bronze, silver and gold products, both on and off the public exchanges, in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Virginia and Wisconsin. Additionally, we offer platinum products, both on and off the public exchanges, in California and New York. In our Small Group markets, we offer bronze, silver and gold products, off the public exchanges, in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio, Virginia and Wisconsin. We offer bronze, silver and gold products, on the public exchanges, in Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri, New Hampshire, Ohio and Virginia. Additionally, we offer platinum products, off the public exchanges, in California, Connecticut, Georgia, Kentucky, Maine, Nevada and Virginia. -9-Administrative Services:    In addition to fully-insured products, we provide administrative services to Large Group employers that maintain self-funded health plans. These administrative services include underwriting, actuarial services, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs, claims processing and other administrative services for self-funded employers. Self-funded health plans are also able to use our provider networks and to realize savings through our negotiated provider arrangements, while allowing employers the ability to design certain health benefit plans in accordance with their own requirements and objectives. We also underwrite stop loss insurance for self-funded plans. BlueCard®:    BlueCard® is a national program that links participating health care providers and independent BCBS plans. BlueCard® host members are generally members who reside in or travel to a state in which an Anthem subsidiary is the Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield licensee and who are covered under an employer sponsored health plan serviced by a non-Anthem controlled BCBS licensee, which is the “home” plan. We perform certain administrative functions for BlueCard® host members, for which we receive administrative fees from the BlueCard® members’ home plans. Other administrative functions, including maintenance of enrollment information and customer service, are performed by the home plan. Medicare Plans:    We offer a wide variety of plans, products and options to individuals age 65 and older such as Medicare supplement plans; Medicare Advantage, including special needs plans; Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans, or Medicare Part D; and Medicare-Medicaid Plans, or MMPs. Medicare supplement plans typically pay the difference between health care costs incurred by a beneficiary and amounts paid by Medicare. Medicare Advantage plans provide Medicare beneficiaries with a managed care alternative to traditional Medicare and often include a Medicare Part D benefit. In addition, our Medicare Advantage special needs plans provide tailored benefits to Medicare beneficiaries who have chronic diseases and also cover certain dual eligible customers, who are low-income seniors and persons under age 65 with disabilities. Medicare Part D offers a prescription drug plan to Medicare and MMP beneficiaries. MMP is a demonstration program focused on serving members who are dually eligible for Medicaid and Medicare, which was established as a result of the passage of the ACA. We offer these plans to customers through our health benefit subsidiaries throughout the country, including Amerigroup, CareMore and Simply Healthcare. Individual Plans:    We offer a full range of health insurance plans with a variety of options and deductibles for individuals under age 65 who are not covered by employer-sponsored coverage and are not otherwise eligible for government sponsored plans, such as Medicare and/or Medicaid. Some of our products target certain demographic populations such as uninsured younger individuals between the ages of 19 and 29, families, those transitioning between jobs or early retirees. Individual policies are generally sold through independent agents and brokers, retail partnerships, our in-house sales force or via the Internet. Individual business is sold on a fully-insured basis. We offer public exchange products and off-exchange products. Federal premium subsidies are available only for certain public exchange products. Individual customers are generally more sensitive to product pricing and, to a lesser extent, the configuration of the network, and the efficiency of administration. Medicaid Plans and Other State-Sponsored Programs:    We have contracts to serve members enrolled in publicly funded health care programs, including Medicaid, TANF, SPD, LTSS, CHIP, and ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs. The Medicaid program makes federal matching funds available to all states for the delivery of health care benefits for low income and/or high medical risk individuals. These programs are managed by the individual states based on broad federal guidelines. TANF is a state and federally funded program designed for the population consisting primarily of low-income children and their guardians. SPD is a federal income supplement program designed for Supplemental Security Income recipients, however, states can broaden eligibility criteria. This population consists of low-income seniors and people with disabilities. LTSS is a state and federally funded program that offers states a broad and flexible set of program design options and refers to the delivery of long-term services and support for our members who receive home and community- or institution-based services for long-term care. CHIP is a state and federally funded program that provides health care coverage to children not otherwise covered by Medicaid or other insurance programs. Our Medicaid plans also cover certain dual eligible customers, as previously described above, who also receive Medicare benefits. We provide Medicaid and other State-Sponsored services in California, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia and Wisconsin.  Pharmacy Products:    We market and sell an integrated prescription drug product to both fully-insured and self-funded customers through our health benefit subsidiaries throughout the country. This comprehensive product includes features such as drug formularies, a pharmacy network and maintenance of a prescription drug database and mail order capabilities. Since December 1, 2009, we have delegated certain functions and administrative services related to our integrated prescription drug -10-products to Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, under a ten year contract, excluding our CareMore and Simply Healthcare subsidiaries and certain self-insured members which have exclusive agreements with different pharmacy benefit management, or PBM, service providers. Express Scripts manages the network of pharmacy providers, operates mail order pharmacies and processes prescription drug claims on our behalf, while we sell and support the product for clients, make formulary decisions and set drug benefit design strategy and provide front line member support. Life Insurance:    We offer an array of competitive individual and group life insurance benefit products to both Large Group and Small Group customers in conjunction with our health plans. The life products include term life and accidental death and dismemberment. Disability:    We offer short-term and long-term disability products, usually in conjunction with our health plans. Radiology Benefit Management:    We offer outpatient diagnostic imaging management services to health plans. These services include utilization management for advanced diagnostic imaging procedures, network development and optimization, patient safety, claims adjudication and provider payment. Personal Health Care Guidance:    We offer leading evidence-based and analytics-driven personal health care guidance. These services help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care, enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs. Dental:    Our dental plans include networks in certain states in which we operate. Many of the dental benefits are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis. Our members also have access to additional dental providers through our participation in the National Dental GRID, a national dental network developed by and for BCBS plans. The National Dental GRID includes dentists in all 50 states and provides multi-state customers with a national solution providing in-network discounts across the country. Additionally, we offer managed dental services to other health care plans to assist those plans in providing dental benefits to their customers. Vision Services and Products:    Our vision plans include networks within the states in which we operate. Many of the vision benefits are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis.  Medicare Administrative Operations:    Through our subsidiary, NGS, we serve as a fiscal intermediary, carrier and Medicare administrative contractor for the federal government providing administrative services for the Medicare program, which generally provides coverage for persons who are 65 or older and for persons who are disabled or with end-stage renal disease. Part A of the Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and other health care facilities. Part B of the Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by physicians, physical and occupational therapists and other professional providers, as well as certain durable medical equipment and medical supplies. Networks and Provider RelationsOur relationships with physicians, hospitals and professionals that render health care services to our members are guided by local, regional and national standards for network development, reimbursement and contract methodologies. While following industry standards, we are simultaneously seeking to lead transformation efforts within our health care system, moving from our current fragmented model premised on episodic intervention to one based on proactive, coordinated care built around the needs of the patient. A key element of this transformation involves a transition from traditional fee-for-service payment models to models where providers are paid based on the value, both in quality and affordability, of the care they deliver. We establish “market-based” hospital reimbursement payments that we believe are fair, but aggressive, and among the most competitive in the market. We also seek to ensure that physicians in our network are paid in a timely manner at appropriate rates. In many instances, we deploy multi-year contracting strategies, including case rates or fixed rates, to limit our exposure to medical cost inflation and to increase cost predictability. We maintain both broad and narrow provider networks to ensure member choice, based on both price and access needs, while implementing programs designed to improve the quality of care our members receive. Increasingly, we are supplementing our broad based networks with smaller or more -11-cost-effective networks that are designed to be attractive to a more price-sensitive customer segment, such as public exchange customers. Our reimbursement strategies vary across markets and depend on the degree of consolidation and integration of physician groups and hospitals. Fee-for-service is currently our predominant reimbursement methodology for physicians, but as noted above, we are transitioning providers to value-based payment contracts. More traditional physician fee schedules are developed at the state level based on an assessment of several factors and conditions, including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, resource-based relative value system, or RBRVS, medical practice cost inflation and physician supply. We utilize CMS RBRVS fee schedules as a reference point for fee schedule development and analysis. The RBRVS structure was developed, maintained, and updated by CMS and is used by the Medicare program and other major payers. In addition, we have implemented and continue to expand physician incentive contracting, or “pay for performance”, which ties physician payment levels to performance on clinical measures. While we generally do not delegate full financial responsibility to our physician providers in the form of capitation-based reimbursement, there are certain markets where the market dynamics result in this being a useful method to lower costs and reduce underwriting risk, thus we do utilize this payment method in those markets. Our hospital contracts provide for a variety of reimbursement arrangements depending on local market dynamics and current hospital utilization efficiency. Most hospitals are reimbursed a fixed amount per day or reimbursed a per-case amount, per admission, for inpatient covered services. A small percentage of hospitals, primarily rural, sole community hospitals, are reimbursed on a discount from approved charge basis for covered services. Our “per-case” reimbursement methods utilize many of the same attributes contained in Medicare’s Diagnosis Related Groups, or DRG, methodology. Hospital outpatient services are reimbursed by fixed case rates, fee schedules or percent of approved charges. Our hospital contracts recognize unique hospital attributes, such as academic medical centers or community hospitals, and the volume of care performed for our members. To improve predictability of expected costs, we frequently use a multi-year contracting approach with providers. In addition, the majority of our hospital contracts include a “pay for performance” component where reimbursement levels are linked to improved clinical performance, patient safety and medical error reduction. Although fee-for-service combined with pay for performance remains our predominant payment model today, our provider engagement and contracting strategies are moving away from “unit price” or volume-based payment models to payment models that align compensation with the value delivered as measured by health care, quality and cost. We launched the most significant of these efforts, our Enhanced Personal Health Care program, in the fourth quarter of 2012. This program augments traditional fee-for-service with shared savings opportunities for providers when actual health care costs are below projected costs, and providers meet specific quality measures. The quality measures are based on nationally accepted, credible standards (e.g. NCQA, the American Diabetes Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics) and span preventive, acute and chronic care. We understand, however, that payment incentives alone are insufficient to create the large-scale, system-wide transformation required to achieve meaningful impacts on cost, quality and member experience. Accordingly, we invested in care delivery transformation and population health management support structures to help providers succeed under value-based payment models. This support includes our web-based population health management technology and teams of dedicated expert consultants who work alongside providers, sharing best practices, and helping them leverage our data to the benefit of their patients. In some of these arrangements, participating physician practices receive a per-member, per-month clinical coordination fee to compensate them for important care management activities that occur outside of the patient visit (e.g. purchasing an electronic health record or hiring care management nurses), all of which have been shown to reduce healthcare costs and improve care outcomes. Since the launch of Enhanced Personal Health Care, we now have arrangements with provider organizations covering 48% of our PCPs and have rolled this program out in each of the fourteen states where we operate as a licensee of the BCBSA.Medical Management ProgramsOur medical management programs include a broad array of activities that facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our members and promote cost-effective medical care. These medical management activities and programs are administered and directed by physicians and nurses. The goals of our medical management strategies are to ensure that the care delivered to our members is supported by appropriate medical and scientific evidence, is received on a timely basis and occurs in the most appropriate location.-12-Precertification:    A traditional medical management program involves assessment of the appropriateness of certain hospitalizations and other medical services prior to the services being rendered. For example, precertification is used to determine whether a set of hospital and medical services is being appropriately applied to the member’s clinical condition, in accordance with criteria for medical necessity as that term is defined in the member’s benefits contract. All of our health plans have implemented precertification programs for common high-tech radiology studies, including cardiac diagnostic testing, addressing an area of historically significant cost trends. Through our AIM Specialty Health, or AIM, subsidiary we promote appropriate, safe and affordable member care in imaging as well as oncology, sleep management and specialty pharmacy benefits. These expanded specialty benefit management solutions leverage clinical expertise and technology to engage our provider communities and members in more effective and efficient use of outpatient services.Care Coordination:    Another traditional medical management strategy we use is care coordination, which is based on nationally recognized criteria developed by third-party medical specialists. With inpatient care coordination, the requirements and intensity of services during a patient’s hospital stay are reviewed, at times by an onsite skilled nurse professional in collaboration with the hospital’s medical and nursing staff, in order to coordinate care and determine the most effective transition of care from the hospital setting. In addition, guidance for many continued stay cases is reviewed with physician medical directors to ensure appropriate utilization of medical services. We also coordinate care for outpatient services to help ensure that patients with chronic conditions who receive care from multiple physicians are able to manage the exchange of information between physicians and coordinate office visits to their physicians.Case Management:    We have implemented a medical management strategy focused on identifying the small percentage of the membership that will require a high level of intervention to manage their health care needs. The registered nurses and medical directors focus on members likely to be readmitted to the hospital and help them coordinate their care through pharmacy compliance, post-hospital care, follow-up visits to see their physician and support in their home.Formulary management:    We have developed formularies, which are selections of drugs based on clinical quality and effectiveness. A pharmacy and therapeutics committee of physicians uses scientific and clinical evidence to ensure that our members have access to the appropriate drug therapies. Medical policy:    A medical policy group, comprised of physician leaders from various areas of the country, working in cooperation with academic medical centers, practicing community physicians and medical specialty organizations such as the American College of Radiology and national organizations such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Cancer Society, determines our national policy for the application of new medical technologies and treatments.Quality programs:    We are actively engaged with our hospital and physician networks to enable them to improve medical and surgical care and achieve better outcomes for our members. We endorse, encourage and incentivize hospitals and physicians to support national initiatives to improve the quality of clinical care and patient outcomes and to reduce medication errors and hospital infections. We have demonstrated our leadership in developing hospital quality programs.External review procedures:    We work with outside experts through a process of external review to provide our members scientifically and clinically, evidence-based medical care. When we receive member concerns, we have formal appeals procedures that ultimately allow coverage disputes related to medical necessity decisions under the benefits contract to be settled by independent expert physicians.Service management:    In HMO and POS networks, PCPs serve as the overall coordinators of members’ health care needs by providing an array of preventive health services and overseeing referrals to specialists for appropriate medical care. In PPO networks, patients have access to network physicians without a PCP serving as the coordinator of care. Provider Cost Comparison Tools:    Through Estimate Your Cost, Anthem Care Comparison and other tools, our members can compare cost estimates and quality data for common services at contracted providers, with cost estimates accounting for facility, professional and ancillary services. These cost estimates bundle related services typically performed at the time of the procedure, not just for the procedure itself. Users can review cost data for over 400 procedures in 49 states. Members can also estimate out-of-pocket costs based on a member’s own benefit coverage, deductible, and out of pocket maximum. We also offer information on overall facility ratings and patient experience using trusted third party data. We continue to work on enhancing and evolving our tools to assist members in making informed and value-based health care decisions. In addition, we collaborate with an external independent vendor to support employers wanting to purchase a transparency and consumer engagement web solution with certain additional functionality.-13-Personal Health Care Guidance:    These services help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care, enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs. Examples of services include member and physician messaging, providing access to evidence-based medical guidelines, physician quality profiling, and other consulting services.Anthem Health Guide:    Anthem Health Guide integrates customer service with clinical and wellness coaching to provide easier navigation of health care services for our members. Members are supported by a team of nurses, coaches, educators, and social workers using voice, click-to-chat, secure email and mobile technology. Our Smart Engagement Platform supports this integrated team using our smart engagement triggers for speech recognition, preventative and clinical gaps in care and highlighting when we have members who are identified for current health care support. Care Management ProgramsWe continue to expand our 360º Health suite of integrated care management programs and tools. 360º Health offers the following programs, among others, that have been proven to increase quality and reduce medical costs for our members:ConditionCare and FutureMoms are care management and maternity management programs that serve as adjuncts to physician care. Skilled nurse professionals with added support from our team of dietitians, social workers, pharmacists, health educators and other health professionals help participants understand their condition, their doctor’s orders and how to become a better self-manager of their condition. We also offer members infertility consultation through our SpecialOffers@Anthem program, a comprehensive and integrated assembly of discounted health and wellness products and services from a variety of the nation's leading retailers.24/7 NurseLine offers access to qualified, registered nurses anytime. This allows our members to make informed decisions about the appropriate level of care and avoid unnecessary worry. This program also includes a referral process to the nearest urgent care facility, a robust audiotape library, accessible by phone, with more than 600 health and wellness topics, as well as on-line health education topics designed to educate members about symptoms and treatment of many common health concerns.ComplexCare is an advanced care management program that reaches out to participants with multiple health care issues who are at risk for frequent and high levels of medical care in order to offer support and assistance in managing their health care needs. ComplexCare identifies candidates through claims analysis using predictive modeling techniques, the use of health risk assessment data, utilization management reports and referrals from a physician or one of our other programs, such as the 24/7 NurseLine.MyHealth Advantage utilizes integrated information systems and sophisticated data analytics to help our members improve their compliance with evidence-based care guidelines, providing personal care notes that alert members to potential gaps in care, enable more prudent health care choices, and assist in the realization of member out-of-pocket cost savings. Key opportunities are also shared with physicians through Availity® at the time of membership eligibility verification. Availity® is an electronic data interchange system that allows for the exchange of health information among providers over a secure network.MyHealth Coach provides our members with a professional guide who helps them navigate the health care system and make better decisions about their well-being. MyHealth Coach proactively reaches out to people who are at risk for serious health issues or have complex health care needs. Our health coaches help participants understand and manage chronic conditions, handle any health and wellness related services they need and make smart lifestyle choices.HealthyLifestyles helps employees transform unhealthy habits into positive ones by focusing on behaviors that can have a positive effect on their health and their employer’s financial well-being. HealthyLifestyles programs include smoking cessation, weight management, stress management, physical activity, and diet and nutrition.MyHealth@Anthem is our secure web-based solution, complementing other programs by reinforcing telephonic coaching and mail campaigns. The website engages participants in regularly assessing their health status, gives them feedback about their progress, and tracks important health measures such as blood pressure, weight and blood glucose levels.-14-Behavioral Health Case Management provides oversight of the delivery of mental health and substance abuse services as an integrated component of the health plan. The program assists providers and members with referrals, transitional care, episodic emergency care and other needs. Autism Spectrum Disorder is a specialized case management program staffed by a dedicated team of clinicians who have been trained on the unique challenges and needs of families with a member who has a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder. These clinicians provide education, information on community resources to help with care and support, guidance on the appropriate usage of benefits, and assistance in exploring effective treatments, such as medical services, that may help the member and their families.Employee Assistance Programs provide many resources that allow members to balance work and personal life by providing quick and easy access to confidential resources to help meet the challenges of daily life. Examples of services available in person as well as via telephone or internet are counseling for child care, health and wellness, financial issues, legal issues, adoption and daily living.Health Care Quality InitiativesIncreasingly, the health care industry is able to define quality health care based on preventive health measurements, outcomes of care and optimal care management for chronic disease. A key to our success has been our ability to work with our network physicians and hospitals to improve the quality and outcomes of the health care services provided to our members. Our ability to promote quality medical care has been recognized by the NCQA, the largest and most respected national accreditation program for managed care health plans.Several quality health care measures, including the Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set, or HEDIS®, have been incorporated into the NCQA’s accreditation processes. HEDIS® measures range from preventive services, such as screening mammography and pediatric immunization, to elements of care, including decreasing the complications of diabetes and improving treatment for patients with heart disease. For health plans, NCQA’s highest accreditation status of Excellent is granted only to those plans that demonstrate levels of service and clinical quality that meet or exceed NCQA’s rigorous requirements for consumer protection and quality improvement. Plans earning this accreditation level must also achieve HEDIS® results that are in the highest range of national or regional performance. Details for each of our plans’ accreditation levels can be found at www.ncqa.org.We have created an innovative program called the State Health Index, or SHI, to quantify and track our success in improving the health of our communities. SHI presents a comprehensive picture of a community’s health in the 24 states served by our affiliated health plans. It is compiled from public data and includes 14 health indicators in four domains: Maternity Care, Preventive Care, Lifestyle, and Morbidity/Mortality. The metrics are utilized to identify opportunities for health improvement and leverage our strengths to build partnerships with community coalitions, patient advocacy organizations, and local and state public health departments. We analyze states' performance measures and prioritize measures for focused improvement. Together with Anthem Foundation, Inc. and state leadership, we create or enhance programs to improve the health of the entire population in these states - not just for our members.Our wholly-owned health outcomes research subsidiary, HealthCore, Inc., or HealthCore, generates consistent and actionable evidence to support decision making while helping to guide fresh initiatives for a range of stakeholders in the healthcare industry. By leveraging a rich array of medical and pharmacy utilization data queried from administrative claims, patients surveys, medical charts and laboratory diagnostics, among other health records, HealthCore’s multi-disciplinary research teams uncover a broad spectrum of safety, effectiveness, pharmacoepidemiology, and health economics evidence. HealthCore’s real world evidence and comparative effectiveness research, among others, have played roles in the product planning and development campaigns of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, and today it lists most of the leading biologics and drug manufacturers as clients or alliance partners. Its health plan research has led to better insights into evidence-based treatment approaches, the development of value-based initiatives to drive access and adherence to treatment, and the crafting of incentives to modify patient and provider behavior. One of HealthCore’s predominant initiatives is its governmental and academic collaborations that include cooperation with some of the country’s top universities and federal agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration and the Centers of Disease Control of the National Institutes of Health, and it is an active contributor to the safety surveillance Sentinel program. As a notable contributor to the health outcomes -15-evidence base, HealthCore’s research findings are broadly disseminated during presentations at national and international medical meetings and are published in a variety of respected peer-reviewed medical and health services journals.Our AIM subsidiary supports quality by implementing clinical appropriateness and patient safety solutions for advanced imaging procedures, cardiology, sleep medicine, specialty pharmaceuticals and oncology, including drugs covered under medical benefit and radiation therapy. These programs, based on widely accepted and evidence based clinical guidelines, promote the most appropriate use of diagnostic and therapeutic services to improve the quality of overall health care delivered to our members and members of other health plans that are covered under AIM’s programs. To provide additional impact to its clinical appropriateness program, AIM has also implemented a provider assessment program, OptiNet®, which promotes more informed selection of diagnostic imaging and testing facilities by providing cost and facility information to physician offices at the point that a procedure is ordered. We have also leveraged AIM’s provider network assessment information to proactively engage and educate our members about imaging providers and sleep testing choices based on site capabilities and cost differences. This program is another example of how we facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our members and promote cost effective medical care. Our wholly-owned analytics-driven subsidiary, Resolution Health, Inc., or RHI, delivers programs to improve the safety, quality and coordination of health care for our members. RHI uses evidence-based proprietary rules and algorithms based on established clinical guidelines and standards of independent accreditation organizations, medical specialty societies, and government agencies such as the National Quality Forum, or NQF, and NCQA. RHI analyzes claims and other data to identify actions that can improve health outcomes at the individual member level. When appropriate, RHI delivers personalized confidential messages, or Personalized Health Insights, to members, providers and care managers. RHI’s Personalized Health Insights support total population health management and the results of RHI analyses are used across our enterprise to support HEDIS and other clinical quality measures.Pricing and Underwriting of Our ProductsWe price our products based on our assessment of current health care claim costs and emerging health care cost trends, combined with charges for administrative expenses, risk and profit, including charges for ACA taxes and fees. We continually review our product designs and pricing guidelines on a national and regional basis so that our products remain competitive and consistent with our profitability goals and strategies.In applying our pricing to each employer group and customer, we maintain consistent, competitive, disciplined underwriting standards. We employ our proprietary accumulated actuarial data in determining underwriting and pricing parameters. Where allowed by law and regulation, we underwrite large groups based on each group’s aggregate claim experience. Also, we employ credit underwriting procedures with respect to our self-funded products.In most circumstances, our pricing and underwriting decisions follow a prospective rating process in which a fixed premium is determined at the beginning of the contract period. For fully-insured business, any deviation, favorable or unfavorable, from the medical costs assumed in determining the premium is our responsibility. Some of our larger groups employ retrospective rating reviews, where positive experience is partially refunded to the group, and negative experience is charged against a rate stabilization fund established from the group’s favorable experience, or charged against future favorable experience.BCBSA LicensesWe are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA that entitle us to the exclusive, and in certain areas, non-exclusive use of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in assigned geographic territories. BCBSA is a national trade association of Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensees, the primary function of which is to promote and preserve the integrity of the BCBS names and marks, as well as provide certain coordination among the member companies. Each BCBSA licensee is an independent legal organization and is not responsible for obligations of other BCBSA member organizations. We have no right to market products and services using the BCBS names and marks outside of the states in which we are licensed to sell BCBS products. We are required to pay an annual license fee to the BCBSA based on enrollment and also to comply with various operational, governance and financial standards set forth in the licenses.We believe that we and our licensed affiliates are currently in compliance with these standards. The standards under the license agreements may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA. See Part I,  “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act The ACA has created significant changes and will continue to create significant changes for health insurance markets for the next several years. Specifically, many of the near-term changes were effective for certain groups and individuals in 2010, including a prohibition on lifetime limits, certain annual limits, member cost-sharing on specified preventive benefits, pre-existing condition exclusions for children, increased restrictions on rescinding coverage and extension of coverage of dependents to the age of 26. Certain requirements for insurers were also effective in 2011, including changes to Medicare Advantage payments and the minimum medical loss ratio, or MLR, provision that requires insurers to pay rebates to customers when insurers do not meet or exceed the specified MLR thresholds. Most of the provisions of the ACA with more significant effects on the health insurance marketplace, both state and federal, went into effect on January 1, 2014, including a requirement that insurers guarantee the issuance of coverage to all individuals regardless of health status, strict rules on how -17-health insurance is rated, the assessment of new taxes and fees (including annual fees on health insurance companies), the creation of public exchanges for Individuals and Small Groups, the availability of premium subsidies for certain Individual products, and substantial expansions in eligibility for Medicaid.Despite significant preparation for the advent of the public exchanges, there have been many technical difficulties in their implementation, which entail uncertainties associated with mix and volume of business. In addition, CMS has issued transitional policies modifying or extending the deadlines for compliance with certain aspects of Health Care Reform. In March 2014, CMS issued transition relief providing that health insurance coverage in the Individual or Small Group markets that is renewed for a policy year beginning on or before October 1, 2016 that would otherwise have been deemed non-compliant with certain market reforms under Health Care Reform, will not be considered by CMS to be out of compliance with respect to such market reforms, provided certain conditions are met. Some states have adopted these transitional policies, some have not and others have not taken a position. Due to the impact of the transitional policies, insurers in the ACA compliant Individual market, including Anthem, may be adversely selected by individuals who will have a higher acuity level than the anticipated pool of participants in the public exchange markets. In addition, the risk adjustment, reinsurance, and risk corridor premium stabilization programs of Health Care Reform, or Health Care Reform Premium Stabilization Programs, established to apportion risk amongst insurers, may not be effective in appropriately mitigating the financial risks related to our public exchange products. These factors, along with the limited information about the individuals who have access to these newly established public exchanges that was available when we established premiums, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. Any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions utilized in setting adequate premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.In addition, there have been other material changes and delays in the implementation of the ACA that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. These include:•Proposed network adequacy standards;•Reduction in the amount available for payments under the risk corridor program; •Change in Small Group size expansion;•Increasingly complex and detailed regulation; and •Other unanticipated regulatory changes and delays.  These delays and changes may have a material and significant impact on anticipated enrollment in public exchange and off-exchange products, thus affecting the risk pools and premium rates. Finally, implementation of the ACA brings with it significant oversight responsibilities by health insurers that may result in increased governmental audits, increased assertions of False Claims Act violations, and an increased risk of other litigation.  The ACA continues to require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by HHS, the Department of Labor, CMS and the Department of the Treasury. These regulatory agencies continue to consider recommendations from external groups, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC. Many provisions have final rules available for review while some proposed regulations have been released for comment or have yet to be released and others are in-process. We continue to carefully evaluate each rule as it is issued. Some of the more significant considerations of the ACA are described below:•MLR regulations were issued by HHS in December 2011. The minimum MLR thresholds by line of business, as defined by HHS, are as follows:Line of Business %Large Group 85Small Group 80Individual 80-18-New York state regulations require us to meet a more restrictive MLR threshold of 82% for both Small Group and Individual lines of business. The minimum MLR thresholds disclosed above are based on definitions of an MLR calculation provided by HHS, or specific states, as applicable, and differ from our calculation of “benefit expense ratio” based on premium revenue and benefit expense as reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Furthermore, the definitions of the lines of business differ under the various state and federal regulations and may not correspond to our lines of business. Definitions under the MLR regulation also impact insurers differently depending upon their organizational structure or tax status, which could result in a competitive advantage to some insurance providers that may not be available to us, resulting in an uneven playing field in the industry. Significant changes to the MLR requirements may occur through additional regulatory action by HHS. Health Care Reform also imposed a separate minimum MLR threshold of 85% for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans beginning in 2014. Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plans that do not meet this threshold will have to pay a minimum MLR rebate. If a plan’s MLR is below 85% for three consecutive years beginning with 2014, enrollment will be restricted. A Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plan contract will be terminated if the plan's MLR is below 85% for five consecutive years.  Approximately 86.8% and 36.0% of our premium revenue and medical membership, respectively, were subject to the minimum MLR regulations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015. Approximately 67.0% and 32.2% of our premium revenue and medical membership, respectively, were subject to the minimum MLR regulations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2014. •The ACA required states to establish public exchanges by January 1, 2014 through which qualified individuals and qualified small employers may access coverage. If a state failed to establish a public exchange, the federal government established a public exchange in that state. To date sixteen states plus the District of Columbia have elected to operate state-based public exchanges. The remaining states have either a federal partnership public exchange (six states) or a federally operated public exchange (twenty-eight states). In the states in which we offer products on public exchanges, six states have passed legislation or executive orders establishing state-based public exchanges (California, Colorado, Connecticut, Kentucky, Nevada and New York).•The ACA required the modification of existing products and development of new products to meet the requirements of the legislation, subject to certain transitional relief. Individual and Small Group products must cover essential health benefits as defined in the ACA along with many other requirements and cost sharing features. Individual and Small Group products must meet the definition of the “metal” product requirements (bronze, silver, gold and platinum). Each metal product must satisfy a specific actuarial value. Health insurers participating on public exchanges must offer at least one silver and one gold product. Additionally, effective January 1, 2014, health insurers were required to cancel or discontinue the sale of existing non-ACA-compliant Individual and Small Group products, subject to the conditions of the CMS transitional policies discussed above. •Regulations became effective in September 2011 that require filings for premium rate increases to be reviewed for Small Group and Individual products above specified thresholds, generally 10%, as may be adjusted from time to time. The regulations provide for state insurance regulators to conduct the reviews, except for cases where a state does not have an “effective” rate review program or in federal enforcement states, in which cases HHS will conduct the reviews for any rate increase filed.•The Health Care Reform Premium Stabilization Programs introduce new requirements to the MLR calculation, beginning with the 2014 benefit year for the Individual and Small Group markets. The risk adjustment program is a permanent program that transfers dollars from insurers who enroll individuals with lower relative health risk to insurers who enroll individuals with higher relative health risk. Risk adjustment payments/receipts will be determined separately for each state and for Individual and Small Group. The second premium stabilization program is the transitional reinsurance program, a temporary program that runs from 2014 through 2016. The transitional reinsurance program is intended to help stabilize premiums by reimbursing issuers of ACA-compliant non-grandfathered Individual market plans for eligible claims between a defined attachment point and ceiling, at a coinsurance rate defined by HHS. The program will be funded through assessments per covered enrollee upon the commercial health insurance market and sponsors of self-funded health benefit plans of approximately $12.0 billion, -19-$8.0 billion and $5.0 billion in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. The final premium stabilization program is the temporary risk corridor program, also a three year program through 2016, that protects insurers from inaccurate pricing of Individual and Small Group qualified health plans and substantially similar off-exchange products. Beginning in 2014, MLR rebate calculations are adjusted to reflect the impact of the Health Care Reform Premium Stabilization Programs.•Through December 31, 2013, and depending on the laws in each state, health insurers were allowed to consider factors such as health status, gender and age in determining the appropriate premium for products in the Individual and Small Group markets. Some states have adopted rules that limit the variation between the highest and lowest premium for the identical insurance policy. The differential in pricing is commonly referred to as “rating bands”. The process of using these rating bands allowed health insurers to appropriately price for products and to spread the risk more broadly across all policyholders. Except for policies issued under the CMS transitional policies, beginning in 2014, the ACA precludes health insurers from using health status and gender in the determination of the appropriate insurance premium. In addition, rating bands for age cannot vary by more than 3 to 1 and the rating bands for tobacco use cannot vary by more than 1.5 to 1. The ongoing use of the 3 to 1 rating bands may have a significant impact on the majority of Individual and Small Group customers and could lead to adverse selection in the market as well as increased variability in projecting future premiums for those customer markets.•In 2014 significant new taxes and fees became effective for health insurers, some of which may or may not be passed through to customers. The most significant of the taxes and fees is the annual Health Insurance Provider Fee, or HIP Fee, on health insurers that write certain types of health insurance on U.S. risks. The annual HIP Fee is allocated to health insurers based on the ratio of the amount of an insurer's net premium revenues written during the preceding calendar year to an adjusted amount of health insurance for all U.S. health risk for those certain lines of business written during the preceding calendar year. The HIP Fee is non-deductible for federal income tax purposes. The total amount collected from allocations to health insurers in 2015 and 2014 was $11.3 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively. We record our estimated liability for the HIP Fee in full at the beginning of the year with a corresponding deferred asset that is amortized on a straight-line basis to general and administrative expense. The final calculation and payment of the annual HIP Fee occurs in the third quarter each year and our portion of the HIP Fee for 2015 and 2014 was $1.2 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively. The annual HIP Fee to be allocated to all health insurers remains at $11.3 billion for 2016, has been suspended for 2017 and will resume and be increased to $14.3 billion for 2018. For 2019 and beyond, the annual HIP Fee will equal the amount for the preceding year increased by the rate of premium growth for the preceding year less the rate of growth in the consumer price index for the preceding calendar year.  •Medicare Advantage reimbursement rates will not increase as much as they would otherwise due to a new payment formula promulgated by the ACA that is expected to significantly reduce reimbursements in the future. We also expect further and ongoing regulatory guidance on a number of issues related to Medicare, evolving methodology for ratings and quality bonus payments, and potential action on an audit methodology to review data submitted under “risk adjuster” programs.Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection ActThe Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, includes a number of financial reforms and regulations that may affect our business and financial reporting, including margin requirements, reporting and clearing transactions for our investments in derivative instruments. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a Federal Insurance Office, with limited powers that include information-gathering and subpoena authority. Although the Federal Insurance Office does not have authority over health insurance, it may have authority over other parts of our business, such as life insurance.HIPAA and Gramm-Leach-Bliley ActThe federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes obligations for issuers of health insurance coverage and health benefit plan sponsors. This law requires guaranteed renewability of health care coverage for most group health plans and certain individuals. Also, the law limited exclusions based on preexisting medical conditions.-20-The administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA imposed a number of requirements on covered entities (including insurers, HMOs, group health plans, providers and clearinghouses). These requirements include uniform standards of common electronic health care transactions; privacy and security regulations; and unique identifier rules for employers, health plans and providers. Additional federal privacy and security requirements, including breach notification, improved enforcement and additional limitations on use and disclosure of protected health information were passed through the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health, or HITECH, Act provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and corresponding implementing regulations. CMS posted the Interim Final Rule with Comment, or IFC, adopting operating rules for two electronic transactions: eligibility for a health plan and health care claims status. Based on the comments received on the IFC, CMS has decided not to change any of the policies established in the rule. Thus, the interim final rule became the final rule. The rule had a January 1, 2013 compliance date and we believe we have effectively complied with the requirements of the rule.The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally places restrictions on the disclosure of non-public information to non-affiliated third parties, and requires financial institutions, including insurers, to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal information is used, including an opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures. State departments of insurance and certain federal agencies adopted implementing regulations as required by federal law. In addition, a number of states have adopted data security laws and/or regulations, regulating data security and/or requiring security breach notification, which may apply to us in certain circumstances.Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974The provision of services to certain employee welfare benefit plans is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, a complex set of laws and regulations subject to interpretation and enforcement by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Labor. ERISA regulates certain aspects of the relationships between us, the employers that maintain employee welfare benefit plans subject to ERISA and participants in such plans. Some of our administrative services and other activities may also be subject to regulation under ERISA. In addition, certain states require licensure or registration of companies providing third party claims administration services for benefit plans. We provide a variety of products and services to employee welfare benefit plans that are covered by ERISA. Plans subject to ERISA can also be subject to state laws and the question of whether and to what extent ERISA preempts a state law has been, and will continue to be, interpreted by many courts.HMO and Insurance Holding Company Laws, including Risk-Based Capital RequirementsWe are regulated as an insurance holding company and are subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which our insurance company and HMO subsidiaries are domiciled. These acts contain certain reporting requirements as well as restrictions on transactions between an insurer or HMO and its affiliates. These holding company laws and regulations generally require insurance companies and HMOs within an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of each state where they are domiciled and to file with those states’ insurance departments certain reports describing capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions, an enterprise risk report and general business operations. In addition, various notice and reporting requirements generally apply to transactions between insurance companies and HMOs and their affiliates within an insurance holding company system, depending on the size and nature of the transactions. Some insurance holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval or, in certain circumstances, prior notice of certain material intercompany transfers of assets as well as certain transactions between insurance companies, HMOs, their parent holding companies and affiliates. Among other provisions, state insurance and HMO laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends.Additionally, the holding company acts of the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company or HMO without prior regulatory approval. Under those statutes, without such approval (or an exemption), no person may acquire any voting security of an insurance holding company, which controls an insurance company or HMO, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would “control” the insurance holding company. “Control” is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of the voting securities of another person. Dispositions of control generally are also regulated under the state holding company acts.-21-The states of domicile of our regulated subsidiaries have statutory risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements for health and other insurance companies and HMOs based on the RBC Model Act. These RBC requirements are intended to assess the capital adequacy of life and health insurers and HMOs, taking into account the risk characteristics of a company’s investments and products. In general, under these laws, an insurance company or HMO must submit a report of its RBC level to the insurance department or insurance commissioner of its state of domicile for each calendar year. The law requires increasing degrees of regulatory oversight and intervention as a company’s RBC declines. As of December 31, 2015, the RBC levels of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries exceeded all RBC thresholds.Guaranty Fund AssessmentsUnder insolvency or guaranty association laws in most states, insurance companies can be assessed for amounts paid by guaranty funds for policyholder losses incurred when an insurance company becomes insolvent. Most state insolvency or guaranty association laws currently provide for assessments based upon the amount of premiums received on insurance underwritten within such state (with a minimum amount payable even if no premium is received). Under many of these guaranty association laws, assessments against insurance companies that issue policies of accident or sickness insurance are made retrospectively. Some states permit insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets or through future policyholder assessments.States’ adoption of the revised NAIC Model Guaranty Fund Act will tend to decrease our liability for insolvent insurers. The revised act reduces the premium base on which assessments are calculated, by omitting Medicare Parts C and D premium from the assessment base.While the amount and timing of any future assessments cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that future guaranty association assessments for insurer insolvencies will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources with the exception of potential exposure related to the Penn Treaty Network America Insurance Company and its subsidiary American Network Insurance Company insolvency as discussed in Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies”, to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.EmployeesAt December 31, 2015, we had approximately 53,000 employees. Our employees are an important asset, and we seek to develop them to their full potential. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good.Available InformationWe are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act) and are required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our Internet website is www.antheminc.com. We have included our Internet website address throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K as textual reference only. The information contained on, or accessible through, our Internet website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge, by mail or through our Internet website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. We also include on our Internet website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct and the charter of each standing committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. Anthem, Inc. is an Indiana corporation incorporated on July 17, 2001.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following is a description of significant factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you -22-should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all our potential risks or uncertainties. Because of these and other factors, past performance should not be considered an indication of future performance.Federal Health Care Reform, together with the changes in federal and state regulations that have been, and continue to be, enacted to implement it, could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. The passage of Health Care Reform during 2010 and subsequent regulations represent significant changes to the U.S. health care system. The legislation and regulations are far-reaching and are intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over time by mandating that most individuals obtain health insurance coverage, increasing the eligibility thresholds for most state Medicaid programs and providing certain other individuals and small businesses with tax credits to subsidize a portion of the cost of health insurance coverage. In addition, the new laws impose significant fees, assessments and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and other industry participants. Health Care Reform imposes an annual industry-wide HIP Fee. The total amount collected from allocations to health insurers in 2015 and 2014 was $11.3 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively and our portion of the HIP Fee for 2015 and 2014 was $1.2 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively. The annual HIP Fee remains at $11.3 billion for 2016, has been suspended for 2017 and will resume and be increased to $14.3 billion for 2018, with annual adjustments thereafter. The HIP Fee is not deductible for income tax purposes and is allocated pro rata among us and other industry participants based on net premiums written. Health Care Reform also imposes industry-wide reinsurance assessments under a temporary three year program which were $8.0 billion and $12.0 billion for 2015 and 2014, respectively, and decrease to $5.0 billion for 2016. The reinsurance assessments are based on an insurer’s total number of insured members. Insurance companies will pay the fees based upon insured members whereas self-insured entities will pay them directly to HHS. As we are one of the nation's largest health benefits companies, we expect our share of the Health Care Reform fees, assessments and taxes will continue to be significant. We may not be able to include or recoup all or a portion of these fees, assessments and taxes in our premium or public program rates.Health Care Reform also imposes new regulations on the health insurance sector, including, but not limited to, guaranteed coverage and expanded benefit requirements; prohibitions on some annual and all lifetime limits on amounts paid on behalf of or to our members; increased restrictions on rescinding coverage; establishment of minimum MLR and customer rebate requirements; creation of a federal rate review process; a requirement to cover preventive services on a first dollar basis; the establishment of public exchanges and essential benefit packages and greater limitations on how we price certain of our products. In addition, the legislation reduces the reimbursement levels for our health plans participating in the Medicare Advantage program over time and limits the amount of executive compensation that is deductible for income tax purposes.  The legislation also contains risk adjustment provisions applicable to the Individual and Small Group markets that effectively transfer funds from health plans with relatively lower risk enrollees to plans with relatively higher risk enrollees to help protect against adverse selection. Effectively adapting to these risk adjustment provisions has required us to modify our operational and strategic initiatives to focus on and manage different populations of potential members than we have in the past. If we are not able to successfully design and implement operational and strategic initiatives to adapt to these changes in certain of our markets, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Further, the Health Care Reform Premium Stabilization programs may not make payments timely, or as expected, due to lower than anticipated collections. For example, in 2015, the risk corridor program fell short of expectations and, as a result, the payments from the program were approximately 12.6% of the amount that was requested by health insurance issuers.  Although the majority of Health Care Reform’s provisions have been implemented, as the remaining provisions are phased in, we could be impacted through potential disruption to the employer-based market, potential cost shifting in the health care delivery system to insurance companies and limitations on the ability to increase premiums to meet costs. We have dedicated material resources and incurred material expenses to implement and comply with Health Care Reform at both the state and federal levels, and we expect to dedicate material resources and incur material expenses going forward to implement and comply with future regulations that provide guidance and clarification on significant portions of the legislation. The Health Care Reform law and regulations are likely to have significant effects on our future operations, which, in turn, could impact the value of our business model and results of operations, including potential impairments of our goodwill and other intangible assets. -23-Finally, federal and state regulatory agencies may further restrict our ability to obtain new product approvals, implement changes in premium rates or impose additional restrictions, under new or existing laws that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to significant government regulation, and changes in the regulation of our business by state and federal regulators may adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.Our business is subject to regulation at the state and federal level. In addition to Health Care Reform, we face regulation associated with many aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, licensing, premiums, marketing activities, provider contracting, access and payment standards, and corporate governance and financial reporting matters. Our insurance, managed health care and HMO subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by regulatory authorities in each state in which they are licensed or authorized to do business, in addition to regulation by federal agencies. Future regulatory action by state or federal authorities could have a material adverse effect on the profitability or marketability of our health benefits or managed care products or on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because of our participation in government-sponsored programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, a number of our subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by CMS and state Medicaid agencies, and to changes in government regulations or policy with respect to, among other things, reimbursement levels, eligibility requirements, benefit coverage requirements and additional governmental participation which could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in tax laws and regulations, or changes in the interpretation of tax laws and regulations by federal and/or state authorities may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. State legislatures will continue to focus on health care delivery and financing issues. Such issues are sometimes addressed directly by voters in ballot initiatives, such as the upcoming ballot initiative in Colorado that would replace health insurers in the state with a single government payer. Most states are very focused on how to manage and reduce their budgets and are exploring ways to mitigate cost increases. As such, some states have acted to reduce or limit increases to premium payments. Others have enacted, or are contemplating enacting, significant reform of their health insurance markets to include provisions affecting both public programs and privately-financed health insurance arrangements. If enacted into law, these state proposals could have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, operations or financial condition. The existence of multiple public insurance exchange options has led to increased uncertainties and made our planning for the public exchanges more difficult as we are required to comply with the varying rules of multiple exchanges. In addition, a number of states in which we offer Medicaid products, including Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin, have indicated their current decision to opt out of Medicaid expansion, at least for the present time. If states allow certain programs to expire or choose to opt out of Medicaid expansion, we could experience reduced Medicaid enrollment and reduced growth opportunities.Additionally, from time to time, Congress has considered, and may consider in the future, various forms of managed care reform legislation which, if adopted, could fundamentally alter the treatment of coverage decisions under ERISA. There have been legislative attempts to limit ERISA’s preemptive effect on state laws and litigants’ ability to seek damages beyond the benefits offered under their plans. If adopted, such limitations could increase our liability exposure, could permit greater state regulation of our operations, and could expand the scope of damages, including punitive damages, litigants could be awarded. While we cannot predict if any of these initiatives will ultimately become effective or, if enacted, what their terms will be, their enactment could increase our costs, expose us to expanded liability or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business. Our inability to contain health care costs, implement increases in premium rates on a timely basis, maintain adequate reserves for policy benefits or maintain cost effective provider agreements may adversely affect our business and profitability. Our profitability depends in large part on accurately predicting health care costs and on our ability to manage future health care costs through medical management, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and underwriting criteria. Government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement have also caused the private sector to bear a greater share of increasing health care costs. Changes in health care practices, demographic characteristics, inflation, -24-new technologies, the cost of prescription drugs, clusters of high cost cases, changes in the regulatory environment and numerous other factors affecting the cost of health care may adversely affect our ability to predict and manage health care costs, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Relatively small differences between predicted and actual health care costs as a percentage of premium revenues can result in significant changes in our results of operations, particularly with respect to our products sold through the public exchanges, as we and our competitors have limited experience with pricing such products or the utilization rates for medical or other covered services by members who purchase our products through such exchanges. The public exchanges may increase the risk that our products will be selected by individuals who have a higher risk profile or utilization rate than the pool of participants we anticipated when we established the pricing for these public exchange products. Health care benefit costs in excess of our cost projections reflected in our public exchange product pricing cannot be recovered in the current premium period through higher premiums. Although federal risk adjustment mechanisms, including risk adjustment payments, risk corridors and reinsurance, could help offset health care benefit costs in excess of our projections if our assumptions regarding cost trends, utilization, enrollment, adverse selection, acuity and other assumptions utilized in setting our premium rates are significantly different than actual results, our income statement and financial position could be adversely affected. In addition to the challenge of managing health care costs, we face pressure to contain premium rates. Our customers may renegotiate their contracts to seek to contain their costs or may move to a competitor to obtain more favorable premiums. Further, federal and state regulatory agencies may restrict our ability to implement changes in premium rates. For example, the ACA includes an annual rate review requirement to prohibit unreasonable rate increases, and our plans may be excluded from participating in the public exchanges if they are deemed to have a history of “unreasonable” rate increases. Fiscal concerns regarding the continued viability of programs such as Medicare and Medicaid may cause decreasing reimbursement rates, delays in premium payments or a lack of sufficient increase in reimbursement rates for government-sponsored programs in which we participate. A limitation on our ability to increase or maintain our premium or reimbursement levels or a significant loss of membership resulting from our need to increase or maintain premium or reimbursement levels could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. The reserves that we establish for health insurance policy benefits and other contractual rights and benefits are based upon assumptions concerning a number of factors, including trends in health care costs, expenses, general economic conditions and other factors. To the extent the actual claims experience is less favorable than estimated based on our underlying assumptions, our incurred losses would increase and future earnings could be adversely affected. Our profitability is dependent in part upon our ability to contract on favorable terms with hospitals, physicians and other health care providers. The failure to maintain or to secure cost-effective health care provider contracts on competitive terms may result in a loss of membership or higher medical costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, ACO practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose may change the way that these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. Such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which may impact our relationship with these providers or affect the way that we price our products and estimate our costs and may require us to incur costs to change our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flow could be adversely affected. Further, our inability to contract with providers, or if providers attempt to use their market position to negotiate more favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, or the inability of providers to provide adequate care, could adversely affect our business. In addition, we do not have contracts with all providers that render services to our members and, as a result, do not have a pre-established agreement about the amount of compensation those out-of-network providers will accept for the services they render, which can result in significant litigation or arbitration proceedings. A significant reduction in the enrollment in our health benefits programs could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. A significant reduction in the number of enrollees in our health benefits programs could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could contribute to a reduction in enrollment include: reductions in workforce by existing customers; general economic downturn that results in business failures and high unemployment rates; employers no longer offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or electing to offer this coverage on a -25-voluntary, employee-funded basis; participation on public exchanges and related underwriting changes; state and federal regulatory changes; failure to obtain new customers or retain existing customers; premium increases and benefit changes; our exit from a specific market; negative publicity and news coverage; and failure to attain or maintain nationally recognized accreditations. There are various risks associated with participating in Medicaid and Medicare programs, including dependence upon government funding and the timing of payments, compliance with government contracts and increased regulatory oversight. We contract with various state and federal agencies, including CMS, to provide managed health care services, including Medicare Advantage plans, Medicare Supplement plans, Medicare approved prescription drug plans, Medicaid, TANF, SPD, LTSS, CHIP and ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs. We also provide various administrative services for several other entities offering medical and/or prescription drug plans to their Medicare eligible members through our affiliated companies and we offer employer group waiver plans which provide medical and/or prescription drug coverage to retirees. We are also participating in Medicare and Medicaid dual eligible programs in several states. These programs in our Government Business segment have been the subject of recent regulatory reform initiatives, including Health Care Reform, which are still in the process of being implemented. It is difficult to predict the future impact of Health Care Reform on our Government Business segment due to Health Care Reform’s complexity, gradual implementation, and possible amendment. Changes in Health Care Reform to date have required us to make investments in new products, services and technologies, which investments may not be realized if certain provisions are delayed or substantially modified. Health Care Reform, other regulatory reform initiatives or additional changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs are dependent, in whole or in part, upon annual funding from the federal government and/or applicable state governments. The base premium rate paid by each state or federal agency differs depending upon a combination of various factors such as defined upper payment limits, a member’s health status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix, member eligibility category and risk scores. Future levels of Medicare and Medicaid rates may be affected by continued government efforts to contain costs and may be further affected by state and federal budgetary constraints. If the federal government or any state in which we operate were to decrease rates paid to us, pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends or seek an adjustment to previously negotiated rates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, certain of our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation in the event of the unavailability of state funds. In addition, the various states’ new Medicare and Medicaid dual eligible programs are still subject to uncertainty surrounding payment rates and other requirements, which could affect where we seek to participate in these new programs. An unexpected reduction, inadequate government funding or significantly delayed payments for these programs may adversely affect our revenues, cash flow and financial results. A portion of our premium revenue comes from CMS through our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D contracts. As a consequence, our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans are dependent on federal government funding levels. The premium rates paid to Medicare plans are established based on benchmarks which are now tied to a percentage of Medicare fee for service, although the rates differ depending on a combination of factors, including upper payment limits established by CMS, a member’s health profile and status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix, member eligibility categories and risk scores. Beginning in 2014, Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans became subject to MLR rules. Continuing government efforts to contain health care related expenditures, including prescription drug cost, and other federal budgetary constraints that result in changes in the Medicare program, including changes with respect to funding, could lead to reductions in the amount of reimbursement, or other changes that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Risks associated with the Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans include potential uncollectability of receivables resulting from processing and/or verifying enrollment, inadequacy of underwriting assumptions, inability to receive and process correct information (including inability due to systems issues by the federal government, the applicable state government or us), uncollectability of premiums from members, increased medical or pharmaceutical costs, overpayments identified as a result of ongoing auditing and monitoring activities, and the limited enrollment periods in this business. While we believe we have adequately reviewed our assumptions and estimates regarding these complex and wide-ranging programs under Medicare Parts C and D, including those related to collectability of receivables and establishment of liabilities, the actual results may be materially different than our assumptions and estimates and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is also -26-the possibility that Medicare Advantage Special Needs plans will not be re-authorized by Congress. Without Congressional action, these plans will expire on December 31, 2016. If the Special Needs plans are not re-authorized, there could be a loss of revenue and it would become more difficult to coordinate Medicare benefits with other coverage. The ACA also established recovery audit programs for Medicare Parts C and D. The Medicare Part D Recovery Audit Contractor, or RAC, has been auditing Medicare Part D claims since 2012, and a Medicare Part C RAC is expected to be named in 2016, which could increase the volume of audits and subsequent recoupments by the federal government.The ACA authorized state Medicaid programs to implement RAC programs similar to Medicare RAC programs and a number of states have done so. State RAC programs could increase the amount of audits and any subsequent recoupment by the federal and state governments, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of our operations.Our contracts with the various state governmental agencies and CMS contain certain provisions regarding data submission, provider network maintenance, quality measures, claims payment, continuity of care, call center performance and other requirements specific to state and federal program regulations. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines, penalties, liquidated damages and retrospective adjustments in payments made to our health plans, that could impact our profitability. Additionally, we could be required to file a corrective plan of action with additional penalties for noncompliance, including a negative impact on future membership enrollment levels. Further, certain of our CMS and state Medicaid contracts are subject to a competitive procurement process, and if our existing contracts are not renewed or if we are not awarded new contracts as a result of this competitive procurement process, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the contractual requirements affecting our participation in Medicaid and Medicare programs, we are also subject to various state and federal health care laws and regulations, including those directed at preventing fraud and abuse in government funded programs. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in investigations or litigation, with the imposition of fines, restrictions or exclusions from program participation or the imposition of corporate integrity agreements or other agreements with a federal or state governmental agency that could adversely impact our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. CMS has been conducting audits of our Medicare Advantage health plans to validate the diagnostic data and patient claims that are submitted to CMS and the Medicare Part D RAC has been conducting audits of our Medicare Part D plans. These audits may result in retrospective adjustments in payments made to our health plans. In addition, if we fail to report and correct errors discovered through our own auditing procedures or during a CMS or RAC audit, or otherwise fail to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines, civil penalties or other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to participate in these programs, and on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, there are an increasing number of investigations regarding compliance with various provisions of the ACA. These investigations are being conducted by both CMS and state regulators. As a result, we could be subject to multiple investigations of the same issue. These investigations, and any possible enforcement actions, could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. We may not complete the acquisition of Cigna within the time frame we anticipate or at all, which could have a negative effect on our business or our results of operations.On July 23, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or Merger Agreement, under which we will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Cigna. The acquisition is subject to a number of closing conditions, such as antitrust and other regulatory approvals, which may not be received or may take longer than expected. The acquisition is also subject to other risks and uncertainties, such as the possibility that Cigna could receive an unsolicited proposal from a third party or that either we or Cigna could exercise our respective termination rights. If the acquisition is not consummated within the expected time frame, or at all, it could have a negative effect on our ability to execute on our growth strategy or on our financial performance.-27- Failure to complete the acquisition could negatively impact our share price and future business, as well as our financial results.If the acquisition is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the acquisition, we could be subject to a number of risks, including the following: we may be required to pay Cigna a termination fee of $1.85 billion or an expense fee of up to $600 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances (as more fully described in the Merger Agreement); and we could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the acquisition or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the Merger Agreement. If the acquisition is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect our business, cash flows and financial condition.We may experience difficulties in integrating Cigna’s business and realizing the expected benefits of the proposed acquisition.The success of the Cigna acquisition, if completed, will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from combining our businesses with those of Cigna. We may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. Integrating operations will be complex and will require significant efforts and expenditures on the part of both us and Cigna. Our management might have its attention diverted while trying to integrate operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures. We might experience increased competition that limits our ability to expand our business, and we might fail to capitalize on expected business opportunities, including retaining current customers.The integration process could result in a disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, employees or other third parties or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Cigna acquisition and could harm our financial performance.If we are unable to successfully or timely integrate the operations of Cigna’s business into our business, we may be unable to realize the revenue growth, synergies and other anticipated benefits resulting from the proposed acquisition and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Even if we complete the Cigna acquisition, the acquired business may underperform relative to our expectations.The health benefits industry is subject to negative publicity, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. The health benefits industry is subject to negative publicity, which can arise from, among other things, the ongoing debate over Health Care Reform. Negative publicity may result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by: adversely affecting our ability to market our products and services; requiring us to change our products and services; or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. In addition, as long as we use the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in marketing our health benefits products and services, any negative publicity concerning the BCBSA or other BCBSA licensees may adversely affect us and the sale of our health benefits products and services. Any such negative publicity could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition in many of our markets and customers and brokers have flexibility in moving between competitors. As a health benefits company, we operate in a highly competitive environment and in an industry that is currently subject to significant changes from legislative reform, business consolidations, new strategic alliances, aggressive marketing practices by other health benefits organizations and market pressures brought about by an informed and organized customer base, particularly among large employers. For example, we began to compete for sales on public exchanges in 2014, which has required, and will continue to require, us to develop or acquire the tools (including social media tools) necessary to interact with the exchanges and with consumers using the exchanges, increase our focus on individual customers and improve -28-our consumer-focused sales and marketing, customer interfaces and product offerings. These factors have produced and will likely continue to produce significant pressures on our profitability. We also will have to respond to pricing and other actions taken by existing competitors and potentially disruptive new entrants. Due to the price transparency provided by public exchanges, in the market for individual health insurance we face competitive pressures from new and existing competitors. These risks may be enhanced if employers shift to defined contribution health care benefits plans and make greater utilization of private insurance exchanges or encourage their employees to purchase health insurance on the public exchanges. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully on these public exchanges or that we will be able to benefit from any opportunities presented by such exchanges. If we are not competitive on these public exchanges or are unsuccessful in reducing our cost structure, our future growth and profitability may be adversely impacted. We are currently dependent on the non-exclusive services of independent agents and brokers in the marketing of our health care products, particularly with respect to individuals, seniors and small employer group customers. We face intense competition for the services and allegiance of these independent agents and brokers, who may also market the products of our competitors. Our relationship with our brokers and independent agents could be adversely impacted by changes in our business practices to address Health Care Reform legislation, including potential reductions in commissions and consulting fees paid to agents and brokers. We cannot ensure that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us will not materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition to attract and retain employees. Further, managing key executive succession and retention is critical to our success. We are dependent on retaining existing employees, attracting additional qualified employees to meet current and future needs and achieving productivity gains from our investment in technology. We face intense competition for qualified employees, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such employees or that such competition among potential employers will not result in increasing salaries. An inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for succession of our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and other senior management and retention of key executives. While we have succession plans in place for members of our senior management, and continue to review and update those plans, and we have employment arrangements with certain key executives, these plans and arrangements do not guarantee that the services of our senior executives will continue to be available to us or that we will be able to attract and retain suitable successors. A change in our health care product mix may impact our profitability. Our health care products that involve greater potential risk generally tend to be more profitable than administrative services products and those health care products where the employer groups assume the underwriting risks. Individuals and small employer groups are more likely to purchase our higher-risk health care products because such purchasers are generally unable or unwilling to bear greater liability for health care expenditures. Typically, government-sponsored programs also involve our higher-risk health care products. It is not yet clear whether our products sold on the public exchanges will be more or less profitable products. A shift of enrollees from more profitable products to less profitable products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a holding company, we are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are necessary to pay our outstanding indebtedness. Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to state regulations, including restrictions on the payment of dividends, maintenance of minimum levels of capital and restrictions on investment portfolios. We are a holding company whose assets include all of the outstanding shares of common stock (or other ownership interest) of our subsidiaries including our intermediate holding companies and regulated insurance and HMO subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities. As a holding company, we depend on dividends from our subsidiaries. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us, and creditors of our subsidiaries will have a superior claim to certain of our subsidiaries’ assets. Among other restrictions, state insurance and HMO laws may restrict the -29-ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. In some states, we have made special undertakings that may limit the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our subsidiaries’ ability to make any payments to us will also depend on their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness, business and tax considerations and other legal restrictions. Our ability to repurchase shares or pay dividends in the future to our shareholders and meet our obligations, including paying operating expenses and debt service on our outstanding and future indebtedness, will depend upon the receipt of dividends from our subsidiaries. An inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends in the future in an amount sufficient for us to meet our financial obligations may materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Most of our regulated subsidiaries are subject to RBC standards, imposed by their states of domicile. These laws are based on the RBC Model Act adopted by the NAIC and require our regulated subsidiaries to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to the departments of insurance and the NAIC. Failure to maintain the minimum RBC standards could subject our regulated subsidiaries to corrective action, including state supervision or liquidation. As discussed in more detail below, we are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA which contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations, including minimum capital and liquidity requirements, which could restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of their investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain riskier investment categories, such as below-investment-grade fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and equity investments, which could generate higher returns on our investments. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations might cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and risk-based capital, and, in some instances, require the sale of those investments. We have substantial indebtedness outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with the Cigna acquisition or otherwise. Such indebtedness could also adversely affect our ability to pursue desirable business opportunities.  Our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal on debt instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to seek extraordinary dividends from our subsidiaries, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. However, these measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. Upon completion of the Cigna acquisition, we expect to have incurred acquisition-related indebtedness of approximately $26.5 billion and to have assumed approximately $5.1 billion of Cigna’s outstanding debt. Our substantially increased indebtedness and debt-to-equity ratio on a recent historical basis will have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and may increase our borrowing costs. In addition, the amount of cash required to service our increased indebtedness levels and thus the demands on our cash resources may be greater than the percentages of cash flows required to service our indebtedness or the indebtedness of Cigna individually prior to the acquisition. The increased levels of indebtedness could also reduce funds available for our investments in product development as well as capital expenditures, share repurchases, shareholder dividends, other desirable business opportunities and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels.  In addition to the expected acquisition-related debt financing described above, we may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. Our breach or failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement or other indebtedness. If we default under our credit agreement, the lenders could cease to make further extensions of credit or cause all of our outstanding debt obligations under our credit agreement to become immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If the indebtedness under our notes or our credit agreement or our other indebtedness is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due. -30-A downgrade in our credit ratings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims-paying ability and financial strength ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and health benefits companies. We believe our strong credit ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to customers, since credit ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. In addition, if our credit ratings are downgraded or placed under review, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted by limitations on future borrowings and a potential increase in our borrowing costs. Our ratings reflect each rating agency’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our obligations to policyholders and creditors, and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock.Each of the ratings organizations reviews our ratings periodically, and there can be no assurance that our current ratings will be maintained in the future. Following the announcement of the Cigna acquisition, each of Standard & Poor’s, A.M. Best, Fitch and Moody’s placed certain of our debt, financial strength and other credit ratings under review for a possible downgrade.  We face risks related to litigation. We are, or may in the future, be a party to a variety of legal actions that may affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits and administrative charges before government agencies, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims and intellectual property-related litigation. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, administration and offering of our products and services. These could include claims relating to the denial of health care benefits; the rescission of health insurance policies; development or application of medical policy; medical malpractice actions; product liability claims; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation; provider tiering programs; narrow networks; termination of provider contracts; the recovery of overpayments from providers; self-funded business; disputes over co-payment calculations; reimbursement of out-of-network claims; the failure to disclose certain business or corporate governance practices; the failure to comply with various state or federal laws, including but not limited to, ERISA and the Mental Health Parity Act; and customer audits and contract performance, including government contracts. These actions or proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are also involved in, or may in the future be party to, pending or threatened litigation of the character incidental to the business transacted, arising out of our operations or our 2001 demutualization, including, but not limited to, breaches of security and violations of privacy requirements (including as a result of the cyber attack reported by us in February 2015, as more fully described under Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Cyber Attack Incident,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), shareholder actions, compliance with federal and state laws and regulations (including qui tam or “whistleblower” actions), or sales and acquisitions of businesses or assets. From time to time, we are involved as a party in various governmental investigations, audits, reviews and administrative proceedings, including challenges to the award of government contracts by disappointed bidders. These investigations, audits and reviews include routine and special investigations by various state insurance departments, state attorneys general and the U.S. Attorney General. Following an investigation, we may be subject to civil or criminal fines, penalties and other sanctions if we are determined to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations. Liabilities that may result from these actions could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial position. Recent court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure for any of these types of claims. In some cases, substantial non-economic (including injunctive relief), treble or punitive damages may be sought. Although we maintain insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, some liabilities and damages may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. In addition, insurance coverage for all or certain forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. Any adverse judgment against us resulting in such damage awards could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. -31-Further, litigation brought against the federal and some state governments over Health Care Reform could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations as changes to Health Care Reform resulting from this litigation create uncertainty over the applicability and enforceability of portions of the law and the various regulations, which impacts our strategy and could negatively impact our future growth opportunities. Our future obligations for state guaranty association assessments could increase in the event that Health Care Reform and its implementation result in increased insolvencies of health insurance plans. Under insolvency or guaranty association laws in most states, insurance companies can be assessed for amounts paid by guaranty funds for policyholder losses incurred when a health insurance plan becomes insolvent. Most state insolvency or guaranty association laws provide for assessments based upon the amount of premiums received on insurance underwritten within such state. Although health insurance company insolvencies have been infrequent, with the implementation of Health Care Reform, a number of smaller health insurance companies and Consumer Operated and Oriented Plan, or Co-op, programs have established premiums that appear to be insufficient to cover the cost of care for their members, which may result in increased insolvencies of health insurance companies and Co-ops covered by these state insolvency or guaranty association laws. In that event, we may experience increased guaranty association assessments, the amount and timing of which cannot be predicted with certainty. In light of significant uncertainty surrounding whether, and to what extent, there may be an increase in insurer or Co-op insolvencies, we are not currently able to estimate our potential financial obligations, losses, or the availability of potential offsets associated with potential increases in guaranty association assessments; however, any significant increase in guaranty association assessments could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.  There are various risks associated with providing health care services. The direct provision of health care services by our CareMore subsidiary involves risks of additional litigation arising from medical malpractice actions based on our treatment decisions or brought against us or our physician associates for alleged malpractice or professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of health care and related services. In addition, liability may arise from maintaining health care premises that serve the public. If we fail to maintain adequate insurance coverage for these liabilities, or if such insurance is not available, the resulting costs could adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, many states in which we operate our CareMore subsidiary limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals. Business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians (“corporate practice of medicine”) and we are not licensed to practice medicine. Rules and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary from state to state. Further, certain federal and state laws, including those covering our Medicare and Medicaid plans, prohibit the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of patient care opportunities, including, but not limited to, Medicare patients (“anti-kickback rules”), and also generally prohibit physicians from making referrals to any entity providing certain designated health services if the referring physician or related person has an ownership or financial interest in the entity (“self-referral rules”). Any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these rules and regulations could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. We are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA that entitle us to the exclusive and in certain areas non-exclusive use of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in our geographic territories. The termination of these license agreements or changes in the terms and conditions of these license agreements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Upon completion of the Cigna acquisition, we may not initially be in compliance with the BCBSA’s national “best efforts” requirement.We use the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks as identifiers for our products and services under licenses from the BCBSA. Our license agreements with the BCBSA contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations and our use of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks, including: minimum capital and liquidity requirements imposed by the BCBSA; enrollment and customer service performance requirements; participation in programs that provide portability of membership between plans; disclosures to the BCBSA relating to enrollment and financial conditions; disclosures as to the structure of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield system in contracts with third parties and in public -32-statements; plan governance requirements; cyber security requirements; a requirement that at least 80% (or, in the case of Blue Cross of California, substantially all) of a licensee’s annual combined local net revenue, as defined by the BCBSA, attributable to health care plans and related services within its service areas must be sold, marketed, administered or underwritten under the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks; a requirement that neither a plan nor any of its licensed affiliates may permit an entity other than a plan or a licensed affiliate to obtain control of the plan or the licensed affiliate or to acquire a substantial portion of its assets related to licensable services; a requirement that we divide our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; a requirement that we guarantee certain contractual and financial obligations of our licensed affiliates; and a requirement that we indemnify the BCBSA against any claims asserted against it resulting from the contractual and financial obligations of any subsidiary that serves as a fiscal intermediary providing administrative services for Medicare Parts A and B. Failure to comply with the foregoing requirements could result in a termination of the license agreements. In addition, our license agreements with the BCBSA include a requirement that at least 66 2/3% of our annual combined national net revenue, as defined by the BCBSA, attributable to health care plans and related services must be sold, marketed, administered or underwritten under the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks, referred to as the “National Best Efforts Requirement.” Due to the size of Cigna’s business, we may not be in compliance with the National Best Efforts Requirement immediately after completion of the acquisition.  We will be required to submit an action plan for coming into compliance with the National Best Efforts Requirement within 120 days of the completion of the Cigna acquisition if we are out of compliance following closing of the acquisition. Under current BCBSA standards, we would be required to cure any non-compliance with the National Best Efforts Requirement within 24 months from the date when the relevant BCBSA committee makes a determination on our action plan. We believe there are multiple options at our disposal to regain compliance within the allotted timeframe, if necessary. Although we strongly believe there would be numerous ways in which we could re-establish compliance with the National Best Efforts Requirement within the required 24 month period, there can be no guarantee such efforts will be successful, and failure to comply with the requirement could ultimately result in a termination of our license agreements under certain circumstances.   The standards under the license agreements may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA. For example, from time to time there have been proposals considered by the BCBSA to modify the terms of the license agreements to restrict various potential business activities of licensees. These proposals have included, among other things, a limitation on the ability of a licensee to make its provider networks available to insurance carriers or other entities not holding a Blue Cross or Blue Shield license. To the extent that such amendments to the license agreements are adopted in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our future expansion plans or results of operations, or our ability to come back into compliance with the National Best Efforts Requirement if the Cigna acquisition is consummated. Further, BCBS licensees have certain requirements to perform administrative services for members of other BCBS licensees. If we or another BCBS licensee is not in compliance with all legal requirements or are unable to perform administrative services as required, this could have an adverse effect on our members and our ability to maintain our licenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Upon the occurrence of an event causing termination of the license agreements, we would no longer have the right to use the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks or to sell Blue Cross and Blue Shield health insurance products and services in one or more of our service areas. Furthermore, the BCBSA would be free to issue a license to use the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in these service areas to another entity. Our existing Blue Cross and Blue Shield members would be provided with instructions for obtaining alternative products and services licensed by the BCBSA. Events that could cause the termination of a license agreement with the BCBSA include failure to comply with minimum capital requirements imposed by the BCBSA, failure to comply with governance requirements such as maintaining a classified board structure, a change of control or violation of the BCBSA ownership limitations on our capital stock, impending financial insolvency and the appointment of a trustee or receiver or the commencement of any action against a licensee seeking its dissolution. We believe that the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks are valuable identifiers of our products and services in the marketplace. Upon termination of a license agreement, the BCBSA would have the right to impose a “Re-establishment Fee” upon us, which would be used in part to fund the establishment of a replacement Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield licensee in the vacated service area. The fee is set at $98.33 per licensed enrollee. As of December 31, 2015, we reported 29.4 million Blue Cross -33-and/or Blue Shield enrollees. If the Re-establishment Fee was applied to our total Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield enrollees, we would be assessed approximately $2.9 billion by the BCBSA. As a result, termination of the license agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regional concentrations of our business may subject us to economic downturns in those regions.Most of our revenues are generated in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin. Due to this concentration of business in these states, we are exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of state specific or regional economic downturns impacting these states. If such negative economic conditions do not improve, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.Large-scale medical emergencies may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Large-scale medical emergencies can take many forms and can cause widespread illness and death. For example, federal and state law enforcement officials have issued warnings about potential terrorist activity involving biological and other weapons. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes and the potential for a widespread pandemic of influenza coupled with the lack of availability of appropriate preventative medicines can have a significant impact on the health of the population of widespread areas. If the United States were to experience widespread bioterrorism or other attacks, large-scale natural disasters in our concentrated coverage areas or a large-scale pandemic or epidemic, our covered medical expenses could rise and we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations or, in the event of extreme circumstances, our viability could be threatened. We have built a significant portion of our current business through mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances and we expect to pursue such opportunities in the future. The following are some of the risks associated with mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances, referred to collectively as business combinations, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations:•some of the acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow, business opportunities, synergies, growth prospects and other anticipated benefits;•the goodwill or other intangible assets established as a result of our business combinations may be incorrectly valued or become non-recoverable;•we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us or which were under-estimated;•we may experience difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or as quickly as expected, and be unable to realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems;•business combinations could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, result in the loss of key employees, divert resources, result in tax costs or inefficiencies and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls, information technology systems, policies and procedures;•we may finance future business combinations by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price, which could dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders;•we may also incur additional debt related to future business combinations; •we would be competing with other firms, some of which may have greater financial and other resources, to acquire attractive companies; and•future business combinations may make it difficult to comply with the requirements of the BCBSA and lead to an increased risk that our BCBSA license agreements may be terminated.  -34-The value of our intangible assets may become impaired.Due largely to our past mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. If we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheets. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to income may be necessary. This impairment testing requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting units, including goodwill and other intangible assets (with indefinite lives). In addition, certain other intangible assets with indefinite lives, such as trademarks, are also tested separately. Estimated fair values developed based on our assumptions and judgments might be significantly different if other reasonable assumptions and estimates were to be used. If estimated fair values are less than the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives in future impairment tests, or if significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may be required to record impairment losses against future income. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders’ equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in shareholders’ equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. In addition, the estimated value of our reporting units may be impacted as a result of business decisions we make associated with the implementation of the various Health Care Reform regulations. Such decisions, which could unfavorably affect our ability to support the carrying value of certain goodwill and other intangible assets, could result in impairment charges in future periods. Adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs. The securities and credit markets have been experiencing higher than normal volatility. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness and pay capital expenditures. The principal sources of our cash receipts are premiums, administrative fees, investment income, other revenue, proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investment securities, proceeds from borrowings and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If one or a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value may result in a loss charged to income. The market values of our investments vary from time to time depending on economic and market conditions. For various reasons, we may sell certain of our investments at prices that are less than the carrying value of the investments. In addition, in periods of declining interest rates, bond calls and mortgage loan prepayments generally increase, resulting in the reinvestment of these funds at the then lower market rates. In periods of rising interest rates, the market values of our fixed maturity securities will generally decrease, which could result in material unrealized or realized losses on investments in future periods. In addition, defaults by issuers, primarily from investments in corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to pay or perform their obligations, could reduce net investment income, which would adversely affect our profitability. We cannot assure you that our investment portfolios will produce positive returns in future periods.  In accordance with FASB guidance for debt and equity investments, we classify fixed maturity and equity securities in our investment portfolio as “available-for-sale” or “trading” and report those securities at fair value. Current and long-term -35-available-for-sale investment securities represented a significant percentage of our total consolidated assets at December 31, 2015. Also, in accordance with applicable FASB accounting guidance, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis analyzing both quantitative and qualitative factors. Such factors considered include the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends. Changes in the economic environment, including periods of increased volatility of the securities markets, can increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. We believe we have adequately reviewed our investment securities for impairment and we believe that we have appropriately estimated the fair values of our investment securities. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight, which could change our judgment regarding the fair value of certain securities and/or impairment. Given the sometimes rapidly changing market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses. We may not be able to realize the value of our deferred tax assets. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we separately recognize deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Such deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities represent the tax effect of temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting measured at tax rates enacted at the time the deferred tax asset or liability is recorded. At each financial reporting date, we evaluate our deferred tax assets to determine the likely realization of the benefit of the temporary differences. Our evaluation includes a review of the types of temporary differences that created the deferred tax asset; the amount of taxes paid on both capital gains and ordinary income in prior periods and available for a carry-back claim; the forecasted future taxable income, and therefore, the likely future deduction of the deferred tax item; and any other significant issues that might impact the realization of the deferred tax asset. If it is “more likely than not” that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset may not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance. Significant judgment is required in determining an appropriate valuation allowance. Any future increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense and a decrease in shareholders’ equity, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations in the period in which the increase occurs. A material decrease in shareholders’ equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. An unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member or employee information, including by cyber attack or other security breach, could cause a loss of data, give rise to remediation or other expenses, expose us to liability under federal and state laws, and subject us to litigation and investigations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.As part of our normal operations, we collect, process and retain certain sensitive and confidential information. We are subject to various federal, state and international laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of certain sensitive or confidential information, including HIPAA, the HITECH Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and numerous state laws governing personal information. Despite the security measures we have in place to help ensure data security and compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to cyber attacks, security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events.In February 2015, we reported the discovery that certain of our information technology systems had been the target of an external cyber attack, as more fully described under Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Cyber Attack Incident,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are addressing the impact of this cyber attack and supporting federal law enforcement efforts to identify the responsible parties. The attackers gained unauthorized access to certain of our information technology systems and obtained personal information related to many individuals and employees. We have incurred expenses to investigate and remediate this matter and expect to continue to incur expenses of this nature in the foreseeable future. Actions have been filed in various federal and state courts -36-and other claims have been or may be asserted against us, allegedly arising out of the cyber attack. Further, we may be subject to additional litigation and governmental investigations which could divert the attention of management from the operation of our business, result in reputational damage and have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. While we have contingency plans and insurance coverage for potential liabilities of this nature, these may not be sufficient to cover all claims and liabilities.In addition, we cannot ensure that we will be able to identify, prevent or contain the effects of additional cyber attacks or other cybersecurity risks in the future that bypass our security measures or disrupt our information technology systems or business. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage and unauthorized access, remain a priority for us. Noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations, or any security breach, cyber attack or cybersecurity breach, and any incident involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of, or access to, sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us or by one of our vendors, could require us to expend significant resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures and to remediate any damage. In addition, this could result in interruptions to our operations and damage our reputation, and could also result in regulatory enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, litigation or other actions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.The failure to effectively maintain and upgrade our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our business depends significantly on effective information systems, and we have many different information systems for our various businesses. As a result of our merger and acquisition activities, we have acquired additional systems. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, emerging cybersecurity risks and threats, evolving industry and regulatory standards including public exchanges and other aspects of Health Care Reform, compliance with legal requirements, private insurance exchanges and changing customer preferences. In addition, we may from time to time obtain significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties, which may make our operations vulnerable if such third parties fail to perform adequately. Failure to adequately implement and maintain effective and efficient information systems with sufficiently advanced technological capabilities, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could result in competitive and cost disadvantages to us compared to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the information we rely upon to run our business were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to adequately maintain our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could have a decrease in membership, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing and reserves, have disputes with customers and providers, have regulatory problems, sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. In addition, federal regulations required us to begin using ICD-10 on October 1, 2015, which has required and will continue to require significant information technology investment. If we fail to adequately implement ICD-10 or encounter difficulties in providers' implementation of ICD-10, we may incur losses with respect to the resources invested and have other material adverse effects on our business and results of operations. Also, as we convert or migrate members to our more efficient and effective systems, the risk of disruption in our customer service is increased during the migration or conversion process and such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on the success of our relationships with third parties for various services and functions, including pharmacy benefit management services. We contract with various third parties to perform certain functions and services and provide us with certain information technology systems. Certain of these third parties provide us with significant portions of our business infrastructure and operating requirements, and we could become overly dependent on key vendors, which could cause us to lose core competencies. A termination of our agreements with, or disruption in the performance of, one or more of these service providers could result in service disruptions or unavailability, reduced service quality and effectiveness, increased or duplicative costs, an inability to meet our obligations to our customers or require us to seek alternative service providers on less favorable contract terms, any of which could adversely affect our business, reputation, cash flows, financial condition and operating results.-37-In particular, we are a party to an agreement with Express Scripts whereby Express Scripts is the exclusive provider of certain PBM services to our plans, excluding our CareMore and Simply Healthcare subsidiaries and certain self-insured members, which have exclusive agreements with different PBM service providers. The Express Scripts PBM services include, but are not limited to, pharmacy network management, mail order and specialty drug fulfillment, claims processing, rebate management and specialty pharmaceutical management services. Accordingly, the agreement contains certain financial and operational requirements obligating both Express Scripts and us. The failure of either party to meet the respective requirements could potentially serve as a basis for early termination of the contract. If this relationship was terminated, we may not be able to meet the full demands of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations, particularly if Express Scripts failed to provide post-termination services. In addition, our failure to meet certain minimum script volume requirements results in financial penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Indiana law, other applicable laws, our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and provisions of our BCBSA license agreements may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider in their best interest. Indiana law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. We are regulated as an insurance holding company and subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, as well as similar provisions included in the health statutes and regulations of certain states where these subsidiaries are regulated as managed care companies or HMOs. The insurance holding company acts and regulations and these similar health provisions restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company or HMO without prior regulatory approval. Under those statutes and regulations, without such approval (or an exemption), no person may acquire any voting security of a domestic insurance company or HMO, or an insurance holding company which controls an insurance company or HMO, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would “control” the insurance holding company, insurance company or HMO. “Control” is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of the voting securities of another person. Further, the Indiana business corporation law contains business combination provisions that, in general, prohibit for five years any business combination with a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our common stock unless the holder’s acquisition of the stock was approved in advance by our Board of Directors. Our articles of incorporation restrict the beneficial ownership of our capital stock in excess of specific ownership limits. The ownership limits restrict beneficial ownership of our voting capital stock to less than 10% for institutional investors and less than 5% for non-institutional investors, both as defined in our articles of incorporation. Additionally, no person may beneficially own shares of our common stock representing a 20% or more ownership interest in us. These restrictions are intended to ensure our compliance with the terms of our licenses with the BCBSA. Our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership of our capital stock beyond these ownership limits without prior approval of a majority of our continuing directors (as defined in our articles of incorporation). In addition, as discussed above in the risk factor describing our license agreements with the BCBSA, such license agreements are subject to termination upon a change of control and re-establishment fees would be imposed upon termination of the license agreements. Certain other provisions included in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may also have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider in their best interests. In particular, our articles of incorporation and bylaws: divide our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms (which is required by our license agreement with the BCBSA); permit our Board of Directors to determine the terms of and issue one or more series of preferred stock without further action by shareholders; restrict the maximum number of directors; limit the ability of shareholders to remove directors; impose restrictions on shareholders’ ability to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors; prohibit shareholders from calling special meetings of shareholders; impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at meetings of shareholders; and prohibit shareholders from amending our bylaws. -38-We also face other risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, which include:•any requirement to restate financial results in the event of inappropriate application of accounting principles;•a significant failure of our internal control over financial reporting;•failure of our prevention and control systems related to employee compliance with internal policies, including data security;•provider fraud that is not prevented or detected and impacts our medical costs or those of self-insured customers;•failure to protect our proprietary information; and•failure of our corporate governance policies or procedures.ITEM 1B