ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Our business activities and the value of our securities are
    subject to significant hazards and risks, including those
    described below. If any of such events should occur, our
    business, financial condition, liquidity
    and/or
    results of operations could be materially harmed, and holders
    and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their
    investments. Additional risks relating to our securities may be
    included in the prospectuses for securities we issue in the
    future.


 



    Future
    economic conditions in the U.S. and key international markets
    may materially adversely impact our operating
    results.


 


    The U.S. and other world economies are slowly recovering
    from a global financial crisis and recession that began in 2008.
    Growth has resumed but is modest and at an unsteady rate. There
    are likely to be significant long-term effects resulting from
    the recession and credit market crisis, including a future
    global economic growth rate that is slower than in the years
    leading up to the crisis, and more volatility may occur before a
    sustainable, yet lower, growth rate is achieved. Global economic
    growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including
    fossil fuels. A lower future economic growth rate could result
    in decreased demand growth for our crude oil and natural gas
    production as well as lower commodity prices, which would reduce
    our cash flows from operations and our profitability.


 


    In addition, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
    Development (OECD) has encouraged countries with large federal
    budget deficits to initiate deficit reduction measures. Such
    measures, if they are undertaken too rapidly, could further
    undermine economic recovery and slow growth by reducing demand.




    
    21



Table of Contents






    Crude
    oil and natural gas prices are volatile and a substantial
    reduction in these prices could adversely affect our results and
    the price of our common stock.


 


    Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth depend
    highly upon the prices we receive for our crude oil and natural
    gas production. Historically, the markets for crude oil and
    natural gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be
    volatile in the future. For example, the NYMEX daily settlement
    price for the prompt month oil contract in 2010 ranged from a
    high of $92.89 per barrel to a low of $68.01 per barrel. The
    NYMEX daily settlement price for the prompt month natural gas
    contract in 2010 ranged from a high of $6.01 per MMBtu to a low
    of $3.29 per MMBtu. The market prices for crude oil and natural
    gas depend on factors beyond our control. These factors include
    demand for crude oil and natural gas, which fluctuates with
    changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations;




 



     
        • 

    
    political conditions and events (including instability or armed
    conflict) in crude oil or natural gas producing regions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the level of global crude oil and natural gas inventories;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and level of imported foreign crude oil and natural
    gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of alternative fuels, including coal
    and biofuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of pipeline capacity and infrastructure;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of crude oil transportation and refining
    capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    electricity generation;




 



     
        • 

    
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the overall economic environment.





 


    Significant declines in crude oil and natural gas prices for an
    extended period may have the following effects on our business:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    limiting our financial condition, liquidity,
    and/or
    ability to fund planned capital expenditures and operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    reducing the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can
    produce economically;




 



     
        • 

    
    causing us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects;




 



     
        • 

    
    reducing our revenues, operating income and cash flows;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our access to sources of capital, such as equity and
    long-term debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    a reduction in the carrying value of our crude oil and natural
    gas properties; or




 



     
        • 

    
    a reduction in the carrying value of goodwill.





 


    We recorded asset impairment charges during 2008 and 2009. No
    impairment charges were recorded during 2010. If commodity
    prices decline, there could be additional impairments of our oil
    and gas assets or other investments or an impairment of goodwill.


 



    Our
    ability to sell natural gas or oil and/or receive market prices
    for our natural gas or oil may be adversely affected by pipeline
    and gathering system capacity constraints and various
    transportation interruptions.


 


    A portion of our natural gas and oil production in any region
    may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous
    reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents,
    loss of pipeline or gathering system





    
    22



Table of Contents





    access, field labor issues or strikes, or capital constraints
    that limit the ability of third parties to construct gathering
    systems, processing facilities or interstate pipelines to
    transport our production, or we might voluntarily curtail
    production in response to market conditions. If a substantial
    amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it
    could temporarily adversely affect our cash flow.


 



    Weather
    and climate may have a significant adverse impact on our
    revenues and productivity.


 


    Demand for oil and natural gas are, to a significant degree,
    dependent on weather and climate, which impact the price we
    receive for the commodities we produce. In addition, our
    exploration and development activities and equipment can be
    adversely affected by severe weather, such as hurricanes in the
    Gulf of Mexico or cyclones offshore Australia, which may cause a
    loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost
    or damaged equipment. Our planning for normal climatic
    variation, insurance programs, and emergency recovery plans may
    inadequately mitigate the effects of such weather, and not all
    such effects can be predicted, eliminated or insured against.


 



    Our
    operations involve a high degree of operational risk,
    particularly risk of personal injury, damage or loss of
    equipment and environmental accidents.


 


    Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in the
    drilling, production and transportation of crude oil and natural
    gas, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    drilling well blowouts, explosions and cratering;




 



     
        • 

    
    pipeline ruptures and spills;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires;




 



     
        • 

    
    formations with abnormal pressures;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment malfunctions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    hurricanes and/or cyclones, which could affect our operations in
    areas such as on- and offshore the Gulf Coast and Australia, and
    other natural disasters.





 


    Failure or loss of equipment, as the result of equipment
    malfunctions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, could
    result in property damages, personal injury, environmental
    pollution and other damages for which we could be liable.
    Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence, such as a
    well blowout, explosion or fire at a location where our
    equipment and services are used, may result in substantial
    claims for damages. Ineffective containment of a drilling well
    blowout or pipeline rupture could result in extensive
    environmental pollution and substantial remediation expenses. If
    a significant amount of our production is interrupted, our
    containment efforts prove to be ineffective or litigation arises
    as the result of a catastrophic occurrence, our cash flow and,
    in turn, our results of operations could be materially and
    adversely affected.


 



    The
    Devon and Mariner transactions have increased our exposure to
    Gulf of Mexico operations.


 


    Our recent acquisitions of oil and gas assets in offshore Gulf
    of Mexico from Devon Energy Corporation and Mariner Energy, Inc.
    have increased our exposure to offshore Gulf of Mexico
    operations. Greater offshore concentration proportionately
    increases risks from delays or higher costs common to offshore
    activity, including severe weather, availability of specialized
    equipment and compliance with environmental and other laws and
    regulations.


 


    In addition, as a result of the current lack of drilling
    activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and slowdown of
    drilling activity on the Gulf of Mexico shelf caused by the
    regulatory response to the Deepwater Horizon incident, drilling
    equipment and oil field services companies may decide to exit
    the Gulf of Mexico, making such services less available
    and/or more
    expensive once drilling activities are allowed to fully resume.




    
    23



Table of Contents






    Any
    additional deepwater drilling laws and regulations, delays in
    the processing and approval of permits and other related
    developments in the Gulf of Mexico as well as our other
    locations resulting from the Deepwater Horizon incident could
    adversely affect Apache’s business.


 


    As has been widely reported, on April 20, 2010, a fire and
    explosion occurred onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig
    Deepwater Horizon, which lead to a significant oil spill that
    affected the Gulf of Mexico. In response to this incident, the
    BOEMRE ceased issuing drilling permits pursuant to a series of
    moratoria, and all deepwater drilling activities in progress
    were suspended. Although the moratoria have been lifted, the DOI
    has not issued any permits related to the drilling of new
    exploratory wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico as of
    January 31, 2011. In 2010 the DOI issued new rules designed
    to improve drilling and workplace safety, and various
    Congressional committees began pursuing legislation to regulate
    drilling activities and increase liability.


 


    In January 2011 the President’s National Commission on the
    BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling released
    its report, recommending that the federal government require
    additional regulation and an increase in liability caps. The
    European Commission has recommended that new legislation be
    enacted to enhance the safety of offshore oil and gas
    activities. Additional legislation or regulation is being
    discussed which could require companies operating in the Gulf of
    Mexico to establish and maintain a higher level of financial
    responsibility under its Certificate of Financial
    Responsibility, a certificate required by the Oil Pollution Act
    of 1990 which evidences a company’s financial ability to
    pay for cleanup and damages caused by oil spills. There have
    also been discussions regarding the establishment of a new
    industry mutual insurance fund in which companies would be
    required to participate and which would be available to pay for
    consequential damages arising from an oil spill. These
    and/or other
    legislative or regulatory changes could require us to maintain a
    certain level of financial strength and may reduce our financial
    flexibility.


 


    The BOEMRE is expected to continue to issue new safety and
    environmental guidelines or regulations for drilling in the Gulf
    of Mexico, and other regulatory agencies could potentially issue
    new safety and environmental guidelines or regulations in other
    geographic regions, and may take other steps that could increase
    the costs of exploration and production, reduce the area of
    operations and result in permitting delays. We are monitoring
    legislation and regulatory developments; however, it is
    difficult to predict the ultimate impact of any new guidelines,
    regulations or legislation. A prolonged suspension of drilling
    activity in the U.S. and abroad and new regulations and
    increased liability for companies operating in this sector could
    adversely affect Apache’s operations in the U.S. Gulf
    of Mexico as well as in our other locations.


 



    Our
    commodity price risk management and trading activities may
    prevent us from benefiting fully from price increases and may
    expose us to other risks.


 


    To the extent that we engage in price risk management activities
    to protect ourselves from commodity price declines, we may be
    prevented from realizing the full benefits of price increases
    above the levels of the derivative instruments used to manage
    price risk. In addition, our hedging arrangements may expose us
    to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances,
    including instances in which:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our production falls short of the hedged volumes;




 



     
        • 

    
    there is a widening of price-basis differentials between
    delivery points for our production and the delivery point
    assumed in the hedge arrangement;




 



     
        • 

    
    the counterparties to our hedging or other price risk management
    contracts fail to perform under those arrangements; or




 



     
        • 

    
    a sudden unexpected event materially impacts oil and natural gas
    prices.





 



    The
    credit risk of financial institutions could adversely affect
    us.


 


    We have exposure to different counterparties, and we have
    entered into transactions with counterparties in the financial
    services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks,
    insurance companies, other investment funds and other
    institutions. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the
    event of default of our counterparty. Deterioration in the
    credit markets may impact the credit ratings of our current and
    potential counterparties and





    
    24



Table of Contents





    affect their ability to fulfill their existing obligations to us
    and their willingness to enter into future transactions with us.
    We have exposure to financial institutions in the form of
    derivative transactions in connection with our hedges and
    insurance companies in the form of claims under our policies. In
    addition, if any lender under our credit facility is unable to
    fund its commitment, our liquidity will be reduced by an amount
    up to the aggregate amount of such lender’s commitment
    under our credit facility.


 



    We are
    exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of our
    receivables.


 


    We are exposed to risk of financial loss from trade, joint
    venture, joint interest billing and other receivables. We sell
    our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs to a variety of purchasers.
    As operator, we pay expenses and bill our non-operating partners
    for their respective shares of costs. Some of our purchasers and
    non-operating partners may experience liquidity problems and may
    not be able to meet their financial obligations. Nonperformance
    by a trade creditor or non-operating partner could result in
    significant financial losses.


 



    A
    downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost
    of and ability to access capital.


 


    We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in
    the United States. Factors that may impact our credit ratings
    include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and
    near-term and long-term production growth opportunities.
    Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix and
    commodity pricing levels and others are also considered by the
    rating agencies. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our
    ability to access debt markets in the future, increase the cost
    of future debt and potentially require the Company to post
    letters of credit for certain obligations.


 



    Market
    conditions may restrict our ability to obtain funds for future
    development and working capital needs, which may limit our
    financial flexibility.


 


    During 2010 credit markets recovered but remain vulnerable to
    unpredictable shocks. We have a significant development project
    inventory and an extensive exploration portfolio, which will
    require substantial future investment. We
    and/or our
    partners may need to seek financing in order to fund these or
    other future activities. Our future access to capital, as well
    as that of our partners and contractors, could be limited if the
    debt or equity markets are constrained. This could significantly
    delay development of our property interests.


 



    Our
    ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to
    limitations.


 


    The payment of future dividends on our capital stock is subject
    to the discretion of our board of directors, which considers,
    among other factors, our operating results, overall financial
    condition, credit-risk considerations and capital requirements,
    as well as general business and market conditions. Our board of
    directors is not required to declare dividends on our common
    stock and may decide not to declare dividends.


 


    Any indentures and other financing agreements that we enter into
    in the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our
    capital stock, including common stock. In the event that any of
    our indentures or other financing agreements in the future
    restrict our ability to pay dividends in cash on the mandatory
    convertible preferred stock, we may be unable to pay dividends
    in cash on the common stock unless we can refinance amounts
    outstanding under those agreements. In addition, under Delaware
    law, dividends on capital stock may only be paid from
    “surplus,” which is defined as the amount by which our
    total assets exceeds the sum of our total liabilities, including
    contingent liabilities, and the amount of our capital; if there
    is no surplus, cash dividends on capital stock may only be paid
    from our net profits for the then current
    and/or the
    preceding fiscal year. Further, even if we are permitted under
    our contractual obligations and Delaware law to pay cash
    dividends on common stock, we may not have sufficient cash to
    pay dividends in cash on our common stock.


 



    Discoveries
    or acquisitions of additional reserves are needed to avoid a
    material decline in reserves and production.


 


    The production rate from oil and gas properties generally
    declines as reserves are depleted, while related
    per-unit
    production costs generally increase as a result of decreasing
    reservoir pressures and other factors. Therefore, unless we add
    reserves through exploration and development activities or,
    through engineering studies,





    
    25



Table of Contents





    identify additional behind-pipe zones, secondary recovery
    reserves or tertiary recovery reserves, or acquire additional
    properties containing proved reserves, our estimated proved
    reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced.
    Future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent
    upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional
    reserves on an economic basis. Furthermore, if oil or gas prices
    increase, our cost for additional reserves could also increase.


 



    We may
    not realize an adequate return on wells that we
    drill.


 


    Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the
    risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or
    gas reservoirs. The wells we drill or participate in may not be
    productive, and we may not recover all or any portion of our
    investment in those wells. The seismic data and other
    technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior
    to drilling a well that crude or natural gas is present or may
    be produced economically. The costs of drilling, completing and
    operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may
    be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of
    factors including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering;




 



     
        • 

    
    marine risks such as capsizing, collisions and hurricanes;




 



     
        • 

    
    other adverse weather conditions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increase in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the
    availability of, drilling rigs and equipment.





 


    Future drilling activities may not be successful and, if
    unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our
    future results of operations and financial condition. While all
    drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these
    risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes
    or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.


 



    Material
    differences between the estimated and actual timing of critical
    events may affect the completion and commencement of production
    from development projects.


 


    We are involved in several large development projects whose
    completion may be delayed beyond our anticipated completion
    dates. Our projects may be delayed by project approvals from
    joint venture partners, timely issuances of permits and licenses
    by governmental agencies, weather conditions, manufacturing and
    delivery schedules of critical equipment, and other unforeseen
    events. Delays and differences between estimated and actual
    timing of critical events may adversely affect our large
    development projects and our ability to participate in large
    scale development projects in the future.


 



    We may
    fail to fully identify potential problems related to acquired
    reserves or to properly estimate those reserves.


 


    Although we perform a review of properties that we acquire that
    we believe is consistent with industry practices, such reviews
    are inherently incomplete. It generally is not feasible to
    review in depth every individual property involved in each
    acquisition. Ordinarily, we will focus our review efforts on the
    higher-value properties and will sample the remainder. However,
    even a detailed review of records and properties may not
    necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it
    permit us as a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the
    properties to assess fully and accurately their deficiencies and
    potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every
    well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater
    contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an
    inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, we
    often assume certain environmental and other risks and
    liabilities in connection with acquired properties. There are
    numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of
    proved oil and gas reserves and future production rates and
    costs with respect to acquired properties, and actual results
    may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. In
    addition, there can be no assurance





    
    26



Table of Contents





    that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon our
    operating results, particularly during the periods in which the
    operations of acquired businesses are being integrated into our
    ongoing operations.


 



    The
    Mariner and BP transactions have exposed us to additional risks
    and uncertainties with respect to the acquired businesses and
    their operations.


 


    Although the acquired Mariner and BP businesses are generally
    subject to risks similar to those to which we are subject in our
    existing businesses, the Mariner and BP transactions may
    increase these risks. For example, the increase in the scale of
    our operations may increase our operational risks. The publicity
    associated with the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico resulting
    from the fire and explosion onboard the Deepwater Horizon, which
    was under contract to BP, may cause regulatory agencies to
    scrutinize our operations more closely. This additional scrutiny
    may adversely affect our operations.


 



    We may
    have difficulty combining the operations of both Mariner and the
    BP properties, and the anticipated benefits of these
    transactions may not be achieved.


 


    Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Mariner and BP
    transactions will depend in part upon whether we can
    successfully integrate the operations of Mariner and the BP
    properties with ours. Our ability to integrate the operations of
    Mariner and the BP properties successfully will depend on our
    ability to monitor operations, coordinate exploration and
    development activities, control costs, attract, retain and
    assimilate qualified personnel and maintain compliance with
    regulatory requirements. The difficulties of integrating the
    operations of Mariner and the BP properties may be increased by
    the necessity of combining organizations with distinct cultures
    and widely dispersed operations. The integration of operations
    following these transactions will require the dedication of
    management and other personnel, which may distract their
    attention from the
    day-to-day
    business of the combined enterprise and prevent us from
    realizing benefits from other opportunities. Completing the
    integration process may be more expensive than anticipated, and
    we cannot assure you that we will be able to effect the
    integration of these operations smoothly or efficiently or that
    the anticipated benefits of the transactions will be achieved.


 



    Several
    significant matters in the BP Acquisition were not resolved
    before closing.


 


    Because of the relatively short time period between signing the
    BP Purchase Agreements and the closing of the acquisition of the
    BP properties, several significant matters commonly resolved
    prior to closing such an acquisition have been reserved for
    after closing. We did not have sufficient time before closing on
    the BP Properties to conduct a full title review and
    environmental assessment. Although remedies are limited for
    title, we may discover adverse environmental or other conditions
    after closing and after the time periods specified in the BP
    Purchase Agreements during which we may be able to seek, in
    certain cases, indemnification from or cure of the defect or
    adverse condition by BP for such matters. For example, Apache
    Canada Ltd. has asserted a claim against BP Canada arising from
    the acquisition of certain Canadian properties under the BP
    Purchase Agreements. The dispute centers on Apache Canada
    Ltd.’s identification of Alleged Adverse Conditions, as
    that term is defined in the BP Purchase Agreements, and more
    specifically, the contention that liabilities associated with
    such conditions were retained by BP Canada as seller. There can
    be no assurance that we will prevail on this or any future claim
    against BP.


 



    The BP
    Acquisition and/or our liabilities could be adversely affected
    in the event one or more of the BP entities become the subject
    of a bankruptcy case.


 


    In light of the extensive costs and liabilities related to the
    oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, there was public
    speculation as to whether one or more of the BP entities could
    become the subject of a case or proceeding under Title 11
    of the United States Code or any other relevant insolvency law
    or similar law (which we collectively refer to as
    “Insolvency Laws”). In the event that one or more of
    the BP entities were to become the subject of such a case or
    proceeding, a court may find that the BP Purchase Agreements are
    executory contracts, in which case such BP entities may, subject
    to relevant Insolvency Laws, have the right to reject the
    agreements and refuse to perform their future obligations under
    them. In this event, our ability to enforce our rights under the
    BP Purchase Agreements could be adversely affected.




    
    27



Table of Contents





    Additionally, in a case or proceeding under relevant Insolvency
    Laws, a court may find that the sale of the BP Properties
    constitutes a constructive fraudulent conveyance that should be
    set aside. While the tests for determining whether a transfer of
    assets constitutes a constructive fraudulent conveyance vary
    among jurisdictions, such a determination generally requires
    that the seller received less than a reasonably equivalent value
    in exchange for such transfer or obligation and the seller was
    insolvent at the time of the transaction, or was rendered
    insolvent or left with unreasonably small capital to meet its
    anticipated business needs as a result of the transaction. The
    applicable time periods for such a finding also vary among
    jurisdictions, but generally range from two to six years. If a
    court were to make such a determination in a proceeding under
    relevant Insolvency Laws, our rights under the BP Purchase
    Agreements, and our rights to the BP Properties, could be
    adversely affected.


 



    Crude
    oil and natural gas reserves are estimates, and actual
    recoveries may vary significantly.






 


    There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude
    oil and natural gas reserves and their value. Reservoir
    engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground
    accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be
    measured in an exact manner. Because of the high degree of
    judgment involved, the accuracy of any reserve estimate is
    inherently imprecise, and a function of the quality of available
    data and the engineering and geological interpretation. Our
    reserves estimates are based on 12-month average prices, except
    where contractual arrangements exist; therefore, reserves
    quantities will change when actual prices increase or decrease.
    In addition, results of drilling, testing and production may
    substantially change the reserve estimates for a given reservoir
    over time. The estimates of our proved reserves and estimated
    future net revenues also depend on a number of factors and
    assumptions that may vary considerably from actual results,
    including:






 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    historical production from the area compared with production
    from other areas;









 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the effects of regulations by governmental agencies, including
    changes to severance and excise taxes;













 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    future operating costs and capital expenditures; and













 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    workover and remediation costs.









 


    For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable
    quantities of crude oil and natural gas attributable to any
    particular group of properties, classifications of those
    reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future
    net cash flows expected from them prepared by different
    engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may
    vary substantially. Accordingly, reserves estimates may be
    subject to upward or downward adjustment, and actual production,
    revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves likely
    will vary, possibly materially, from estimates.


 


    Additionally, because some of our reserves estimates are
    calculated using volumetric analysis, those estimates are less
    reliable than the estimates based on a lengthy production
    history. Volumetric analysis involves estimating the volume of a
    reservoir based on the net feet of pay of the structure and an
    estimation of the area covered by the structure. In addition,
    realization or recognition of proved undeveloped reserves will
    depend on our development schedule and plans. A change in future
    development plans for proved undeveloped reserves could cause
    the discontinuation of the classification of these reserves as
    proved.


 



    Certain
    of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that
    will expire over the next several years unless production is
    established on units containing the acreage.


 


    A sizeable portion of our acreage is currently undeveloped.
    Unless production in paying quantities is established on units
    containing certain of these leases during their terms, the
    leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right
    to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these
    areas are subject to change based upon various factors,
    including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the
    availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs,
    availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering
    system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory
    approvals.




    
    28



Table of Contents






    We may
    incur significant costs related to environmental
    matters.


 


    As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties, we
    are subject to various federal, provincial, state, local and
    foreign country laws and regulations relating to discharge of
    materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws
    and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on the
    lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost of pollution
    clean-up
    resulting from operations, subject the lessee to liability for
    pollution damages and require suspension or cessation of
    operations in affected areas. Our efforts to limit our exposure
    to such liability and cost may prove inadequate and result in
    significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In
    addition, it is possible that the increasingly strict
    requirements imposed by environmental laws and enforcement
    policies could require us to make significant capital
    expenditures. Such capital expenditures could adversely impact
    our cash flows and our financial condition.


 



    Our
    North American operations are subject to governmental risks that
    may impact our operations.


 


    Our North American operations have been, and at times in the
    future may be, affected by political developments and by
    federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations such
    as restrictions on production, changes in taxes, royalties and
    other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies,
    price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection
    laws and regulations. New political developments, laws and
    regulations may adversely impact our results on operations.


 



    Pending
    regulations related to emissions and the impact of any changes
    in climate could adversely impact our business.


 


    Legislation is pending in a number of countries where Apache
    operates including Australia, and Canada, the United Kingdom,
    that, if enacted, could tax or assess some form of greenhouse
    gas (GHG) related fees on Company operations and could lead to
    increased operating expenses. Such legislation, if enacted,
    could also potentially cause the Company to make significant
    capital investments for infrastructure modifications. Through
    2011, three of the jurisdictions in which the Company has
    operations, Alberta and British Columbia, Canada and the United
    Kingdom (European Union), have enacted legislation which exposes
    the Company to financial payments related to GHG emissions from
    production facilities. This exposure has not been material to
    date.


 


    Furthermore, various governmental entities in countries where
    Apache operates have discussed regulatory initiatives that
    could, if adopted, require the Company to modify existing or
    planned infrastructure to meet GHG emissions performance
    standards and necessitate significant capital expenditures. At
    some level, the cost of performance standards may force the
    early retirement of smaller production facilities, which in
    aggregate may have a material adverse effect on Apache’s
    business.


 


    Several of the countries we operate in are signatories to
    current international accords related to climate change, such as
    the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on
    Climate Change. Given the current implementation of the Kyoto
    Protocol, we do not expect it to have a material impact on the
    Company.


 


    Several indirect consequences of regulation and business trends
    have potential to impact us. Taxes or fees on carbon emissions
    could lead to decreased demand for fossil fuels. Consumers may
    prefer alternative products and unknown technological
    innovations may make oil and gas less significant energy sources.


 


    In the event the predictions for rising temperatures and sea
    levels suggested by reports of the United Nations
    Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change do transpire, we do
    not believe those events by themselves are likely to impact the
    Company’s assets or operations. However, any increase in
    severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our
    assets and operations.


 



    The
    proposed U.S. federal budget for fiscal year 2012 includes
    certain provisions that, if passed as originally submitted, will
    have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of
    operations, and cash flows.


 


    On February 14, 2011, the Office of Management and Budget
    released a summary of the proposed U.S. federal budget for
    fiscal year 2012. The proposed budget repeals many tax
    incentives and deductions that are currently used by
    U.S. oil and gas companies and imposes new taxes. The
    provisions include: elimination of the ability to fully





    
    29



Table of Contents





    deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; increases
    in the taxation of foreign source income; repeal of the
    manufacturing tax deduction for oil and natural gas companies;
    and an increase in the geological and geophysical amortization
    period for independent producers. Should some or all of these
    provisions become law, our taxes will increase, potentially
    significantly, which would have a negative impact on our net
    income and cash flows. This could also cause us to reduce our
    drilling activities in the U.S. Since none of these
    proposals have yet to be voted on or become law, we do not know
    the ultimate impact these proposed changes may have on our
    business.


 



    Proposed
    federal regulation regarding hydraulic fracturing could increase
    our operating and capital costs.


 


    Several proposals are before the U.S. Congress that, if
    implemented, would either prohibit the practice of hydraulic
    fracturing or subject the process to regulation under the Safe
    Drinking Water Act. We routinely use fracturing techniques in
    the U.S. and other regions to expand the available space
    for natural gas and oil to migrate toward the well-bore. It is
    typically done at substantial depths in very tight formations.


 


    Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final
    outcome of the legislation regarding hydraulic fracturing, any
    new federal restrictions on hydraulic fracturing that may be
    imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in
    increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions
    in the U.S.


 



    A
    deterioration of conditions in Egypt or changes in the economic
    and political environment in Egypt could have an adverse impact
    on our business.


 


    In 2010 our operations in Egypt contributed 28 percent of
    our production revenue, 25 percent of total production and
    10 percent of total estimated proved reserves. In 2010 we
    sold all of our Egyptian gas production and 34 percent of
    our Egyptian oil production to the Egyptian General Petroleum
    Company (EGPC), the Egyptian state-owned oil company, and sold
    the remainder in the export market. As a result of political
    unrest, protests, riots, street demonstrations and acts of civil
    disobedience that began on January 25, 2011, in the
    Egyptian capital of Cairo, former Egyptian president Hosni
    Mubarak has stepped down, effective February 11, 2011. The
    Egyptian Supreme Council of the Armed Forces is now in power. On
    February 13, 2011, the Council announced that the
    constitution would be suspended, both houses of parliament would
    be dissolved, and that the military would rule for six months
    until elections can be held. Further changes in the political,
    economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the
    Egyptian government, such as changes in laws or regulations,
    export restrictions, expropriation of our assets or resource
    nationalization,
    and/or
    forced renegotiation or modification of our existing contracts
    with EGPC could materially and adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    International
    operations have uncertain political, economic and other
    risks.


 


    Our operations outside North America are based primarily in
    Egypt, Australia, the United Kingdom and Argentina. On a barrel
    equivalent basis, approximately 52 percent of our 2010
    production was outside North America and approximately
    30 percent of our estimated proved oil and gas reserves on
    December 31, 2010 were located outside North America. As a
    result, a significant portion of our production and resources
    are subject to the increased political and economic risks and
    other factors associated with international operations
    including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general strikes and civil unrest;




 



     
        • 

    
    the risk of war, acts of terrorism, expropriation and resource
    nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of
    existing contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    import and export regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and
    retroactive tax claims, and investment restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    price control;




 



     
        • 

    
    transportation regulations and tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    constrained natural gas markets dependent on demand in a single
    or limited geographical area;







    
    30



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    exchange controls, currency fluctuations, devaluation or other
    activities that limit or disrupt markets and restrict payments
    or the movement of funds;




 



     
        • 

    
    laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade,
    including trade sanctions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of being subject to exclusive jurisdiction of
    foreign courts in connection with legal disputes relating to
    licenses to operate and concession rights in countries where we
    currently operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible inability to subject foreign persons, especially
    foreign oil ministries and national oil companies, to the
    jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in enforcing our rights against a governmental
    agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign
    sovereignty over international operations.





 


    Foreign countries have occasionally asserted rights to oil and
    gas properties through border disputes. If a country claims
    superior rights to oil and gas leases or concessions granted to
    us by another country, our interests could decrease in value or
    be lost. Even our smaller international assets may affect our
    overall business and results of operations by distracting
    management’s attention from our more significant assets.
    Various regions of the world in which we operate have a history
    of political and economic instability. This instability could
    result in new governments or the adoption of new policies that
    might result in a substantially more hostile attitude toward
    foreign investments such as ours. In an extreme case, such a
    change could result in termination of contract rights and
    expropriation of our assets. This could adversely affect our
    interests and our future profitability.


 


    The impact that future terrorist attacks or regional hostilities
    may have on the oil and gas industry in general, and on our
    operations in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty
    surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign
    may affect operations in unpredictable ways, including
    disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and
    the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including
    pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and
    refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties
    of, an act of terror or war. We may be required to incur
    significant costs in the future to safeguard our assets against
    terrorist activities.


 


    In recent weeks civil unrest, which started in Tunisia, has
    spread to the Middle East. Prolonged
    and/or
    widespread regional conflict in the Middle East could have the
    following results, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    volatility in the global crude prices, which could negatively
    impact the global economy, resulting in slower economic growth
    rates, which could reduce demand for our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    negative impact on the world’s crude oil supply if
    transportation avenues are disrupted, leading to further
    commodity price volatility;




 



     
        • 

    
    damage to or destruction of our wells, production facilities,
    receiving terminals or other operating assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability of our service equipment providers to deliver items
    necessary for us to conduct our operations in the Middle East;




 



     
        • 

    
    lack of availability of drilling rigs, oil field equipment or
    services if third party providers decide to exit the region.





 



    Our
    operations are sensitive to currency rate
    fluctuations.


 


    Our operations are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and
    the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the British
    Pound. Our financial statements, presented in U.S. dollars,
    are affected by foreign currency fluctuations through both
    translation risk and transaction risk. Volatility in exchange
    rates may adversely affect our results of operation,
    particularly through the weakening of the U.S. dollar
    relative to other currencies.


 



    We
    face strong industry competition that may have a significant
    negative impact on our result of operations.


 


    Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas
    exploration and production industry. We compete with major
    integrated and other independent oil and gas companies for
    acquisition of oil and gas leases, properties and





    
    31



Table of Contents





    reserves, equipment and labor required to explore, develop and
    operate those properties and marketing of oil and natural gas
    production. Crude oil and natural gas prices impact the costs of
    properties available for acquisition and the number of companies
    with the financial resources to pursue acquisition
    opportunities. Many of our competitors have financial and other
    resources substantially larger than we possess and have
    established strategic long-term positions and maintain strong
    governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek new
    entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage
    in bidding for drilling rights. In addition, many of our larger
    competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to
    factors that affect demand for oil and natural gas production,
    such as fluctuating worldwide commodity prices and levels of
    production, the cost and availability of alternative fuels and
    the application of government regulations. We also compete in
    attracting and retaining personnel, including geologists,
    geophysicists, engineers and other specialists. These
    competitive pressures may have a significant negative impact on
    our results of operations.


 



    Our
    insurance policies do not cover all of the risks we face, which
    could result in significant financial exposure.


 


    Exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas can
    be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other events such
    as blowouts, cratering, fire and explosion and loss of well
    control which can result in damage to or destruction of wells or
    production facilities, injury to persons, loss of life, or
    damage to property and the environment. Our international
    operations are also subject to political risk. The insurance
    coverage that we maintain against certain losses or liabilities
    arising from our operations may be inadequate to cover any such
    resulting liability; moreover, insurance is not available to us
    against all operational risks.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B