ITEM 1A. 

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Our business activities and the value of our securities are
    subject to significant hazards and risks, including those
    described below. If any of such events should occur, our
    business, financial condition, liquidity
    and/or
    results of operations could be materially harmed, and holders
    and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their
    investments. Additional risks relating to our securities may be
    included in the prospectuses for securities we issue in the
    future.



    
    12



 



 



    Our
    Profitability is Highly Dependent on the Prices of Crude Oil,
    Natural Gas and Natural Gas Liquids, Which Have Historically
    Been Very Volatile


 


    Our estimated proved reserves, revenues, profitability,
    operating cash flows and future rate of growth are highly
    dependent on the prices of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs,
    which are affected by numerous factors beyond our control.
    Historically, these prices have been very volatile. A
    significant downward trend in commodity prices would have a
    material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and cash
    flow, and could result in a reduction in the carrying value of
    our oil and gas properties and the amounts of our estimated
    proved oil and gas reserves.


 



    Our
    Commodity Hedging May Prevent Us From Benefiting Fully From
    Price Increases and May Expose Us to Other Risks


 


    To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to protect
    ourselves from commodity price volatility, we may be prevented
    from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels
    of the hedges.


 



    Acquisitions
    or Discoveries of Additional Reserves are Needed to Avoid a
    Material Decline in Reserves and Production


 


    The rate of production from oil and gas properties generally
    declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that we
    find or acquire additional properties containing estimated
    proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development
    activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional
    behind-pipe zones, secondary recovery reserves or tertiary
    recovery reserves, our estimated proved reserves will decline
    materially as reserves are produced. Future oil and gas
    production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of
    success in acquiring or finding additional reserves.


 



    Our
    Drilling Activities May Not Be Productive


 


    Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the
    risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or
    gas reservoirs. The costs of drilling, completing and operating
    wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be
    curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of
    factors including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in formations;



 


     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;



 


     
        • 

    
    fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering;



 


     
        • 

    
    marine risks such as capsizing, collisions and hurricanes;



 


     
        • 

    
    other adverse weather conditions; and



 


     
        • 

    
    shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment.





 


    Certain future drilling activities may not be successful and, if
    unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our
    future results of operations and financial condition. While all
    drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these
    risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes
    or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.


 



    Risks
    Arising From the Failure to Fully Identify Potential Problems
    Related to Acquired Reserves or to Properly Estimate Those
    Reserves


 


    One of our primary growth strategies is the acquisition of oil
    and gas properties. Although we perform a review of the acquired
    properties that we believe is consistent with industry
    practices, such reviews are inherently incomplete. It generally
    is not feasible to review in depth every individual property
    involved in each acquisition. Ordinarily, we will focus our
    review efforts on the higher-value properties and will sample
    the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and
    properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential
    problems, nor will it



    
    13



 




    permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the
    properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential.
    Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and
    environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are
    not necessarily observable even when an inspection is
    undertaken. Even when problems are identified, we often assume
    certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in
    connection with acquired properties. There are numerous
    uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil
    and gas reserves and actual future production rates and
    associated costs with respect to acquired properties, and actual
    results may vary substantially from those assumed in the
    estimates. In addition, there can be no assurance that
    acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon our operating
    results, particularly during the periods in which the operations
    of acquired businesses are being integrated into our ongoing
    operations.


 



    We Are
    Subject to Governmental Risks That May Impact Our
    Operations


 


    Our operations have been, and at times in the future may be,
    affected by political developments and by federal, state,
    provincial and local laws and regulations such as restrictions
    on production, changes in taxes, royalties and other amounts
    payable to governments or governmental agencies, price controls
    and environmental protection laws and regulations.


 



    Global
    Political and Economic Developments May Impact Our
    Operations


 


    Political and economic factors in international markets may have
    a material adverse effect on our operations. On an
    equivalent-barrel
    basis, approximately 63 percent of our oil, NGLs and
    natural gas production in 2006 was outside the United States,
    and approximately 59 percent of our estimated proved oil
    and gas reserves on December 31, 2006 were located outside
    of the United States.


 


    There are many risks associated with operations in international
    markets, including changes in foreign governmental policies
    relating to crude oil, NGLs, and natural gas pricing and
    taxation, other political, economic or diplomatic developments,
    changing political conditions and international monetary
    fluctuations. These risks include: political and economic
    instability or war; the possibility that a foreign government
    may seize our property with or without compensation;
    confiscatory taxation; legal proceedings and claims arising from
    our foreign investments or operations; a foreign government
    attempting to renegotiate or revoke existing contractual
    arrangements, or failing to extend or renew such arrangements;
    fluctuating currency values and currency controls; and
    constrained natural gas markets dependent on demand in a single
    or limited geographical area.


 


    On December 23, 2004, Apache entered into a
    20-year
    insurance contract with the Overseas Private Investment
    Corporation (OPIC) which provides $300 million of political
    risk insurance for the Company’s Egyptian operations. This
    policy insures us against (1) non-payment by EGPC of
    arbitral awards covering amounts owed Apache on past due
    invoices and (2) expropriation of exportable petroleum when
    actions taken by the Government of Egypt prevent Apache from
    exporting our share of production. See Item 7,
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations, “Critical Accounting Policies
    and Estimates, Allowance for Doubtful Accounts” in this
    Form 10-K
    for additional discussion of our Egyptian receivables.


 


    In addition to the contract with OPIC, the Company has acquired
    commercial political risk insurance covering significant
    portions of its investments in Egypt and Argentina. The
    insurance provides coverage for confiscation, nationalization,
    and expropriation risks and currency inconvertibility, and is
    written on multi-year contracts with highly rated international
    insurers.


 


    Actions of the United States government through tax and other
    legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions can
    adversely affect our operating profitability in the U.S. as
    well as other countries. Various agencies of the United States
    and other governments have, from time to time, imposed
    restrictions which have limited our ability to gain attractive
    opportunities or even operate in various countries. These
    restrictions have in the past limited our foreign opportunities
    and may continue to do so in the future.



    
    14



 



 



    Weather
    and Climate May Have a Significant Impact on Our Revenues and
    Productivity


 


    Demand for oil and natural gas are, to a significant degree,
    dependent on weather and climate, which impacts the price we
    receive for the commodities we produce. In addition, our
    exploration and development activities and equipment can be
    adversely affected by severe weather, such as hurricanes in the
    Gulf of Mexico, which may cause a loss of production from
    temporary cessation of activity or lost or damaged equipment.
    While our planning for normal climatic variation, insurance
    program, and emergency recovery plans mitigate the effects of
    the weather, not all such effects can be predicted, eliminated
    or insured against.


 



    Costs
    Incurred Related to Environmental Matters


 


    We, as an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas
    properties, are subject to various federal, provincial, state,
    local and foreign country laws and regulations relating to
    discharge of materials into, and protection of the environment.
    These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose
    liability on the lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost
    of pollution
    clean-up
    resulting from operations, subject the lessee to liability for
    pollution damages, and require suspension or cessation of
    operations in affected areas.


 


    We have made and will continue to make expenditures in our
    efforts to comply with these requirements, which we believe are
    necessary business costs in the oil and gas industry. We have
    established policies for continuing compliance with
    environmental laws and regulations, including regulations
    applicable to our operations in all countries in which we do
    business. We also have established operational procedures and
    training programs designed to minimize the environmental impact
    of our field facilities. The costs incurred by these policies
    and procedures are inextricably connected to normal operating
    expenses such that we are unable to separate the expenses
    related to environmental matters; however, we do not believe any
    such additional expenses are material to our financial position
    or results of operations.


 


    Apache manages its exposure to environmental liabilities on
    properties to be acquired by identifying existing problems and
    assessing the potential liability. The Company also conducts
    periodic reviews, on a company-wide basis, to identify changes
    in its environmental risk profile. These reviews evaluate
    whether there is a probable liability, its amount, and the
    likelihood that the liability will be incurred. The amount of
    any potential liability is determined by considering, among
    other matters, incremental direct costs of any likely
    remediation and the proportionate cost of our employees who are
    expected to devote a significant amount of time to any possible
    remediation effort. Our general policy is to limit any reserve
    additions to incidents or sites that are considered probable to
    result in an expected remediation cost exceeding $100,000.


 


    We maintain insurance coverage, which we believe is customary in
    the industry, although we are not fully insured against all
    environmental risks. As described in Note 10, Commitments
    and Contingencies of Item 15, in this
    Form 10-K,
    on December 31, 2006, we had an accrued liability of
    $17 million for environmental remediation. We have not
    incurred any material environmental remediation costs in any of
    the periods presented and we are not aware of any future
    environmental remediation matters that would be material to our
    financial position or results of operations.


 


    Although environmental requirements have a substantial impact
    upon the energy industry, generally these requirements do not
    appear to affect us any differently, or to any greater or lesser
    extent, than other upstream companies in the industry. We do not
    believe that compliance with federal, provincial, state, local
    or foreign country provisions regulating the discharge of
    materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the
    protection of the environment, will have a material adverse
    effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
    position of Apache or its subsidiaries; however, there is no
    assurance that changes in or additions to laws or regulations
    regarding the protection of the environment will not have such
    an impact.


 



    Industry
    Competition


 


    Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas
    exploration and production industry. We compete with major
    integrated and other independent oil and gas companies for
    acquisition of oil and gas leases, properties and reserves,
    equipment and labor required to explore, develop and operate
    those properties and the marketing of oil and natural gas
    production. Higher recent crude oil and natural gas prices have
    increased the costs of properties



    
    15



 




    available for acquisition and there are a greater number of
    companies with the financial resources to pursue acquisition
    opportunities. Many of our competitors have financial and other
    resources substantially larger than those we possess and have
    established strategic long-term positions and maintain strong
    governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek new
    entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage
    in bidding for drilling rights. In addition, many of our larger
    competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to
    factors that affect demand for oil and natural gas production,
    such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production, the
    cost and availability of alternative fuels and the application
    of government regulations. We also compete in attracting and
    retaining personnel, including geologists, geo-physicists,
    engineers and other specialists.


 



    Insurance
    Does Not Cover All Risks


 


    Exploration for and production of oil and natural gas can be
    hazardous, involving unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts,
    cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can result in
    damage to or destruction of wells or production facilities,
    injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property or the
    environment. We maintain insurance against certain losses or
    liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with
    customary industry practices and in amounts that management
    believes to be prudent; however, insurance is not available to
    us against all operational risks.


 


    In response to large underwriting losses caused by Hurricanes
    Katrina and Rita, the insurance industry has reduced capacity
    for windstorm damage and substantially increased premium rates.
    As a result, there is no assurance that Apache will be able to
    arrange insurance to cover fully its Gulf of Mexico exposures at
    a reasonable cost when the current policies expire.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B