ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Our business activities and the value of our securities are
    subject to significant hazards and risks, including those
    described below. If any of such events should occur, our
    business, financial condition, liquidity
    and/or
    results of operations could be materially harmed, and holders
    and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their
    investments. Additional risks relating to our securities may be
    included in the prospectuses for securities we issue in the
    future.


 



    Our
    profitability is highly dependent on the prices of crude oil,
    natural gas and natural gas liquids, which have historically
    been very volatile


 


    Our estimated proved reserves, revenues, profitability,
    operating cash flows and future rate of growth are highly
    dependent on the prices of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs,
    which are affected by numerous factors beyond our control.
    Historically, these prices have been very volatile, and are
    likely to remain volatile in the future. A significant and
    extended downward trend in commodity prices would have a
    material adverse effect on our



    
    13



 




    revenues, profitability and cash flow, and could result in a
    reduction in the carrying value of our oil and gas properties
    and the amounts of our estimated proved oil and gas reserves. To
    the extent that we have not hedged our production with
    derivative contracts or fixed-price contracts, any significant
    and extended decline in oil and natural gas prices adversely
    affects our financial position.


 



    Our
    commodity hedging may prevent us from benefiting fully from
    price increases and may expose us to other risks


 


    To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to protect
    ourselves from commodity price declines, we may be prevented
    from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels
    of the hedges.


 


    Hedging arrangements may expose us to the risk of financial loss
    in certain circumstances, including instances in which our
    production is less than expected; there is a widening of price
    basis differentials between delivery points for our production
    and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; or the
    counterparties to our future contracts fail to perform under the
    contracts. We cannot assure that our hedging transactions will
    reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in crude
    oil or natural gas prices.


 



    Acquisitions
    or discoveries of additional reserves are needed to avoid a
    material decline in reserves and production


 


    The production rate from oil and gas properties generally
    declines as reserves are depleted, while related per unit
    production costs generally increase due to decreasing reservoir
    pressures and other factors. Therefore, unless we add reserves
    through exploration and development activities or, through
    engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones,
    secondary recovery reserves or tertiary recovery reserves, or
    acquire additional properties containing proved reserves our
    estimated proved reserves will decline materially as reserves
    are produced. Future oil and gas production is, therefore,
    highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or
    finding additional reserves on an economic basis. Furthermore,
    if oil or gas prices increase, our cost for additional reserves
    could also increase.


 



    Inherent
    risk in drilling


 


    Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the
    risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or
    gas reservoirs. The wells we drill or participate in may not be
    productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our
    investment in those wells. The seismic data and other
    technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior
    to drilling a well that crude or natural gas is present or may
    be produced economically. The costs of drilling, completing and
    operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may
    be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of
    factors including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering;




 



     
        • 

    
    marine risks such as capsizing, collisions and hurricanes;




 



     
        • 

    
    other adverse weather conditions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increase in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the
    availability of, drilling rigs and equipment.





 


    Certain future drilling activities may not be successful and, if
    unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our
    future results of operations and financial condition. While all
    drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these
    risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes
    or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.



    
    14



 





    Risks
    arising from the failure to fully identify potential problems
    related to acquired reserves or to properly estimate those
    reserves


 


    Although we perform a review of the acquired properties that we
    believe is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are
    inherently incomplete. It generally is not feasible to review in
    depth every individual property involved in each acquisition.
    Ordinarily, we will focus our review efforts on the higher-value
    properties and will sample the remainder. However, even a
    detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily
    reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a
    buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to
    assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may
    not always be performed on every well, and environmental
    problems, such as ground water contamination, are not
    necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken.
    Even when problems are identified, we often assume certain
    environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with
    acquired properties. There are numerous uncertainties inherent
    in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and
    actual future production rates and associated costs with respect
    to acquired properties, and actual results may vary
    substantially from those assumed in the estimates. In addition,
    there can be no assurance that acquisitions will not have an
    adverse effect upon our operating results, particularly during
    the periods in which the operations of acquired businesses are
    being integrated into our ongoing operations.


 



    Our
    North American operations are subject to governmental risks that
    may impact our operations


 


    Our North American operations have been, and at times in the
    future may be, affected by political developments and by
    federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations such
    as restrictions on production, changes in taxes, royalties and
    other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies,
    price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection
    laws and regulations.


 



    International
    operations have uncertain political, economic and other
    risks


 


    Our operations outside North America are based primarily in
    Egypt, Australia, the United Kingdom and Argentina. On a barrel
    equivalent basis, approximately 44 percent of our 2007
    production was outside North America and approximately
    36 percent of our estimated proved oil and gas reserves on
    December 31, 2007 were located outside North America. As a
    result, we face political and economic risks and other
    uncertainties that are more prevalent than our North American
    operations. Such factors include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general strikes and civil unrest;




 



     
        • 

    
    the risk of war, acts of terrorism, expropriation, forced
    renegotiation or modification of existing contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    import and export regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and
    retroactive tax claims, and investment restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    price control;




 



     
        • 

    
    transportation regulations and tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    constrained natural gas markets dependent on demand in a single
    or limited geographical area;




 



     
        • 

    
    exchange controls, currency fluctuations, devaluation or other
    activities that limit or disrupt markets and restrict payments
    or the movement of funds;




 



     
        • 

    
    laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade,
    including trade sanctions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of being subject to exclusive jurisdiction of
    foreign courts in connection with legal disputes relating to
    licenses to operate and concession rights in countries where we
    currently operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the
    jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in enforcing our rights against a governmental
    agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign
    sovereignty over international operations.





 


    Foreign countries have occasionally asserted rights to oil and
    gas properties through border disputes. If a country claims
    superior rights to oil and gas leases or concessions granted to
    us by another country, our interests



    
    15



 




    could decrease in value or be lost. Even our smaller
    international assets may affect our overall business and results
    of operations by distracting management’s attention from
    our more significant assets. Various regions of the world have a
    history of political and economic instability. This instability
    could result in new governments or the adoption of new policies
    that might result in a substantially more hostile attitude
    toward foreign investment. In an extreme case, such a change
    could result in termination of contract rights and expropriation
    of foreign-owned assets. This could adversely affect our
    interests and our future profitability.


 


    The impact that future terrorist attacks or regional hostilities
    may have on the oil and gas industry in general, and on our
    operations in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty
    surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign
    may affect operations in unpredictable ways, including
    disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and
    the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including
    pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and
    refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties
    of, an act of terror or war. We may be required to incur
    significant costs in the future to safeguard our assets against
    terrorist activities.


 


    On December 23, 2004, Apache entered into a
    20-year
    insurance contract with the Overseas Private Investment
    Corporation (OPIC) which provides $300 million of political
    risk insurance for the Company’s Egyptian operations. This
    policy insures us against (1) non-payment by EGPC of
    arbitral awards covering amounts owed Apache on past due
    invoices and (2) expropriation of exportable petroleum when
    actions taken by the Government of Egypt prevent Apache from
    exporting our share of production.


 


    The Company also purchases multi-year commercial political risk
    insurance contracts from highly rated international insurers
    covering portions of its investments in Egypt and Argentina. The
    insurance provides coverage for confiscation, nationalization,
    and expropriation risks and currency inconvertibility. Effective
    March 23, 2007, the Company entered into an additional
    multi-year insurance contract with OPIC to provide
    $200 million of coverage for Egypt in excess of the
    commercial insurance program.


 



    We
    have limited control over the activities on properties we do not
    operate


 


    Other companies operate some of the properties in which we have
    an interest. We have limited ability to influence or control the
    operation or future development of these non-operated properties
    or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to
    fund with respect to them. Our dependence on the operator and
    other working interest owners for these projects and our limited
    ability to influence or control the operation and future
    development of these properties could materially adversely
    affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital and
    lead to unexpected future costs.


 



    Material
    differences between the estimated and actual timing of critical
    events may affect the completion and commencement of production
    from development projects


 


    We are involved in several large development projects whose
    completion may be delayed beyond our anticipated completion
    dates. Our projects may be delayed by project approvals from
    joint venture partners; timely issuances of permits and licenses
    by governmental agencies; weather conditions; manufacturing and
    delivery schedules of critical equipment; and other unforeseen
    events. Delays and differences between estimate and actual
    timing of critical events may adversely affect our forward
    looking statements related to large development projects, and
    our ability to participate in large scale development projects
    in the future.


 



    Our
    operations are sensitive to currency rate
    fluctuations


 


    Our operations are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar with
    the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the British
    Pound. Our financial statements, presented in U.S. dollars,
    are affected by foreign currency fluctuations through both
    translation risk and transaction risk. Volatility in exchanges
    rates may adversely affect our results of operation,
    particularly by a weakening U.S. dollar relative to other
    currencies.



    
    16



 





    Weather
    and climate may have a significant impact on our revenues and
    productivity


 


    Demand for oil and natural gas are, to a significant degree,
    dependent on weather and climate, which impacts the price we
    receive for the commodities we produce. In addition, our
    exploration and development activities and equipment can be
    adversely affected by severe weather, such as hurricanes in the
    Gulf of Mexico or cyclones offshore Australia, which may cause a
    loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost
    or damaged equipment. While our planning for normal climatic
    variation, insurance program, and emergency recovery plans
    mitigate the effects of the weather, not all such effects can be
    predicted, eliminated or insured against.


 



    Costs
    incurred related to environmental matters


 


    We, as an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas
    properties, are subject to various federal, provincial, state,
    local and foreign country laws and regulations relating to
    discharge of materials into, and protection of the environment.
    These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose
    liability on the lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost
    of pollution
    clean-up
    resulting from operations, subject the lessee to liability for
    pollution damages, and require suspension or cessation of
    operations in affected areas.


 


    We have made and will continue to make expenditures in our
    efforts to comply with these requirements, which we believe are
    necessary business costs in the oil and gas industry. We have
    established policies for continuing compliance with
    environmental laws and regulations, including regulations
    applicable to our operations in all countries in which we do
    business. We also have established operational procedures and
    training programs designed to minimize the environmental impact
    of our field facilities. Apache manages its exposure to
    environmental liabilities on properties to be acquired by
    identifying existing problems and assessing the potential
    liability. The costs incurred by these policies and procedures
    are inextricably connected to normal operating expenses such
    that we are unable to separate the expenses related to
    environmental matters; however, we do not believe any such
    additional expenses are material to our financial position or
    results of operations.


 


    The Company also conducts periodic reviews, on a company-wide
    basis, to identify changes in its environmental risk profile.
    These reviews evaluate whether there is a probable liability,
    its amount, and the likelihood that the liability will be
    incurred. The amount of any potential liability is determined by
    considering, among other matters, incremental direct costs of
    any likely remediation and the proportionate cost of our
    employees who are expected to devote a significant amount of
    time to any possible remediation effort. Our general policy is
    to limit any reserve additions to incidents or sites that are
    considered probable to result in an expected remediation cost
    exceeding $300,000.


 


    We maintain insurance coverage, which we believe is customary in
    the industry, although we are not fully insured against all
    environmental risks. As described in Note 9 —
    Commitments and Contingencies of Item 15, in this
    Form 10-K,
    on December 31, 2007, we had an accrued liability of
    $28 million for environmental remediation. We have not
    incurred any material environmental remediation costs in any of
    the periods presented and we are not aware of any future
    environmental remediation matters that would be material to our
    financial position or results of operations.


 


    Although environmental requirements have a substantial impact
    upon the energy industry, generally these requirements do not
    appear to affect us any differently, or to any greater or lesser
    extent, than other upstream companies in the industry. We do not
    believe that compliance with federal, provincial, state, local
    or foreign country provisions regulating the discharge of
    materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the
    protection of the environment, will have a material adverse
    effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
    position of Apache or its subsidiaries; however, there is no
    assurance that changes in or additions to laws or regulations
    regarding the protection of the environment will not have such
    an impact.


 



    Industry
    competition


 


    Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas
    exploration and production industry. We compete with major
    integrated and other independent oil and gas companies for
    acquisition of oil and gas leases, properties and reserves,
    equipment and labor required to explore, develop and operate
    those properties and the marketing of oil and natural gas
    production. Higher recent crude oil and natural gas prices have
    increased the costs of properties



    
    17



 




    available for acquisition and the number of companies with the
    financial resources to pursue acquisition opportunities. Many of
    our competitors have financial and other resources substantially
    larger than we possess and have established strategic long-term
    positions and maintain strong governmental relationships in
    countries in which we may seek new entry. As a consequence, we
    may be at a competitive disadvantage in bidding for drilling
    rights. In addition, many of our larger competitors may have a
    competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect
    demand for oil and natural gas production, such as changing
    worldwide prices and levels of production, the cost and
    availability of alternative fuels and the application of
    government regulations. We also compete in attracting and
    retaining personnel, including geologists, geo-physicists,
    engineers and other specialists.


 



    Insurance
    does not cover all risks


 


    Exploration for and production of oil and natural gas can be
    hazardous, involving unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts,
    cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can result in
    damage to or destruction of wells or production facilities,
    injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property or the
    environment. We maintain insurance against certain losses or
    liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with
    customary industry practices and in amounts that management
    believes to be prudent; however, insurance is not available to
    us against all operational risks.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B