ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Our business activities and the value of our securities are
    subject to significant hazards and risks, including those
    described below. If any of such events should occur, our
    business, financial condition, liquidity
    and/or
    results of operations could be materially harmed, and holders
    and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their
    investments. Additional risks relating to our securities may be
    included in the prospectuses for securities we issue in the
    future.


 



    Future
    economic conditions in the U.S. and key international markets
    may materially adversely impact our operating
    results.


 


    The U.S. and other world economies are slowly recovering
    from a recession that began in 2008 and extended into 2009.
    Growth has resumed but is modest. There are likely to be
    significant long-term effects resulting from the recession and
    credit market crisis, including a future global economic growth
    rate that is slower than we have experienced in recent years. In
    addition, more volatility may occur before a sustainable growth
    rate is achieved. Global economic growth drives demand for
    energy from all sources, including fossil fuels. A lower future
    economic growth rate could result in decreased demand growth for
    our crude oil and natural gas production as well as lower
    commodity prices, which would reduce our cash flows from
    operations and our profitability.


 



    Crude
    oil and natural gas prices are volatile and a substantial
    reduction in these prices could adversely affect our results and
    the price of our common stock.


 


    Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth depend
    highly upon the prices we receive for our crude oil and natural
    gas production. Historically, the markets for crude oil and
    natural gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be
    volatile in the future. For example, the NYMEX daily settlement
    price for the prompt month oil contract in 2009 ranged from a
    high of $81.37 per barrel to a low of $33.98 per barrel. The
    NYMEX daily settlement price for the prompt month natural gas
    contract in 2009 ranged from a high of $6.07 per MMBtu to a low
    of $2.51 per MMBtu. The market prices for crude oil and natural
    gas depend on factors beyond our control. These factors include
    demand for crude oil and natural gas, which fluctuates with
    changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil and natural gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations;







    
    21



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    political conditions and events (including instability or armed
    conflict) in crude oil or natural gas producing regions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the level of global crude oil and natural gas inventories;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and level of imported foreign crude oil and natural
    gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of alternative fuels, including coal
    and biofuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of pipeline capacity and infrastructure;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of crude oil transportation and refining
    capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    electricity generation;




 



     
        • 

    
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the overall economic environment.





 


    Significant declines in crude oil and natural gas prices for an
    extended period may have the following effects on our business:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    limiting our financial condition, liquidity,
    and/or
    ability to fund planned capital expenditures and operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    reducing the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can
    produce economically;




 



     
        • 

    
    causing us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects;




 



     
        • 

    
    reducing our revenues, operating income and cash flows;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our access to sources of capital, such as equity and
    long-term debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    a reduction in the carrying value of our crude oil and natural
    gas properties; or




 



     
        • 

    
    a reduction in the carrying value of goodwill.





 


    We recorded asset impairment charges during 2009. If commodity
    prices decline during 2010, there could be additional
    impairments of our oil and gas assets or other investments or an
    impairment of goodwill.


 



    Our
    ability to sell natural gas or oil and/or receive market prices
    for our natural gas or oil may be adversely affected by pipeline
    and gathering system capacity constraints and various
    transportation interruptions.


 


    A portion of our natural gas and oil production in any region
    may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous
    reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents,
    loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues
    or strikes, or capital constraints that limit the ability of
    third parties to construct gathering systems, processing
    facilities or interstate pipelines to transport our production,
    or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market
    conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is
    interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily adversely
    affect our cash flow.


 



    Weather
    and climate may have a significant adverse impact on our
    revenues and productivity.


 


    Demand for oil and natural gas are, to a significant degree,
    dependent on weather and climate, which impact the price we
    receive for the commodities we produce. In addition, our
    exploration and development activities and equipment can be
    adversely affected by severe weather, such as hurricanes in the
    Gulf of Mexico or cyclones offshore Australia, which may cause a
    loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost
    or damaged equipment. Our planning for normal climatic
    variation, insurance programs, and emergency recovery plans may
    inadequately mitigate the effects of such weather, and not all
    such effects can be predicted, eliminated or insured against.




    
    22



Table of Contents






    Our
    commodity price risk management and trading activities may
    prevent us from benefiting fully from price increases and may
    expose us to other risks.


 


    To the extent that we engage in price risk management activities
    to protect ourselves from commodity price declines, we may be
    prevented from realizing the full benefits of price increases
    above the levels of the derivative instruments used to manage
    price risk. In addition, our hedging arrangements may expose us
    to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances,
    including instances in which:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our production falls short of the hedged volumes;




 



     
        • 

    
    there is a widening of price-basis differentials between
    delivery points for our production and the delivery point
    assumed in the hedge arrangement;




 



     
        • 

    
    the counterparties to our hedging or other price risk management
    contracts fail to perform under those arrangements; or




 



     
        • 

    
    a sudden unexpected event materially impacts oil and natural gas
    prices.





 



    The
    credit risk of financial institutions could adversely affect
    us.


 


    We have exposure to different counterparties, and we have
    entered into transactions with counterparties in the financial
    services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks,
    insurance companies, other investment funds and other
    institutions. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the
    event of default of our counterparty. Deterioration in the
    credit markets may impact the credit ratings of our current and
    potential counterparties and affect their ability to fulfill
    their existing obligations to us and their willingness to enter
    into future transactions with us. We have exposure to these
    financial institutions in the form of derivative transactions in
    connection with our hedges. We also maintain insurance policies
    with insurance companies to protect us against certain risks
    inherent in our business. In addition, if any lender under our
    credit facility is unable to fund its commitment, our liquidity
    will be reduced by an amount up to the aggregate amount of such
    lender’s commitment under our credit facility.


 



    We are
    exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of our
    receivables.


 


    We are exposed to risk of financial loss from trade, joint
    venture, joint interest billing and other receivables. We sell
    our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs to a variety of purchasers.
    As operator, we pay expenses and bill our non-operating partners
    for their respective shares of costs. Some of our purchasers and
    non-operating partners may experience liquidity problems and may
    not be able to meet their financial obligations. Nonperformance
    by a trade creditor or non-operating partner could result in
    significant financial losses.


 



    A
    downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost
    of and ability to access capital.


 


    We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in
    the United States. Factors that may impact our credit ratings
    include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and
    near-term and long-term production growth opportunities.
    Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, reserve mix and
    commodity pricing levels could also be considered by the rating
    agencies. Apache’s senior unsecured long-term debt is
    currently rated A3 by Moody’s, A- by Standard &
    Poor’s and A- by Fitch. The Company has received short-term
    debt ratings for its commercial paper program of
    P-2 from
    Moody’s,
    A-2 from
    Standard & Poor’s and F2 from Fitch. In September
    2009 Fitch downgraded Apache’s senior unsecured long-term
    debt and short-term debt from A and F1 to A- and F2,
    respectively. The current outlook at all three rating agencies
    is stable. A further ratings downgrade could adversely impact
    our ability to access debt markets in the future, increase the
    cost of future debt and potentially require the Company to post
    letters of credit in certain circumstances.


 



    Market
    conditions may restrict our ability to obtain funds for future
    development and working capital needs, which may limit our
    financial flexibility.


 


    During 2009 credit markets recovered but remain vulnerable to
    unpredictable shocks. We have a significant development project
    inventory and an extensive exploration portfolio, which will
    require substantial future investment. We
    and/or our
    partners may need to seek financing in order to fund these or
    other future activities.





    
    23



Table of Contents





    Our future access to capital, as well as that of our partners
    and contractors, could be limited if the debt or equity markets
    are constrained. This could significantly delay development of
    our property interests.


 



    Discoveries
    or acquisitions of additional reserves are needed to avoid a
    material decline in reserves and production.


 


    The production rate from oil and gas properties generally
    declines as reserves are depleted, while related
    per-unit
    production costs generally increase as a result of decreasing
    reservoir pressures and other factors. Therefore, unless we add
    reserves through exploration and development activities or,
    through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe
    zones, secondary recovery reserves or tertiary recovery
    reserves, or acquire additional properties containing proved
    reserves, our estimated proved reserves will decline materially
    as reserves are produced. Future oil and gas production is,
    therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in
    acquiring or finding additional reserves on an economic basis.
    Furthermore, if oil or gas prices increase, our cost for
    additional reserves could also increase.


 



    We may
    not realize an adequate return on wells that we
    drill.


 


    Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the
    risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or
    gas reservoirs. The wells we drill or participate in may not be
    productive, and we may not recover all or any portion of our
    investment in those wells. The seismic data and other
    technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior
    to drilling a well that crude or natural gas is present or may
    be produced economically. The costs of drilling, completing and
    operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may
    be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of
    factors including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering;




 



     
        • 

    
    marine risks such as capsizing, collisions and hurricanes;




 



     
        • 

    
    other adverse weather conditions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increase in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the
    availability of, drilling rigs and equipment.





 


    Future drilling activities may not be successful and, if
    unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our
    future results of operations and financial condition. While all
    drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these
    risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes
    or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.


 



    Material
    differences between the estimated and actual timing of critical
    events may affect the completion and commencement of production
    from development projects.


 


    We are involved in several large development projects whose
    completion may be delayed beyond our anticipated completion
    dates. Our projects may be delayed by project approvals from
    joint venture partners, timely issuances of permits and licenses
    by governmental agencies, weather conditions, manufacturing and
    delivery schedules of critical equipment, and other unforeseen
    events. Delays and differences between estimated and actual
    timing of critical events may adversely affect our large
    development projects and our ability to participate in large
    scale development projects in the future.


 



    We may
    fail to fully identify potential problems related to acquired
    reserves or to properly estimate those reserves.


 


    Although we perform a review of properties that we acquire that
    we believe is consistent with industry practices, such reviews
    are inherently incomplete. It generally is not feasible to
    review in depth every individual property involved in each
    acquisition. Ordinarily, we will focus our review efforts on the
    higher-value properties





    
    24



Table of Contents





    and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review
    of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or
    potential problems, nor will it permit us as a buyer to become
    sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully and
    accurately their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not
    always be performed on every well, and environmental problems,
    such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily
    observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when
    problems are identified, we often assume certain environmental
    and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired
    properties. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in
    estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and future
    production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired
    properties, and actual results may vary substantially from those
    assumed in the estimates. In addition, there can be no assurance
    that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon our
    operating results, particularly during the periods in which the
    operations of acquired businesses are being integrated into our
    ongoing operations.


 



    Crude
    oil and natural gas reserves are estimates, and actual
    recoveries may vary significantly.


 


    There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude
    oil and natural gas reserves and their value, including factors
    that are beyond our control. Reservoir engineering is a
    subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of
    crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact
    manner. In accordance with the SEC’s revisions to rules for
    oil and gas reserves reporting, which we adopted effective
    December 31, 2009, our reserves estimates are based on
    12-month
    average prices, except where contractual arrangements exist;
    therefore, reserves quantities will change when actual prices
    increase or decrease. The estimates depend on a number of
    factors and assumptions that may vary considerably from actual
    results, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    historical production from the area compared with production
    from other areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies,
    including the impact of the SEC’s new oil and gas company
    reserves reporting requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    assumptions concerning future crude oil and natural gas prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    future operating costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    severance and excise taxes;




 



     
        • 

    
    development costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    workover and remediation costs.





 


    For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable
    quantities of crude oil and natural gas attributable to any
    particular group of properties, classifications of those
    reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future
    net cash flows expected from them prepared by different
    engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may
    vary substantially. Accordingly, reserves estimates may be
    subject to upward or downward adjustment, and actual production,
    revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves likely
    will vary, possibly materially, from estimates.


 


    Additionally, because some of our reserves estimates are
    calculated using volumetric analysis, those estimates are less
    reliable than the estimates based on a lengthy production
    history. Volumetric analysis involves estimating the volume of a
    reservoir based on the net feet of pay of the structure and an
    estimation of the area covered by the structure. In addition,
    realization or recognition of proved undeveloped reserves will
    depend on our development schedule and plans. A change in future
    development plans for proved undeveloped reserves could cause
    the discontinuation of the classification of these reserves as
    proved.


 



    Certain
    of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that
    will expire over the next several years unless production is
    established on units containing the acreage.


 


    A sizeable portion of our acreage is currently undeveloped.
    Unless production in paying quantities is established on units
    containing certain of these leases during their terms, the
    leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right
    to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these
    areas are subject to change based upon various factors,
    including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the
    availability and cost of





    
    25



Table of Contents





    capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling
    services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline
    transportation constraints and regulatory approvals.


 



    We may
    incur significant costs related to environmental
    matters.


 


    As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties, we
    are subject to various federal, provincial, state, local and
    foreign country laws and regulations relating to discharge of
    materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws
    and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on the
    lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost of pollution
    clean-up
    resulting from operations, subject the lessee to liability for
    pollution damages and require suspension or cessation of
    operations in affected areas. Our efforts to limit our exposure
    to such liability and cost may prove inadequate and result in
    significant adverse affect on our results of operations. In
    addition, it is possible that the increasingly strict
    requirements imposed by environmental laws and enforcement
    policies could require us to make significant capital
    expenditures. Such capital expenditures could adversely impact
    our cash flows and our financial condition.


 



    Our
    North American operations are subject to governmental risks that
    may impact our operations.


 


    Our North American operations have been, and at times in the
    future may be, affected by political developments and by
    federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations such
    as restrictions on production, changes in taxes, royalties and
    other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies,
    price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection
    laws and regulations. New political developments, laws and
    regulations may adversely impact our results on operations.


 



    Pending
    regulations related to emissions and the impact of any changes
    in climate could adversely impact our business.


 


    Legislation is pending in a number of countries where Apache
    operates including Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and the
    United States, that, if enacted, could tax or assess some form
    of greenhouse gas (GHG) related fees on Company operations and
    could lead to increased operating expenses. Such legislation, if
    enacted, could also potentially cause the Company to make
    significant capital investments for infrastructure
    modifications. Through 2009, only two of the jurisdictions in
    which the Company has operations, Alberta, Canada and the United
    Kingdom (European Union), have enacted legislation which exposes
    the Company to financial payments related to GHG emissions from
    production facilities. This exposure has not been material to
    date.


 


    Furthermore, various governmental entities in countries where
    Apache operates have discussed regulatory initiatives that
    could, if adopted, require the Company to modify existing or
    planned infrastructure to meet GHG emissions performance
    standards and necessitate significant capital expenditures. At
    some level, the cost of performance standards may force the
    early retirement of smaller production facilities, which in
    aggregate may have a material adverse effect on Apache’s
    business.


 


    Several of the countries we operate in are signatories to
    current international accords related to climate change, such as
    the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on
    Climate Change. Given the current implementation of the Kyoto
    Protocol, we do not expect it to have a material impact on the
    Company.


 


    Several indirect consequences of regulation and business trends
    have potential to impact us. Taxes or fees on carbon emissions
    could lead to decreased demand for fossil fuels. Consumers may
    prefer alternative products and unknown technological
    innovations may make oil and gas less significant energy sources.


 


    In the event the predictions for rising temperatures and sea
    levels suggested by reports of the United Nations
    Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change do transpire, we do
    not believe those events by themselves are likely to impact the
    Company’s assets or operations. However, any increase in
    severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our
    assets and operations.




    
    26



Table of Contents






    The
    proposed U.S. federal budget for fiscal year 2011 includes
    certain provisions that, if passed as originally submitted, will
    have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of
    operations, and cash flows.


 


    On February 1, 2010, the Office of Management and Budget
    released a summary of the proposed U.S. federal budget for
    fiscal year 2011. The proposed budget repeals many tax
    incentives and deductions that are currently used by
    U.S. oil and gas companies and imposes new taxes. The
    provisions include: elimination of the ability to fully deduct
    intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; increases in the
    taxation of foreign source income; repeal of the manufacturing
    tax deduction for oil and natural gas companies; and an increase
    in the geological and geophysical amortization period for
    independent producers. Should some or all of these provisions
    become law, our taxes will increase, potentially significantly,
    which would have a negative impact on our net income and cash
    flows. This could also reduce our drilling activities in the
    U.S. Since none of these proposals have yet to be voted on
    or become law, we do not know the ultimate impact these proposed
    changes may have on our business.


 



    Proposed
    federal regulation regarding hydraulic fracturing could increase
    our operating and capital costs.


 


    Several proposals are before the U.S. Congress that, if
    implemented, would either prohibit the practice of hydraulic
    fracturing or subject the process to regulation under the Safe
    Drinking Water Act. We routinely use fracturing techniques in
    the U.S. and other regions to expand the available space
    for natural gas to migrate toward the well-bore. It is typically
    done at substantial depths in very tight formations.


 


    Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final
    outcome of the legislation regarding hydraulic fracturing, any
    new federal restrictions on hydraulic fracturing that may be
    imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in
    increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions
    in the U.S.


 



    International
    operations have uncertain political, economic and other
    risks.


 


    Our operations outside North America are based primarily in
    Egypt, Australia, the United Kingdom and Argentina. On a barrel
    equivalent basis, approximately 52 percent of our 2009
    production was outside North America and approximately
    38 percent of our estimated proved oil and gas reserves on
    December 31, 2009 were located outside North America. As a
    result, a significant portion of our production and resources
    are subject to the increased political and economic risks and
    other factors associated with international operations
    including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general strikes and civil unrest;




 



     
        • 

    
    the risk of war, acts of terrorism, expropriation and resource
    nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of
    existing contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    import and export regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and
    retroactive tax claims, and investment restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    price control;




 



     
        • 

    
    transportation regulations and tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    constrained natural gas markets dependent on demand in a single
    or limited geographical area;




 



     
        • 

    
    exchange controls, currency fluctuations, devaluation or other
    activities that limit or disrupt markets and restrict payments
    or the movement of funds;




 



     
        • 

    
    laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade,
    including trade sanctions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of being subject to exclusive jurisdiction of
    foreign courts in connection with legal disputes relating to
    licenses to operate and concession rights in countries where we
    currently operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible inability to subject foreign persons, especially
    foreign oil ministries and national oil companies, to the
    jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and







    
    27



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in enforcing our rights against a governmental
    agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign
    sovereignty over international operations.





 


    Foreign countries have occasionally asserted rights to oil and
    gas properties through border disputes. If a country claims
    superior rights to oil and gas leases or concessions granted to
    us by another country, our interests could decrease in value or
    be lost. Even our smaller international assets may affect our
    overall business and results of operations by distracting
    management’s attention from our more significant assets.
    Various regions of the world in which we operate have a history
    of political and economic instability. This instability could
    result in new governments or the adoption of new policies that
    might result in a substantially more hostile attitude toward
    foreign investments such as ours. In an extreme case, such a
    change could result in termination of contract rights and
    expropriation of our assets. This could adversely affect our
    interests and our future profitability.


 


    The impact that future terrorist attacks or regional hostilities
    may have on the oil and gas industry in general, and on our
    operations in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty
    surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign
    may affect operations in unpredictable ways, including
    disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and
    the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including
    pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and
    refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties
    of, an act of terror or war. We may be required to incur
    significant costs in the future to safeguard our assets against
    terrorist activities.


 



    Our
    operations are sensitive to currency rate
    fluctuations.


 


    Our operations are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and
    the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the British
    Pound. Our financial statements, presented in U.S. dollars,
    are affected by foreign currency fluctuations through both
    translation risk and transaction risk. Volatility in exchange
    rates may adversely affect our results of operation,
    particularly through the weakening of the U.S. dollar
    relative to other currencies.


 



    We
    face strong industry competition that may have a significant
    negative impact on our result of operations.


 


    Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas
    exploration and production industry. We compete with major
    integrated and other independent oil and gas companies for
    acquisition of oil and gas leases, properties and reserves,
    equipment and labor required to explore, develop and operate
    those properties and marketing of oil and natural gas
    production. Crude oil and natural gas prices impact the costs of
    properties available for acquisition and the number of companies
    with the financial resources to pursue acquisition
    opportunities. Many of our competitors have financial and other
    resources substantially larger than we possess and have
    established strategic long-term positions and maintain strong
    governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek new
    entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage
    in bidding for drilling rights. In addition, many of our larger
    competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to
    factors that affect demand for oil and natural gas production,
    such as fluctuating worldwide commodity prices and levels of
    production, the cost and availability of alternative fuels and
    the application of government regulations. We also compete in
    attracting and retaining personnel, including geologists,
    geophysicists, engineers and other specialists. These
    competitive pressures may have a significant negative impact on
    our results of operations.


 



    Our
    insurance policies do not cover all of the risks we face, which
    could result in significant financial exposure.


 


    Exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas can
    be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other events such
    as blowouts, cratering, fire and explosion and loss of well
    control which can result in damage to or destruction of wells or
    production facilities, injury to persons, loss of life, or
    damage to property and the environment. Our international
    operations are also subject to political risk. The insurance
    coverage that we maintain against certain losses or liabilities
    arising from our operations may be inadequate to cover any such
    resulting liability; moreover, insurance is not available to us
    against all operational risks.




    
    28



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1B