ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Our business activities and the value of our securities are
    subject to significant hazards and risks, including those
    described below. If any of such events should occur, our
    business, financial condition, liquidity
    and/or
    results of operations could be materially harmed, and holders
    and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their
    investments. Additional risks relating to our securities may be
    included in the prospectuses for securities we issue in the
    future.


 



    Our
    profitability and the carrying value of our properties is highly
    dependent on the prices of crude oil, natural gas and natural
    gas liquids, which have historically been very
    volatile


 


    Our estimated proved reserves, revenues, profitability,
    operating cash flows and future rate of growth are highly
    dependent on the prices of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs,
    which are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These
    prices have historically been very volatile and are likely to
    remain volatile in the future. A significant and extended
    downward trend in commodity prices would have a material adverse
    effect on our revenues, profitability and cash flow and could
    result in a reduction in the carrying value of our oil and gas
    properties and the amounts of our estimated proved oil and gas
    reserves. To the extent that we have not hedged our production
    with derivative contracts or fixed-price contracts, any
    significant and extended decline in oil and natural gas prices
    adversely affects our financial position.


 


    Under the full-cost method of accounting as allowed by the SEC,
    the Company is required to review the carrying value of its
    proved oil and gas properties each quarter on a
    country-by-country
    basis. Under these rules, capitalized costs of proved oil and
    gas properties, net of accumulated DD&A and deferred income
    taxes, may not exceed the present value of estimated future net
    cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves, discounted
    10 percent, net of related tax effects. These rules
    generally require pricing future oil and gas production at the
    unescalated oil and gas prices in effect at the end of each
    fiscal quarter and require a write-down if the
    “ceiling” is exceeded, even if prices declined for
    only a short period of time. The Company recorded a
    $5.3 billion ($3.6 billion net of tax) non-cash
    write-down of the carrying value of the Company’s U.S.,
    U.K. North Sea, Canadian and Argentine proved oil and gas
    properties as of December 31, 2008, as a result of the
    ceiling test limitations. If oil and gas prices deteriorate from
    the Company’s year-end realized prices, it is likely that
    additional write-downs will occur in 2009.


 



    A
    downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost
    of and ability to access capital


 


    We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in
    the United States. Factors that may impact our credit ratings
    include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and
    near-term and long-term production growth opportunities.
    Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, reserve mix and
    commodity pricing levels could also be considered by the rating
    agencies. Apache’s senior unsecured long-term debt is
    currently rated A3 by Moody’s, A- by Standard &
    Poor’s and A by Fitch. Apache’s short-term debt rating
    for its commercial paper program is currently P-2 by
    Moody’s, A-2 by Standard & Poor’s and F1 by
    Fitch. The outlook is stable from Moody’s and Standard
    & Poor’s and negative from Fitch. A ratings downgrade
    could adversely impact our ability to access debt markets in



    
    15



Table of Contents




    the future, increase the cost of future debt and potentially
    require the Company to post letters of credit in certain
    circumstances.


 



    Declining
    general economic, business or industry conditions may have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity
    and financial condition


 


    Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical
    issues, the availability and cost of credit, the United States
    mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United
    States have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and
    diminished expectations for the global economy.


 


    These factors, combined with volatile oil, natural gas and NGLs
    prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased
    unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and a
    recession. Concerns about global economic growth have had a
    significant adverse impact on global financial markets and
    commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States
    or abroad continues to deteriorate, demand for petroleum
    products could continue to diminish, which could impact the
    price at which we can sell our oil, natural gas and NGLs, affect
    our vendors, suppliers and customers ability to continue
    operations, and ultimately, adversely impact our results of
    operations, liquidity and financial condition.


 



    Our
    commodity price risk management and trading activities may
    prevent us from benefiting fully from price increases and may
    expose us to other risks


 


    To the extent that we engage in price risk management activities
    to protect ourselves from commodity price declines, we may be
    prevented from realizing the full benefits of price increases
    above the levels of the derivative instruments used to manage
    price risk. In addition, our hedging arrangements may expose us
    to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances,
    including instances in which:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our production falls short of the hedged volumes;




 



     
        • 

    
    there is a widening of price basis differentials between
    delivery points for our production and the delivery point
    assumed in the hedge arrangement;




 



     
        • 

    
    the counterparties to our hedging or other price risk management
    contracts fail to perform under those arrangements; or




 



     
        • 

    
    a sudden unexpected event materially impacts oil and natural gas
    prices.





 



    The
    credit risk of financial institutions could adversely affect
    us


 


    We have exposure to different counterparties, and we have
    entered into transactions with counterparties in the financial
    services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks,
    insurance companies, other investment funds and other
    institutions. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the
    event of default of our counterparty. Continued deterioration in
    the credit markets may continue to impact the credit ratings of
    our current and potential counterparties and affect their
    ability to fulfill their existing obligations to us and their
    willingness to enter into future transactions with us. We have
    exposure to these financial institutions in the form of
    derivative transactions in connection with our hedges. We also
    maintain insurance policies with insurance companies to protect
    us against certain risks inherent in our business. In addition,
    if any lender under our credit facility is unable to fund its
    commitment, our liquidity will be reduced by an amount up to the
    aggregate amount of such lender’s commitment under our
    credit facility.


 



    Certain
    of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that
    will expire over the next several years unless production is
    established on units containing the acreage


 


    A sizeable portion of our acreage is currently undeveloped.
    Unless production in paying quantities is established on units
    containing certain of these leases during their terms, the
    leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right
    to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these
    areas are subject to



    
    16



Table of Contents




    change based upon various factors, including drilling results,
    oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of
    capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling
    services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline
    transportation constraints and regulatory approvals.


 



    Our
    ability to sell natural gas and/or receive market prices for our
    gas may be adversely affected by pipeline and gathering system
    capacity constraints and various transportation
    interruptions


 


    A portion of our natural gas and oil production in any region
    may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous
    reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents,
    loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues
    or strikes, or capital constraints that limit the ability of
    third parties to construct gathering systems, processing
    facilities or interstate pipelines to transport our production,
    or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market
    conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is
    interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily adversely
    affect our cash flow.


 



    Acquisitions
    or discoveries of additional reserves are needed to avoid a
    material decline in reserves and production


 


    The production rate from oil and gas properties generally
    declines as reserves are depleted, while related
    per-unit
    production costs generally increase as a result of decreasing
    reservoir pressures and other factors. Therefore, unless we add
    reserves through exploration and development activities or,
    through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe
    zones, secondary recovery reserves or tertiary recovery
    reserves, or acquire additional properties containing proved
    reserves, our estimated proved reserves will decline materially
    as reserves are produced. Future oil and gas production is,
    therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in
    acquiring or finding additional reserves on an economic basis.
    Furthermore, if oil or gas prices increase, our cost for
    additional reserves could also increase.


 



    We may
    not realize an adequate return on wells that we
    drill


 


    Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the
    risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or
    gas reservoirs. The wells we drill or participate in may not be
    productive, and we may not recover all or any portion of our
    investment in those wells. The seismic data and other
    technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior
    to drilling a well that crude or natural gas is present or may
    be produced economically. The costs of drilling, completing and
    operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may
    be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of
    factors including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    unexpected drilling conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    pressure or irregularities in formations;




 



     
        • 

    
    equipment failures or accidents;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering;




 



     
        • 

    
    marine risks such as capsizing, collisions and hurricanes;




 



     
        • 

    
    other adverse weather conditions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increase in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the
    availability of, drilling rigs and equipment.





 


    Future drilling activities may not be successful and, if
    unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our
    future results of operations and financial condition. While all
    drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these
    risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes
    or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.


 



    We may
    fail to fully identify potential problems related to acquired
    reserves or to properly estimate those reserves


 


    Although we perform a review of properties that we acquire that
    we believe is consistent with industry practices, such reviews
    are inherently incomplete. It generally is not feasible to
    review in depth every individual



    
    17



Table of Contents




    property involved in each acquisition. Ordinarily, we will focus
    our review efforts on the higher-value properties and will
    sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records
    and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential
    problems, nor will it permit us as a buyer to become
    sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully and
    accurately their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not
    always be performed on every well, and environmental problems,
    such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily
    observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when
    problems are identified, we often assume certain environmental
    and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired
    properties. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in
    estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and future
    production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired
    properties, and actual results may vary substantially from those
    assumed in the estimates. In addition, there can be no assurance
    that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon our
    operating results, particularly during the periods in which the
    operations of acquired businesses are being integrated into our
    ongoing operations.


 



    Our
    North American operations are subject to governmental risks that
    may impact our operations


 


    Our North American operations have been, and at times in the
    future may be, affected by political developments and by
    federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations such
    as restrictions on production, changes in taxes, royalties and
    other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies,
    price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection
    laws and regulations. New political developments, laws and
    regulations may adversely impact our results on operations.


 



    International
    operations have uncertain political, economic and other
    risks


 


    Our operations outside North America are based primarily in
    Egypt, Australia, the United Kingdom and Argentina. On a barrel
    equivalent basis, approximately 46 percent of our 2008
    production was outside North America and approximately
    39 percent of our estimated proved oil and gas reserves on
    December 31, 2008 were located outside North America. As a
    result, a significant portion of our production and resources
    are subject to increased political and economic risks and other
    factors including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general strikes and civil unrest;




 



     
        • 

    
    the risk of war, acts of terrorism, expropriation, forced
    renegotiation or modification of existing contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    import and export regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and
    retroactive tax claims, and investment restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    price control;




 



     
        • 

    
    transportation regulations and tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    constrained natural gas markets dependent on demand in a single
    or limited geographical area;




 



     
        • 

    
    exchange controls, currency fluctuations, devaluation or other
    activities that limit or disrupt markets and restrict payments
    or the movement of funds;




 



     
        • 

    
    laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade,
    including trade sanctions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility of being subject to exclusive jurisdiction of
    foreign courts in connection with legal disputes relating to
    licenses to operate and concession rights in countries where we
    currently operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the
    jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in enforcing our rights against a governmental
    agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign
    sovereignty over international operations.





 


    Foreign countries have occasionally asserted rights to oil and
    gas properties through border disputes. If a country claims
    superior rights to oil and gas leases or concessions granted to
    us by another country, our interests could decrease in value or
    be lost. Even our smaller international assets may affect our
    overall business and results of operations by distracting
    management’s attention from our more significant assets.
    Various regions of the world in which we operate have a history
    of political and economic instability. This instability could
    result in new



    
    18



Table of Contents




    governments or the adoption of new policies that might result in
    a substantially more hostile attitude toward foreign investments
    such as ours. In an extreme case, such a change could result in
    termination of contract rights and expropriation of our assets.
    This could adversely affect our interests and our future
    profitability.


 


    The impact that future terrorist attacks or regional hostilities
    may have on the oil and gas industry in general, and on our
    operations in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty
    surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign
    may affect operations in unpredictable ways, including
    disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and
    the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including
    pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and
    refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties
    of, an act of terror or war. We may be required to incur
    significant costs in the future to safeguard our assets against
    terrorist activities.


 



    Material
    differences between the estimated and actual timing of critical
    events may affect the completion and commencement of production
    from development projects


 


    We are involved in several large development projects whose
    completion may be delayed beyond our anticipated completion
    dates. Our projects may be delayed by project approvals from
    joint venture partners; timely issuances of permits and licenses
    by governmental agencies; weather conditions; manufacturing and
    delivery schedules of critical equipment; and other unforeseen
    events. Delays and differences between estimated and actual
    timing of critical events may adversely affect our large
    development projects and our ability to participate in large
    scale development projects in the future.


 



    Our
    operations are sensitive to currency rate
    fluctuations


 


    Our operations are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar with
    the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the British
    Pound. Our financial statements, presented in U.S. dollars,
    are affected by foreign currency fluctuations through both
    translation risk and transaction risk. Volatility in exchange
    rates may adversely affect our results of operation,
    particularly through the weakening of the U.S. dollar
    relative to other currencies.


 



    Weather
    and climate may have a significant adverse impact on our
    revenues and productivity


 


    Demand for oil and natural gas are, to a significant degree,
    dependent on weather and climate, which impact the price we
    receive for the commodities we produce. In addition, our
    exploration and development activities and equipment can be
    adversely affected by severe weather, such as hurricanes in the
    Gulf of Mexico or cyclones offshore Australia, which may cause a
    loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost
    or damaged equipment. Our planning for normal climatic
    variation, insurance programs, and emergency recovery plans may
    inadequately mitigate the effects of such weather, and not all
    such effects can be predicted, eliminated or insured against.


 



    We may
    incur significant costs related to environmental
    matters


 


    As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties, we
    are subject to various federal, provincial, state, local and
    foreign country laws and regulations relating to discharge of
    materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws
    and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on the
    lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost of pollution
    clean-up
    resulting from operations, subject the lessee to liability for
    pollution damages and require suspension or cessation of
    operations in affected areas. Our efforts to limit our exposure
    to such liability and cost may prove inadequate and result in
    significant adverse affect on our results of operations. In
    addition, it is possible that the increasingly strict
    requirements imposed by environmental laws and enforcement
    policies could require us to make significant capital
    expenditures. Such capital expenditures could adversely impact
    our cash flows and our financial condition.


 



    We
    face strong industry competition that may have a significant
    negative impact on our result of operations


 


    Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas
    exploration and production industry. We compete with major
    integrated and other independent oil and gas companies for
    acquisition of oil and gas leases, properties and



    
    19



Table of Contents




    reserves, equipment and labor required to explore, develop and
    operate those properties and marketing of oil and natural gas
    production. Crude oil and natural gas prices impact the costs of
    properties available for acquisition and the number of companies
    with the financial resources to pursue acquisition
    opportunities. Many of our competitors have financial and other
    resources substantially larger than we possess and have
    established strategic long-term positions and maintain strong
    governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek new
    entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage
    in bidding for drilling rights. In addition, many of our larger
    competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to
    factors that affect demand for oil and natural gas production,
    such as fluctuating worldwide commodity prices and levels of
    production, the cost and availability of alternative fuels and
    the application of government regulations. We also compete in
    attracting and retaining personnel, including geologists,
    geo-physicists, engineers and other specialists. These
    competitive pressures may have a significant negative impact on
    our results of operations.


 



    Our
    insurance policies do not cover all risks


 


    Exploration for and production of oil and natural gas can be
    hazardous, involving unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts,
    cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can result in
    damage to or destruction of wells or production facilities,
    injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property or the
    environment. The insurance coverage that we maintain against
    certain losses or liabilities arising from our operations may be
    inadequate to cover any such resulting liability; moreover,
    insurance is not available to us against all operational risks.







 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B