 of this Form 10-K.EMPLOYEESThe Company had approximately 5,700 employees at December 31, 2013.24Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsREGULATORY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERSEnvironmental and Occupational Health and Safety RegulationsAnadarko’s business operations are subject to numerous international, provincial, federal, regional, state, tribal, and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations pertain to the discharge of materials into the environment; the generating, handling, and disposal of materials (including solid and hazardous wastes); the workplace health and safety of employees; or otherwise relating to the prevention, mitigation, or remediation of pollution, or the protection of natural resources, wildlife, or the environment. The more significant of these existing environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations include the following U.S. laws and regulations, as amended from time to time: •the U.S. Clean Air Act, which restricts the emission of air pollutants from many sources and imposes various pre-construction, monitoring, and reporting requirements•the U.S. Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the federal Clean Water Act (CWA), which regulates discharges of pollutants from facilities to state and federal waters•the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA), which subjects owners and operators of vessels, onshore facilities, and pipelines, as well as lessees or permittees of areas in which offshore facilities are located, to strict liability for removal costs and damages arising from an oil spill in waters of the United States•U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI) regulations, which relate to offshore oil and natural-gas operations in U.S. waters and impose liability for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from operations, as well as potential liability for pollution damages•the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, a remedial statute that imposes strict liability on generators, transporters, and arrangers of hazardous substances at sites where hazardous substance releases have occurred or are threatening to occur•the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, which governs the generation, treatment, storage, transport, and disposal of solid wastes, including hazardous wastes•the U.S. Safe Drinking Water Act, which ensures the quality of the nation’s public drinking water through adoption of drinking water standards and controlling the injection of waste fluids into below-ground formations that may adversely affect drinking water sources•the U.S. Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, which requires facilities to disseminate information on chemical inventories to employees as well as local emergency planning committees and response departments•the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act, which establishes workplace standards for the protection of the health and safety of employees, including the implementation of hazard communications programs designed to inform employees about hazardous substances in the workplace, potential harmful effects of these substances, and appropriate control measures•the National Environmental Policy Act, which requires federal agencies, including the DOI, to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to impact the environment and which may require the preparation of Environmental Assessments and more detailed Environmental Impact Statements that may be made available for public review and comment•the Endangered Species Act, which restricts activities that may affect federally identified endangered and threatened species or their habitats through the implementation of operating restrictions or a temporary, seasonal, or permanent ban in affected areas25Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements•the Marine Mammal Protection Act, which ensures the protection of marine mammals through the prohibition, with certain exceptions, of the taking of marine mammals in U.S. waters and by U.S. citizens on the high seas and which may require the implementation of operating restrictions or a temporary, seasonal, or permanent ban in affected areas•the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, which implements various treaties and conventions between the United States and certain other nations for the protection of migratory birds and, pursuant to which the taking, killing or possessing of migratory birds is unlawful without a permit, thereby potentially requiring the implementation of operating restrictions or a temporary, seasonal, or permanent ban in affected areasThese and other laws and their implementing regulations, as well as state counterparts, generally restrict the level of pollutants emitted to ambient air, discharges to surface water, and disposals or other releases to surface and below-ground soils and ground water. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil, and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory, remedial, and corrective action obligations or the incurrence of capital expenditures; the occurrence of delays in the development of projects; and the issuance of injunctions restricting or prohibiting some or all of the Company’s activities in a particular area. Compliance with these laws and regulations also, in most cases, requires new or amended permits that may contain new or more stringent technological standards or limits on emissions, discharges, disposals, or other releases in association with new or modified operations. Application for permits can require an applicant to collect substantial information in connection with the application process, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, there can be delays associated with public notice and comment periods required prior to the issuance or amendment of a permit as well as the agency’s processing of an application. Many of the delays associated with the permitting process are beyond the control of the Company.Many states and foreign countries where the Company operates also have, or are developing, similar environmental laws, regulations, or analogous controls governing many of these same types of activities. While the legal requirements may be similar in form, in some cases the actual implementation of these requirements may impose additional, or more stringent, conditions or controls that can significantly alter or delay the development of a project or substantially increase the cost of doing business.Anadarko is also subject to certain laws and regulations relating to environmental remediation obligations associated with current and past operations.Federal and state occupational safety and health laws require the Company to organize information about materials, some of which may be hazardous or toxic, that are used, released, stored, or produced in Anadarko’s operations. Certain portions of this information must be provided to employees, state and local governmental authorities and responders, and local citizens. The Company is also subject to the safety hazard communication requirements and reporting obligations set forth in federal workplace standards.26Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsThere have been several regulatory and governmental initiatives related to the hydraulic-fracturing process, which could have an adverse impact on our completion or production activities. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act over certain hydraulic-fracturing practices involving diesel notwithstanding the existence of current oil and gas regulations adopted at the state level. Moreover, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with a draft report expected to be available for public comment and peer review by 2014. The EPA has also announced plans to propose effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic-fracturing activities for shale gas. In May 2013, the federal Bureau of Land Management (BLM) published a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands, replacing a prior proposed rulemaking issued in May 2012, that would require public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands, confirmation that wells used in fracturing operations meet appropriate construction standards, and development of appropriate plans for managing flowback water that returns to the surface. Certain other governmental reviews have been recently conducted or are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic-fracturing practices, including an evaluation by the U.S. Department of Energy, and coordination of an administration-wide review of these practices by the White House Council on Environmental Quality. Congress has from time to time considered bills that would regulate hydraulic fracturing and/or require public disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. A number of states, including states in which the Company operates, have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing activities. In addition, local government may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place, and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular; for example, local ballot initiatives in the Colorado cities of Boulder, Broomfield, Fort Collins, and Lafayette to restrict oil and gas development, including the use of hydraulic fracturing, either temporarily or permanently, within their respective city’s limits were approved by voters in November 2013.The ultimate financial impact arising from environmental laws and regulations is neither clearly known nor determinable as new standards, such as air emission standards and water quality standards, continue to evolve. For example, in August 2012, the EPA published final rules under the federal Clean Air Act that subject oil and natural-gas production, processing, transmission, and storage operations to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants programs. With regards to production activities, these final rules require, among other things, the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from fractured gas wells for which well-completion operations are conducted. In 2013, the EPA reconsidered significant storage vessel requirements and will complete further reconsideration and rulemaking in 2014. In addition, environmental laws and regulations, including those that may arise to address concerns about global climate change and the threat of adverse impacts to groundwater arising from hydraulic-fracturing activities, are expected to continue to have an increasing impact on the Company’s operations in the United States and in other countries in which Anadarko operates. Notable areas of potential impacts include air emission monitoring, compliance, mitigation, and remediation obligations in the United States.The Company has reviewed its potential responsibilities under both OPA and CWA as they relate to the Deepwater Horizon events. OPA imposes joint and several liability on the responsible parties for all cleanup and response costs, natural resource damages, and other damages such as lost revenues, damages to real or personal property, damages to subsistence users of natural resources, and lost profits and earning capacity. While OPA requires that a responsible party pay for all cleanup and response costs, it currently limits liability for damages to $75 million, exclusive of response and remediation expenses (for which there is no cap), except in cases of gross negligence, willful misconduct, or the violation of an applicable federal safety, construction, or operating regulation. The federal government may take legislative or other action to increase or eliminate, perhaps even retroactively, the liability cap. As for damages to natural resources, the government may recover damages for injury to, loss of, destruction of, or loss of use of natural resources which may include the costs to repair, replace, or restore those or like resources. The CWA governs discharges into waters of the United States and provides for penalties in the event of unauthorized discharges into those waters. Under the CWA, these include, among other penalties, civil penalties that may be assessed in an amount up to $1,100 per barrel of oil discharged. In cases of gross negligence or willful misconduct, such civil penalties that may be sought by the United States are increased to not more than $4,300 per barrel of oil discharged.27Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsAs of the date of filing this Form 10-K with the SEC, no penalties or fines have been assessed by the federal government against the Company under OPA, CWA, and other similar local, state and federal environmental legislation related to the Deepwater Horizon events. However, in December 2010, the U.S. Department of Justice, on behalf of the United States, filed a civil lawsuit in the U.S. District Court in New Orleans, Louisiana, against several parties, including the Company, seeking (i) an assessment of civil penalties under the CWA in an amount to be determined by the court, and (ii) a declaratory judgment that such parties are jointly and severally liable without limitation under OPA for all removal costs and damages resulting from the Deepwater Horizon events. In October 2011, the Company and BP Exploration & Production Inc. (BP) entered into a settlement agreement, mutual releases, and agreement to indemnify relating to the Deepwater Horizon events (Settlement Agreement), pursuant to which BP has agreed to fully indemnify Anadarko against all claims, causes of action, losses, costs, expenses, liabilities, damages, or judgments of any kind arising out of the Deepwater Horizon events and related damage claims arising under OPA. Under the Settlement Agreement, BP does not indemnify the Company against penalties or fines that may be assessed against the Company as a result of the Deepwater Horizon events, including for example, penalties or fines under the CWA. For additional information, see Note 17—Contingencies—Deepwater Horizon Events in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.The Company has made and will continue to make operating and capital expenditures, some of which may be material, to comply with environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. These are necessary business costs in the Company’s operations and in the oil and natural-gas industry. Although the Company is not fully insured against all environmental and occupational health and safety risks, and the Company’s insurance does not cover any penalties or fines that may be issued by a governmental authority, it maintains insurance coverage that it believes is sufficient based on the Company’s assessment of insurable risks and consistent with insurance coverage held by other similarly situated industry participants. Nevertheless, it is possible that other developments, such as stricter and more comprehensive environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations, as well as claims for damages to property or persons resulting from the Company’s operations, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, including administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, to Anadarko. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with existing environmental and occupational health and safety regulations. Further, the Company believes that the cost of maintaining compliance with these existing laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, but new or more stringently applied existing laws and regulations could increase the cost of doing business, and such increases could be material.Oil Spill-Response PlanDomestically, the Company is subject to compliance with the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) regulations, which, among other standards, require every owner or operator of a U.S. offshore lease to prepare and submit for approval an oil spill-response plan prior to conducting any offshore operations. The submitted plan is required to provide a detailed description of actions to be taken in the event of a spill, identify contracted spill-response equipment, materials and trained personnel, and stipulate the time necessary to deploy identified resources in the event of a spill. The Company has filed the information that describes the Company’s ability to deploy surface and subsea containment resources to adequately and promptly respond to a blowout or other loss of well control. The BSEE regulations may be amended, resulting in changes to the amount and type of spill-response resources to which an owner or operator must maintain ready access. Accordingly, resources available to the Company may change to satisfy any new regulatory requirements, or to adapt to changes in the Company’s operations.Anadarko has in place and maintains both Regional (Central and Western Gulf of Mexico) and Sub-Regional (Eastern Gulf of Mexico) Oil Spill-Response Plans (Plans) for the Company’s Gulf of Mexico operations. The Plans detail procedures for a rapid and effective response to spill events that may occur as a result of Anadarko’s operations. The Plans are reviewed at least annually and updated as necessary. Drills are conducted at least annually to test the effectiveness of the Plans and include the participation of spill-response contractors, representatives of Clean Gulf Associates (CGA, a not-for-profit association of production and pipeline companies operating in the Gulf of Mexico contractually engaged by the Company for such matters), and representatives of relevant governmental agencies. The Plans must be approved by the BSEE.28Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsAs part of the Company’s oil spill-response preparedness, and as set forth in the Plans, Anadarko maintains membership in CGA, and has an employee representative on the executive committee of CGA. CGA was created to provide a means of effectively staging response equipment and to provide effective spill-response capability for its member companies operating in the Gulf of Mexico.CGA equipment includes the following: High Volume Open Sea Skimmer System (HOSS) barge, 95-foot skimming vessels, 46-foot skimming vessels, 56-foot skimming vessels, Marco skimmers, and Egmopol skimmers. Additional available equipment includes the following: fast response units, rope mop, barges, skimming arms, skim packages, and tanks. In addition, auto boom, beach boom, and fire boom are currently available through CGA. CGA also has a stockpile of Corexit 9500 dispersant spray system through Airborne Support Inc. (ASI), a wildlife rehabilitation trailer, and bird scare guns. CGA currently has one X-band radar installed on the HOSS barge.CGA has executed a support contract with T&T Marine to coordinate bareboat charters and provides for expanded response support. T&T Marine is responsible for inspecting, maintaining, storing, and calling out CGA equipment. T&T Marine has positioned CGA’s equipment and materials in a ready state at various staging areas around the Gulf of Mexico.T&T Marine also handles the maintenance and mobilization of CGA non-marine equipment. T&T Marine has service contracts in place with domestic environmental contractors as well as with other companies that provide support services during the execution of spill-response activities. In the event of a spill, T&T Marine will activate these contracts as necessary to provide additional resources or support services requested by CGA. In addition, CGA maintains a service contract with ASI, which provides aircraft and dispersant capabilities for CGA member companies.Anadarko is also a member of the Marine Preservation Association, which provides full access to the Marine Spill Response Corporation (MSRC) cooperative including the Deep Blue enhanced Gulf of Mexico Response capability. In the event of a spill, MSRC stands ready to mobilize all of its equipment and materials. MSRC has a fleet of dedicated Responder Class Oil Spill-Response Vessels (OSRVs), designed and built specifically to recover spilled oil. Each OSRV is approximately 210 feet long, has temporary storage for recovered oil, and has the ability to separate oil and water aboard the vessels using two oil-water separation systems. To enable the OSRV to sustain cleanup operations, recovered oil can be transferred into other vessels or barges.MSRC has equipment housed for the Atlantic Region, the Gulf of Mexico Region, the California Region, and the Pacific Northwest Region. The Gulf of Mexico Region has a total of approximately 60 skimmers with an Effective Daily Recovery Capacity (EDRC) of approximately 562,000 barrels. The California Region has approximately 278,000 barrels EDRC and the Pacific Northwest Region has approximately 335,000 barrels EDRC. Additional available equipment includes the following: OSRVs, fast response vessels, barges, storage bladders, work boats, ocean boom, and dispersant.The Company has also entered into a contractual commitment to access subsea intervention, containment, capture, and shut-in capacity for deepwater exploration wells. Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC) is open to all oil and gas operators in the Gulf of Mexico and provides members access to oil spill-response equipment and services on a per-well fee basis. Anadarko has an employee representative on the executive committee of MWCC and this employee currently serves as its Chair. MWCC members have access to an interim containment system that includes a 15-kpsi capping stack and dispersant capability. The interim containment system is engineered to operate in deepwater depths of up to 10,000 feet, and has the capacity to contain 60 MBbls/d of liquids and flare 120 MMcf/d of natural gas. The DOI has reviewed the functional specifications of the MWCC interim containment system, and DOI input was included in the final specifications.MWCC members also expect to have access to an expanded containment system that is planned for use in deepwater depths of up to 10,000 feet with containment capacity of 100 MBbls/d of liquids and flare capability for 200 MMcf/d of natural gas. The expanded system is planned to include a 15-kpsi subsea containment assembly with three rams stack, dedicated capture vessels, and a dispersant injection system. The expanded containment system may be further expanded with additional capture vessels, modified tankers, drill ships, and extended well-test vessels, all of which may process, store, and offload oil to shuttle tankers, which may then take the oil to shore for further processing. This expanded containment system is currently scheduled for delivery by mid-2014.29Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsAnadarko retains geospatial and satellite imagery services through the MDA Corporation (MDA) to provide coverage over the Company’s Gulf of Mexico operations. MDA owns and maintains two radar satellites, RADARSAT-1 and RADARSAT-2, which provide all-weather surveillance and imagery available to assist in identifying areas of concern on the surface waters of the Gulf of Mexico. The Company has agreements with Waste Management, Inc. and Clean Harbors to assist in the proper disposal of contaminated and hazardous waste soil and debris. In addition, Anadarko has agreements with HDR Engineering, Inc. (HDR) for assistance with Subsea Dispersant applications. Staff members of HDR are recognized as worldwide experts in the proper use of dispersants in a subsea application, developing scientific methods for determining the proper injection, and monitoring of the dispersant while maintaining the environmental and ecosystem integrity and health. The Company also has agreements with TDI-Brooks International for its scientific research vessels to properly monitor the effectiveness of the dispersant application and the health of the ecosystem. The Company also has agreements with Scientific and Environmental Associates, Inc. (SEA) for assistance with surface-dispersant applications. SEA is a scientific support consulting firm providing subject matter experts, and is renowned for its expertise in surface-dispersion applications and efficacy monitoring.Anadarko has emergency and oil spill-response plans in place for each of its exploration and operational activities around the globe. Each plan satisfies the requirements of relevant local or national authority, describes the actions the Company will take in the event of an incident, is subject to drills at least annually, and includes reference to external resources that may become necessary in the event of an incident. Included in these external resources is the Company’s contract with Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), a global emergency and oil spill-response organization headquartered in London. OSRL maintains specialized equipment in a ready state for deployment in the event such equipment is needed by one of its members. OSRL is mainly available for response internationally, but its equipment is registered with the U.S. Coast Guard for domestic use if needed.OSRL has one 727 aircraft, located in the United Kingdom and one Hercules aircraft, located in Singapore, available for dispersant application or equipment transport. The aircraft have a three-hour callback time. The Hercules can transport two to three pre-packaged equipment loads, or one Aerial Dispersant Delivery System (ADDS) Pack. OSRL has three ADDS Packs: one in the United Kingdom, one in Bahrain, and one in Singapore. If additional aircraft are needed, OSRL retains an aircraft broker so that an aircraft can be chartered. For international operations, the majority of equipment will be air freighted.OSRL has a number of active recovery boom systems, and a range of booms that can be used for offshore, nearshore, or shoreline responses. Offshore boom is stored in the United Kingdom, Bahrain, and Singapore. Fireboom systems have been delivered and a team is trained to operate the system. A variety of nearshore boom exists for spill containment.OSRL also provides a range of communications equipment, safety equipment, transfer pumps, dispersant application systems, temporary storage equipment, power packs and generators, small inflatable vessels, rigid inflatable boats, work boats, and Fast Response Vessels. Oleophilic, weir, and mechanical skimmers provide the ability to recover a range of oil types. OSRL also has a wide range of oiled wildlife equipment in conjunction with the Sea Alarm Foundation.During 2013, Clean Caribbean and Americas, a cooperative located in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, was integrated into OSRL and assets now available to OSRL members include an ADDS Pack, dispersant stockpile, and a depot of mechanical containment and recovery systems.In addition, during 2013, a small group of exploration and production companies reached an agreement as a subset of OSRL to develop the Global Dispersant Stockpile of 5,000 cubic meters of dispersant designed to support response efforts for up to 30 days or until the dispersant production facilities could take up production.In addition to Anadarko’s membership in or access to CGA, MSRC, OSRL, and MWCC, the Company participates in industry-wide task forces, which are currently studying improvements in both gaining access to and controlling blowouts in subsea environments. Two such task forces are the Subsea Well Control and Containment Task Force, and the Oil Spill Task Force.30Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsTITLE TO PROPERTIESAs is customary in the oil and gas industry, a preliminary title review is conducted at the time properties believed to be suitable for drilling operations are acquired by the Company. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations, a thorough title examination of the drill site tract is conducted by third-party attorneys and curative work is performed with respect to significant defects, if any, before proceeding with operations. Anadarko believes the title to its leasehold properties is good, defensible, and customary with practices in the oil and gas industry, subject to such exceptions that, in the opinion of legal counsel for the Company, do not materially detract from the use of such properties.Leasehold properties owned by the Company are subject to royalty, overriding royalty, and other outstanding interests customary in the industry. The properties may be subject to burdens such as liens incident to operating agreements, current taxes, development obligations under oil and gas leases and other encumbrances, easements, and restrictions. Anadarko does not believe any of these burdens will materially interfere with its use of these properties.EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTName Age atJanuary 31,2014 PositionR. A. Walker 56 Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerRobert P. Daniels 55 Executive Vice President, International and Deepwater ExplorationRobert G. Gwin 50 Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerJames J. Kleckner 56 Executive Vice President, International and Deepwater OperationsCharles A. Meloy 53 Executive Vice President, U.S. Onshore Exploration and ProductionRobert K. Reeves 56 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative OfficerM. Cathy Douglas 57 Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and ControllerMr. Walker was named Chairman of the Board of the Company in May 2013, in addition to the role of Chief Executive Officer and director, both of which he assumed in May 2012, and the role of President, which he assumed in February 2010. He previously served as Chief Operating Officer from March 2009 until his appointment as Chief Executive Officer. He served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer from September 2005 until March 2009. From August 2007 until March 2013, he served as director of Western Gas Holdings, LLC (WGH), the general partner of WES, and served as its Chairman of the Board from August 2007 to September 2009. Mr. Walker served as a director of Western Gas Equity Holdings, LLC (WGEH), the general partner of WGP, from September 2012 until March 2013. Mr. Walker served as a director of Temple-Inland Inc. from November 2008 to February 2012 and has served as a director of CenterPoint Energy, Inc. since April 2010 and as a director of BOK Financial Corporation since April 2013.Mr. Daniels was named Executive Vice President, International and Deepwater Exploration in May 2013 and previously served as Senior Vice President, International and Deepwater Exploration since July 2012. Prior to these positions, he served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Exploration since December 2006 and served as Senior Vice President, Exploration and Production since May 2004. Prior to that position, he served as Vice President, Canada since July 2001. Mr. Daniels also served in various managerial roles in the Exploration Department for Anadarko Algeria Company, LLC. He has worked for the Company since 1985.Mr. Gwin was named Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in May 2013 and previously served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer since March 2009 and Senior Vice President since March 2008. He also has served as Chairman of the Board of WGH since October 2009 and as a director since August 2007. Additionally, Mr. Gwin has served as Chairman of the Board of WGEH since September 2012, and served as President of WGH from August 2007 to September 2009 and as Chief Executive Officer of WGH from August 2007 to January 2010. He joined Anadarko in January 2006 as Vice President, Finance and Treasurer and served in that capacity until March 2008. He has served as Chairman of the Board of LyondellBasell Industries N.V. since August 2013 and as a director since May 2011.31Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsMr. Kleckner was named Executive Vice President, International and Deepwater Operations in May 2013. Prior to this position, he served as Vice President, Operations for the Rockies region since May 2007. Mr. Kleckner joined Anadarko upon the acquisition of Kerr-McGee Corporation in August 2006. He has held positions of increasing responsibility with Anadarko and Kerr-McGee Corporation, including management roles in the North Sea, South America, China, the Gulf of Mexico and U.S. onshore. Prior to joining Kerr-McGee Corporation, Mr. Kleckner was in the oil and natural-gas industry with Oryx Energy Company and its predecessor, Sun Oil Company. Mr. Meloy was named Executive Vice President, U.S. Onshore Exploration and Production in May 2013 and previously served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Onshore Exploration and Production since July 2012. Prior to this position, he served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations since December 2006 and served as Senior Vice President, Gulf of Mexico and International Operations since the acquisition of Kerr-McGee Corporation in August 2006. Prior to joining Anadarko, he served Kerr-McGee Corporation as Vice President of Exploration and Production from 2005 to 2006, Vice President of Gulf of Mexico Exploration, Production and Development from 2004 to 2005, Vice President and Managing Director of Kerr-McGee North Sea (U.K.) Limited from 2002 to 2004 and Vice President of Gulf of Mexico Deepwater from 2000 to 2002. Prior to joining Kerr-McGee Corporation, Mr. Meloy was in the oil and natural-gas industry with Oryx Energy Company and its predecessor, Sun Oil Company. Mr. Meloy has served as a director of WGH since February 2009 and as a director of WGEH since September 2012.Mr. Reeves was named Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer in May 2013 and previously served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer since February 2007. He also served as Chief Compliance Officer from July 2012 to May 2013. He served as Corporate Secretary from February 2007 to August 2008. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs & Law and Chief Governance Officer since 2004. Prior to joining Anadarko, he served as Executive Vice President, Administration and General Counsel of North Sea New Ventures from 2003 to 2004, and as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Ocean Energy, Inc. and its predecessor companies from 1997 to 2003. He has served as a director of Key Energy Services, Inc., a publicly traded oilfield services company, since October 2007, as a director of WGH since August 2007 and as a director of WGEH since September 2012.Ms. Douglas was named Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller in May 2013. Prior to this position, she served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since November 2008 and served as Corporate Controller from September 2007 to March 2009 and from March 2013 to May 2013. She served as Assistant Controller from July 2006 to September 2007. She also served as Director, Accounting, Policy and Coordination from October 2006 to September 2007 and Financial Reporting and Policy Manager from January 2003 to October 2006. Ms. Douglas joined Anadarko in 1979.Officers of Anadarko are elected each year at the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders, the next of which is expected to occur on May 13, 2014, and hold office until their successors are duly elected and qualified. There are no family relationships between any directors or executive officers of Anadarko.32Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsItem 1A.  Risk FactorsCAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSUnless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Anadarko” and “Company” refer to Anadarko Petroleum Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company has made in this report, and may from time to time make in other public filings, press releases, and management discussions, forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 concerning the Company’s operations, economic performance, and financial condition. These forward-looking statements include information concerning future production and reserves, schedules, plans, timing of development, contributions from oil and gas properties, marketing and midstream activities, and also include those statements preceded by, followed by, or that otherwise include the words “may,” “could,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “estimates,” “projects,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “potential,” “continue,” “forecast,” “future,” “likely,” “outlook,” or similar expressions or variations on such expressions. For such statements, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will be realized. Anadarko undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.These forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company’s expectations include, but are not limited to, the following risks and uncertainties: •the Company’s assumptions about energy markets•production levels•reserves levels•operating results•competitive conditions•technology•availability of capital resources, levels of capital expenditures, and other contractual obligations•supply and demand for, the price of, and the commercializing and transporting of natural gas, crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGLs), and other products or services•volatility in the commodity-futures market•weather•inflation•availability of goods and services, including unexpected changes in costs•drilling risks•future processing volumes and pipeline throughput•general economic conditions, either internationally or nationally or in the jurisdictions in which the Company or its subsidiaries are doing business•the Company’s inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for drilling and/or development projects•legislative or regulatory changes, including retroactive royalty or production tax regimes; hydraulic-fracturing regulation; deepwater drilling and permitting regulations; derivatives reform; changes in state, federal, and foreign income taxes; environmental regulation; environmental risks; and liability under federal, state, foreign, and local environmental laws and regulations33Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements•ability of BP Exploration & Production Inc. (BP) to meet its indemnification obligations to the Company for Deepwater Horizon events, including, among other things, damage claims arising under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA), claims for natural resource damages (NRD) and associated damage-assessment costs, and any claims arising under the Operating Agreement (OA) for the Macondo well, as well as the ability of BP Corporation North America Inc. (BPCNA) and BP p.l.c. to satisfy their guarantees of such indemnification obligations•impact of remaining claims related to the Deepwater Horizon events, including, but not limited to, fines, penalties, and punitive damages against the Company, for which it is not indemnified by BP•current and potential legal proceedings, or environmental or other obligations related to or arising from Tronox Incorporated (Tronox)•civil or political unrest or acts of terrorism in a region or country•creditworthiness and performance of the Company’s counterparties, including financial institutions, operating partners, and other parties•volatility in the securities, capital, or credit markets and related risks such as general credit, liquidity, and interest-rate risk•the Company’s ability to successfully monetize select assets, repay its debt, and the impact of changes in the Company’s credit ratings•disruptions in international crude oil cargo shipping activities•physical, digital, internal, and external security breaches•supply and demand, technological, political, and commercial conditions associated with long-term development and production projects in domestic and international locations•other factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and in the Company’s other public filings, press releases, and discussions with Company managementWe are, and in the future may become, involved in legal proceedings related to Tronox and, as a result, may incur substantial liabilities in connection with those proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and liquidity.In January 2009, Tronox, a former subsidiary of Kerr-McGee Corporation, which is a current subsidiary of Anadarko, and certain of Tronox’s subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (Bankruptcy Court). Subsequently, in May 2009, Tronox and certain of its affiliates filed a lawsuit against Anadarko and Kerr-McGee Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Kerr-McGee) asserting a number of claims, including claims for actual and constructive fraudulent conveyance (Adversary Proceeding). Tronox alleged, among other things, that it was insolvent or undercapitalized at the date of its initial public offering and sought, among other things, to recover damages from Kerr-McGee and Anadarko, as well as interest, appreciation, and attorneys’ fees and costs. See Note 17—Contingencies—Tronox Litigation in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for the nature and status of this litigation and the Company’s liability accrual.As a result of the Bankruptcy Court’s finding of liability in its Memorandum of Opinion, After Trial (Opinion) issued in December 2013, the Company believes that a loss in the Adversary Proceeding is probable and has recorded a liability of $850 million at December 31, 2013. The Company’s liability is based on the application of relevant accounting guidance and law to the information known to the Company at this time. The Bankruptcy Court has not entered a judgment against Kerr-McGee because the Bankruptcy Court has not resolved questions it raised concerning the appropriate application of bankruptcy law to Kerr-McGee’s right to an offset claim that would reduce the amount of damages to be awarded to the plaintiffs. As the post-trial proceedings continue, the Bankruptcy Court issues a judgment and the parties consider appeal, it is possible that the Company may be required to increase the accrued liability related to the Adversary Proceeding. 34Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsWhile we currently expect to fully pursue all rights available through the appellate process, the Company cannot guarantee success on appeal. If the Company is ultimately required to pay a judgment, the Company may be required to access its $5.0 billion Facility, enter into new or amended financing arrangements, identify and divest assets and/or use cash flows from operations to secure sufficient funds. The Company’s liabilities relating to Tronox could exceed current estimates, and we could incur additional liabilities that we are unable to estimate or predict at this time. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and liquidity. During the appeals process, the Company may be required to post a bond or provide sufficient security within 14 days of a judgment to stay execution of the judgment by the plaintiffs pending the outcome of the appellate process. Depending on the amount of a judgment, there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to post a bond in a timely manner or provide security at levels acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court. The Company’s ability to post a bond or provide sufficient security to stay a judgment depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the amount of the judgment, the willingness of the Bankruptcy Court to accept alternative forms of security, the willingness of bond providers to issue bonds in the required amount or at all, and the proposed terms of such bonds. The Company may be required to access existing or new financing arrangements and monetize or pledge assets in order to post a bond or provide any such required security. There is no assurance that the Company would be able to take such actions on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, any such financing arrangements could subject the Company to covenants imposing additional or more burdensome restrictions on the Company’s business, relative to the covenants currently contained in the $5.0 billion Facility and other existing debt agreements. Moreover, the Company could incur significant fees or costs to obtain and maintain a bond or additional financing arrangements.A downgrade or other negative rating action with respect to our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital.In December 2013, following the Bankruptcy Court’s issuance of the Opinion relating to Tronox, Standard and Poor’s (S&P) affirmed its “BBB-” rating of the Company’s debt but revised its outlook from “positive” to “negative” and Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) affirmed its “Baa3” rating but revised its outlook from “positive” to “developing.” At that time, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) announced no change to its “BBB-” rating with a stable outlook. As of the date of this Form 10-K, no changes in the Company’s credit ratings have occurred and we are not aware of any current plans of S&P, Moody’s, or Fitch to lower their respective ratings on our debt. However, we cannot provide assurance that our credit ratings will not be downgraded or otherwise negatively affected, especially at the time the Bankruptcy Court issues a judgment, depending on the amount of the judgment. A downgrade of our credit ratings could negatively impact our cost of capital and our ability to access capital markets, increase our costs under our $5.0 billion Facility, and limit our ability to effectively execute aspects of our strategy.In addition, a downgrade or other negative rating action could affect the Company’s requirements to post collateral as financial assurance of its performance under certain contractual arrangements, such as pipeline transportation contracts, oil and gas sales contracts, and work commitments. Following the December 2013 outlook revisions by S&P and Moody’s, $17 million of letters of credit were provided as assurance of the Company’s performance under these types of arrangements. A downgrade or other negative rating action could also prompt requests by some of Anadarko’s business partners for the Company to post additional collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash. A downgrade could also trigger provisions in certain of the Company’s derivative instruments that can require full or partial collateralization or immediate settlement of the Company’s obligations. Most of the Company’s derivative counterparties maintain secured positions with respect to the Company’s derivative liabilities under the Company’s $5.0 billion Facility, and if such facility terminates, the Company may be required to post collateral pursuant to existing credit support arrangements. A downgrade could also cause the Company’s credit thresholds with such derivative counterparties to be reduced or eliminated, increasing the amount of collateral required. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features for which a net liability position existed at December 31, 2013, was $42 million (net of collateral). See Note 11—Derivative Instruments in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.35Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsWe may be subject to claims and liabilities relating to the Deepwater Horizon events that are not covered by BP’s indemnification obligations under our Settlement Agreement with BP, or that result in losses to the Company, notwithstanding BP’s indemnification against such losses, as a result of BP’s inability to satisfy its indemnification obligations under the Settlement Agreement and BPCNA’s and BP p.l.c.’s inability to satisfy their guarantees of BP’s indemnification obligations.In October 2011, the Company and BP entered into a settlement agreement, mutual releases, and agreement to indemnify relating to the Deepwater Horizon events (Settlement Agreement). Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, the Company is fully indemnified by BP against all claims, causes of action, losses, costs, expenses, liabilities, damages, or judgments of any kind arising out of the Deepwater Horizon events, related damage claims arising under OPA, NRD claims and assessment costs, and any claims arising under the OA. This indemnification is guaranteed by BPCNA and, in the event that the net worth of BPCNA declines below an agreed-on amount, BP p.l.c. has agreed to become the sole guarantor.Any failure or inability on the part of BP to satisfy its indemnification obligations under the Settlement Agreement, or on the part of BPCNA or BP p.l.c. to satisfy their respective guarantee obligations, could subject us to significant monetary liability beyond the terms of the Settlement Agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In November 2012, BP settled all criminal and securities claims brought by the United States against BP, with BP agreeing to pay $4.0 billion over five years to the U.S. Department of Justice with respect to the criminal claims and further agreeing to pay another $525 million over three years to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with respect to the securities claims. BP represents that it is prepared to vigorously defend itself against remaining civil claims. Furthermore, in certain instances we may be required to recognize a liability for amounts for which we are indemnified in advance of or in connection with recognizing a receivable from BP for the related indemnity payment. Any such liability recognition without collection of the offsetting receivable could adversely impact our results of operations, our financial condition, and our ability to make borrowings.Under the Settlement Agreement, BP does not indemnify the Company against fines and penalties, punitive damages, shareholder derivative or securities laws claims, or certain other claims. The adverse resolution of any current or future proceeding related to the Deepwater Horizon events for which we are not indemnified by BP could subject us to significant monetary liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.Oil, natural-gas, and NGLs prices are volatile. A substantial or extended decline in the price of these commodities could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Prices for oil, natural gas, and NGLs can fluctuate widely. Our revenues, operating results, and future growth rates are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our oil, natural gas, and NGLs. The markets for oil, natural gas, and NGLs have been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile in the future. Factors influencing the prices of oil, natural gas, and NGLs are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: •domestic and worldwide supply of, and demand for, oil, natural gas, and NGLs•volatile trading patterns in the commodity-futures markets•cost of exploring for, developing, producing, transporting, and marketing oil, natural gas, and NGLs•level of global crude-oil and natural-gas inventories•weather conditions•potential U.S. exports of liquefied natural gas or crude oil•ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other producing nations to agree to and maintain production levels•worldwide military and political environment, civil and political unrest in Africa and the Middle East, uncertainty or instability resulting from the escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities, or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere36Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements•effect of worldwide energy conservation and environmental protection efforts•price and availability of alternative and competing fuels•price and level of foreign imports of oil, natural gas, and NGLs•domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes•proximity to, and capacity of, natural-gas pipelines and other transportation facilities•general economic conditions worldwideThe long-term effect of these and other factors on the prices of oil, natural gas, and NGLs is uncertain. Prolonged or substantial declines in these commodity prices may have the following effects on our business: •adversely affecting our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures, and results of operations•reducing the amount of oil, natural gas, and NGLs that we can produce economically•causing us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects•reducing our revenues, operating income, or cash flows•reducing the amounts of our estimated proved oil and natural-gas reserves•reducing the carrying value of our oil and natural-gas properties•reducing the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to oil and natural-gas reserves•limiting our access to, or increasing the cost of, sources of capital, such as equity and long-term debtOur domestic operations are subject to governmental risks that may impact our operations.Our domestic operations have been, and at times in the future may be, affected by political developments and are subject to complex federal, provincial, regional, state, tribal, local, and other laws and regulations such as restrictions on production, permitting, changes in taxes, deductions, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies, price or gathering-rate controls, hydraulic fracturing, and environmental protection regulations. To conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from various federal, provincial, regional, state, tribal, and local governmental authorities. Government disruptions, such as an extended federal government shutdown resulting from the failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or raise the debt ceiling, could delay or halt the granting and renewal of such permits, approvals, and certificates required to conduct our operations. As a result, activity in the affected regions, such as the Gulf of Mexico and on federal and Indian lands in the United States, could be adversely affected or delayed. In addition, the adoption of government payment transparency regulations could harm our competitiveness or relations with other governments or third parties. We may also incur substantial costs to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. Our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws, including environmental and tax laws and regulations, are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. For example, from time to time, legislation has been proposed that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows related to the following: •Climate Change.  A number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing emissions of green-house gases (GHGs). In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has made findings that emissions of GHGs present a danger to public health and the environment and, based on these findings, has adopted regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. We may be required to install “best available control technology” to limit emissions of GHGs from any new or significantly modified facilities that we may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of GHGs. In addition, certain operations are subject to EPA rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore production sources in the United States on an annual basis.37Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements•Deficit Reduction or Tax Reform.  Congress may undertake significant deficit reduction or comprehensive tax reform in the coming year. Proposals include provisions that would, if enacted, (i) eliminate the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs, (ii) eliminate the manufacturing deduction for oil and gas qualified production activities, and (iii) eliminate accelerated depreciation for tangible property.Federal, state, and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs, additional operating restrictions or delays, and adversely affect our production.Hydraulic fracturing is an essential and common practice used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations such as shales that generally exist between 4,000 and 14,000 feet below ground. We routinely apply hydraulic-fracturing techniques in many of our U.S. onshore oil and natural-gas drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand, and additives under pressure into a targeted subsurface formation. The water and pressure create fractures in the rock formations, which are held open by the grains of sand, enabling the oil or natural gas to flow to the wellbore. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural-gas commissions; however, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic-fracturing activities involving diesel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and published draft permitting guidance in May 2012 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. In November 2011, the EPA announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and in its semi-annual regulatory agenda published in July 2013, the agency continues to project the issuance of an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, but it does not state a deadline for such issuance. In May 2013, the BLM published a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands, replacing a prior proposed rulemaking issued in May 2012, that would require public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands, confirmation that wells used in fracturing operations meet appropriate construction standards, and development of appropriate plans for managing flowback water that returns to the surface. In addition, Congress, from time to time, has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In the event that a new, federal level of legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic-fracturing process is adopted in areas where we currently or in the future plan to operate, we may incur additional costs to comply with such federal requirements that may be significant in nature, and also could become subject to additional permitting requirements and experience added delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities.Certain states in which we operate, including Colorado, Pennsylvania, Louisiana, Texas, Ohio, and Wyoming, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, and additional well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. For example, Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure to the Railroad Commission of Texas and the public of certain information regarding the components used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular; for example, local ballot initiatives in the Colorado cities of Boulder, Broomfield, Fort Collins, and Lafayette to restrict oil and gas development, including the use of hydraulic fracturing, either temporarily or permanently, within their respective cities’ limits were approved by voters in November 2013. We believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic-fracturing activities. Nonetheless, in the event state or local restrictions or prohibitions are adopted in areas where we currently conduct operations, or in the future plan to conduct operations, we may incur significant costs to comply with such requirements or we may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Depending on the state or area in which they are adopted, such restrictions or prohibitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.38Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsThere are also certain governmental reviews recently conducted or underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic-fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic-fracturing practices, and the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with a first progress report outlining work currently underway by the agency released on December 21, 2012, and a final draft report drawing conclusions about the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources expected to be available for public comment and peer review by 2014. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic-fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards for shale gas by 2014. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy has conducted an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic-fracturing completion methods and, in August 2011, issued a report on immediate and longer-term actions that may be taken to reduce environmental and safety risks of shale-gas development. Also, as discussed above, the BLM is pursuing regulations governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian oil and gas leases. These studies, depending on any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing.The additional deepwater drilling laws and regulations, both domestically and internationally, delays in the processing and approval of drilling permits and exploration and oil spill-response plans, and other related developments arising after the deepwater drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.In response to the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, each agencies of the U.S. Department of the Interior, issued directives in May and July 2010 requiring lessees and operators of federal oil and gas leases in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) regions of the Gulf of Mexico and Pacific Ocean to cease drilling all new deepwater wells, including wellbore sidetracks and bypasses, but excluding workovers, completions, plugging and abandonment, or production, through November 30, 2010. In addition, the agencies issued a series of rules and Notices to Lessees and Operators imposing new and more stringent regulatory safety and performance requirements and permitting procedures for new wells to be drilled in federal waters of the OCS. If similar events were to occur in the future, the United States or other countries could elect to again issue directives to temporarily cease drilling activities and, in any event, may from time to time issue further safety and environmental laws and regulations regarding offshore oil and gas exploration and development.Compliance with these new and more stringent rules and regulations, uncertainties or inconsistencies in current decisions and rulings by governmental agencies, delays in the processing and approval of drilling permits and exploration, development, and oil spill-response plans, as a result of the new laws and regulations, and possible additional regulatory initiatives could adversely affect or delay new drilling and ongoing development efforts. Among other adverse impacts, these additional measures could delay or disrupt our operations, increase the risk of expired leases due to the time required to develop new technology, result in increased costs and limit activities in certain areas, or cause us to incur penalties, fines, or shut-in production at one or all of our facilities. We cannot predict with any certainty the full impact of any new laws or regulations on our drilling operations or on the cost or availability of insurance to cover the risks associated with such operations.Further, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico (as well as international deepwater locations) lacks the degree of physical and oilfield service infrastructure present in shallower waters. Therefore, despite the Company’s oil spill-response capabilities, it may be difficult for us to quickly or effectively execute any contingency plans related to future events similar to the Deepwater Horizon incident.The matters described above, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.39Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsOur debt and other financial commitments may limit our financial and operating flexibility.Our total debt was $13.6 billion at December 31, 2013. We also have various commitments for leases, drilling contracts, derivative contracts, firm transportation, and purchase obligations for services and products. Our financial commitments could have important consequences to our business including, but not limited to, the following: •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions•limiting our ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, to engage in future acquisitions or development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt or to comply with any restrictive terms of our debt•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitmentsAdditionally, the credit agreement governing our senior secured revolving credit facility ($5.0 billion Facility) contains a number of covenants that impose operating and financial constraints on the Company, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, sell assets, and incur liens. Provisions of the $5.0 billion Facility also require us to maintain specified financial covenants as further described in Liquidity and Capital Resources under Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Our ability to meet such covenants may be affected by events beyond our control.Our proved reserves are estimates. Any material inaccuracies in our reserves estimates or assumptions underlying our reserves estimates could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated.There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control that could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated. The reserves information included or incorporated by reference in this report represents estimates prepared by our internal engineers. The procedures and methods for estimating the reserves by our internal engineers were reviewed by independent petroleum consultants; however, no reserves audit was conducted by these consultants. Estimation of reserves is not an exact science. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural-gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend on a number of variable factors and assumptions, any of which may cause actual results to vary considerably from these estimates. These factors and assumptions may include, but are not limited to, the following: •historical production from an area compared with production from similar producing areas•assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and court rulings•assumptions concerning future oil and natural-gas prices, future operating costs, and capital expenditures•estimates of future severance and excise taxes, workover costs, and remedial costsEstimates of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of expected future net cash flows prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues, and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and the variance may be material. The discounted cash flows included in this report should not be construed as the fair value of the estimated oil, natural-gas, and NGLs reserves attributable to our properties. The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average 12-month sales prices using the average beginning-of-month price. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from the SEC regulation-compliant prices used for purposes of estimating future discounted net cash flows from proved reserves.40Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsFailure to replace reserves may negatively affect our business.Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop, or acquire additional oil and natural-gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves generally decline when reserves are produced, unless we conduct successful exploration or development activities, acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. We may be unable to find, develop, or acquire additional reserves on an economic basis. Furthermore, if oil and natural-gas prices increase, our costs for finding or acquiring additional reserves could also increase.Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage.A portion of our leasehold acreage is currently undeveloped. Unless production in sufficient quantities is established on units containing certain of these leases during their terms, the leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based on various factors: drilling results, oil and natural-gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals.Poor general economic, business, or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition.During the last few years, concerns over inflation, potential default on U.S. debt, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, uncertainties with regard to European sovereign debt, and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. Concerns about global economic conditions have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If economic recovery in the United States or abroad is prolonged, demand for petroleum products could diminish or stagnate, which could impact the price at which we can sell our oil, natural gas, and NGLs; affect our vendors’, suppliers’ and customers’ ability to continue operations; and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition.Our results of operations could be adversely affected by goodwill impairments.As a result of mergers and acquisitions, we had approximately $5.5 billion of goodwill on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2013. Goodwill must be tested at least annually for impairment, and more frequently when circumstances indicate likely impairment. Goodwill is considered impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds its implied fair value. Various factors could lead to an impairment of goodwill, such as the Company’s inability to replace the value of its depleting asset base, difficulty or potential delays in obtaining drilling permits, or other adverse events, such as lower sustained oil and natural-gas prices, which could reduce the fair value of the associated reporting unit. An impairment of goodwill could have a substantial negative effect on our profitability.41Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsWe are subject to complex laws and regulations relating to environmental protection that can adversely affect the cost, manner, and feasibility of doing business.Our operations and properties are subject to numerous federal, provincial, regional, state, tribal, local, and foreign laws and regulations governing the release of pollutants or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations govern the following, among other things: •issuance of permits in connection with exploration, drilling, production, and midstream activities•protection of endangered species•amounts and types of emissions and discharges•generation, management, and disposition of waste materials•offshore oil and gas operations and decommissioning of abandoned facilities•reclamation and abandonment of wells and facility sites•remediation of contaminated sitesIn addition, these laws and regulations may impose substantial liabilities for our failure to comply or for any contamination resulting from our operations, including the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory, remedial, and corrective action obligations or the incurrence of capital expenditures; the occurrence of delays in the development of projects; and the issuance of injunctions restricting or prohibiting some or all of the Company’s activities in a particular area. Future environmental laws and regulations, such as the restriction against emission of pollutants from previously unregulated activities or the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where we operate, may negatively impact our industry. The cost of satisfying these requirements may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows or could result in limitations on our exploration and production activities, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce our reserves. For a description of certain environmental proceedings in which we are involved, see Note 17—Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.We are vulnerable to risks associated with our offshore operations that could negatively impact our operations and financial results.We conduct offshore operations in the Gulf of Mexico, Mozambique, Ghana, China, Brazil, Kenya, Côte d’Ivoire, Liberia, Sierra Leone, New Zealand, Colombia, South Africa, and other countries. Our operations and financial results could be significantly impacted by conditions in some of these areas because we are vulnerable to certain unique risks associated with operating offshore, including those relating to the following: •hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions•oilfield service costs and availability•compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations•terrorist attacks, such as piracy•remediation and other costs and regulatory changes resulting from oil spills or releases of hazardous materials•failure of equipment or facilitiesIn addition, we conduct some of our exploration in deep waters (greater than 1,000 feet) where operations are more difficult and costly than in shallower waters. The deep waters in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as international deepwater locations, lack the physical and oilfield service infrastructure present in its shallower waters. As a result, deepwater operations may require significant time between a discovery and the time that we can market our production, thereby increasing the risk involved with these operations. 42Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsFurther, production of reserves from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico generally declines more rapidly than from reservoirs in many other producing regions of the world. This results in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties in the Gulf of Mexico during the initial few years of production and, as a result, our reserves replacement needs from new prospects may be greater there than for our operations elsewhere. Also, our revenues and return on capital will depend significantly on prices prevailing during these relatively short production periods.We operate in foreign countries and are subject to political, economic, and other uncertainties.Our operations outside the United States are based primarily in Algeria, Brazil, China, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, Mozambique, New Zealand, Sierra Leone, and South Africa. As a result, we face political and economic risks and other uncertainties with respect to our international operations. These risks may include the following, among other things: •loss of revenue, property, and equipment or delays in operations as a result of hazards such as expropriation, war, piracy, acts of terrorism, insurrection, civil unrest, and other political risks, including tension and confrontations among political parties•transparency issues in general and, more specifically, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other anti-corruption compliance laws and issues•increases in taxes and governmental royalties•unilateral renegotiation of contracts by governmental entities•redefinition of international boundaries or boundary disputes•difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations•changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies•foreign-exchange restrictions•international monetary fluctuations and changes in the relative value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the currencies of other countries in which we conduct businessFor example, Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire are currently engaged in a dispute regarding the international maritime and land boundaries between the two countries. As a result, Côte d’Ivoire claims to be entitled to the maritime area which covers a portion of the Deepwater Tano Block where we are currently developing the TEN complex. In the event Côte d’Ivoire is successful in its maritime border claims, this development could be materially impacted. More recently, Venezuela has engaged Guyana in a dispute with regard to their maritime and land borders. Anadarko was forced to stop a seabed study undertaken within Guyana’s Exclusive Economic Zone pursuant to contractual rights granted by Guyana when a Venezuelan naval vessel escorted the vessel to a Venezuelan port because it claims the area as being within its national maritime territory. The two countries have initiated a dialogue. At this time we are unable to ascertain the full impact of this maritime border dispute on future operations in Guyana.Outbreaks of civil and political unrest and acts of terrorism have occurred in several countries in Africa and the Middle East, including countries where we conduct operations, such as Algeria and Tunisia. As exhibited by the events in Tunisia, Egypt, and Libya, outbreaks of civil and political unrest have resulted in established governing bodies being overthrown. Continued or escalated civil and political unrest and acts of terrorism in the countries in which we operate could result in our curtailing operations. In the event that countries in which we operate experience civil or political unrest or acts of terrorism, especially in events where such unrest leads to an unseating of the established government, our operations in such countries could be materially impaired.Our international operations may also be adversely affected by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and taxation.Realization of any of the factors listed above could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.43Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsOur commodity-price risk-management and trading activities may prevent us from fully benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks.To the extent that we engage in commodity-price risk-management activities to protect our cash flows from commodity-price declines, we may be prevented from realizing the full benefits of price increases above the levels of the derivative instruments used to manage price risk. In addition, our commodity-price risk-management and trading activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the following occur: •our production is less than the notional volumes•a widening of price basis differentials occurs between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the derivative arrangement•the counterparties to our hedging or other price-risk management contracts fail to perform under those arrangements•a sudden unexpected event materially impacts oil and natural-gas pricesThe enactment of derivatives legislation, and the promulgation of regulations pursuant thereto, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity-price, interest-rate, and other risks associated with its business.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), enacted in 2010, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the Company, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. Although the CFTC has finalized certain regulations, others remain to be finalized or implemented, and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished.The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the CFTC to establish rules and regulations setting position limits for certain futures contracts in designated physical commodities and for options and swaps that are their economic equivalents. The CFTC’s initial position-limits rules were vacated by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012. However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will finalize these regulations; therefore, the impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time. The CFTC has designated certain interest-rate swaps and credit-default swaps for mandatory clearing and exchange trading. The CFTC has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. Although the Company believes that it qualifies for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements for swaps entered to manage its commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the Company uses for hedging. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires that regulators establish margin rules for uncleared swaps. Rules that require end-users to post initial or variation margin could impact liquidity and reduce our cash available for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to enter into derivatives to reduce risk and protect cash flows. The proposed margin rules are not yet final, and therefore, the impact of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations may also result in counterparties to the Company’s derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices. The Company’s revenues could be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. 44Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsThe Dodd-Frank Act and regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the Company encounters, reduce the Company’s ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts, and increase the Company’s exposure to less-creditworthy counterparties. If the Company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, the Company’s results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent the Company transacts with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, it may become subject to such regulations. At this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear.Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.Deterioration in the credit or equity markets could adversely affect us.We have exposure to different counterparties. For example, we have entered into transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks, insurance companies, investment funds, and other institutions. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default by our counterparty. Deterioration in the credit markets may impact the credit ratings of our current and potential counterparties and affect their ability to fulfill existing obligations to us and their willingness to enter into future transactions with us. We have exposure to these financial institutions through our derivative transactions. In addition, if any lender under our credit facility is unable to fund its commitment, our liquidity will be reduced by an amount up to the aggregate amount of such lender’s commitment under our credit facility. Moreover, to the extent that purchasers of the Company’s production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the Company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time.We are not insured against all of the operating risks to which our business is exposed.Our business is subject to all of the operating risks normally associated with the exploration for and production, gathering, processing, and transportation of oil and gas, including blowouts; cratering and fire; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, and releases of chemicals or other hazardous substances, any of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, oil and natural-gas wells or formations, production facilities, and other property; pollution or other environmental damage; and injury to persons. For protection against financial loss resulting from these operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage, including insurance coverage for certain physical damage, blowout/control of a well, comprehensive general liability, aviation liability, and worker’s compensation and employer’s liability. However, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover us against 100% of potential losses arising as a result of the foregoing, and for certain risks, such as political risk, business interruption, war, terrorism, and piracy, for which we have limited or no coverage. In addition, we are not insured against all risks in all aspects of our business, such as hurricanes. The occurrence of a significant event against which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.45Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsMaterial differences between the estimated and actual timing of critical events may affect the completion of and commencement of production from development projects.We are involved in several large development projects and the completion of those projects may be delayed beyond our anticipated completion dates. Key factors that may affect the timing and outcome of such projects include the following: •project approvals by joint-venture partners•timely issuance of permits and licenses by governmental agencies or legislative and other governmental approvals•weather conditions•availability of personnel•civil and political environment of the country or region in which the project is located•manufacturing and delivery schedules of critical equipment•commercial arrangements for pipelines and related equipment to transport and market hydrocarbonsDelays and differences between estimated and actual timing of critical events may affect the forward-looking statements related to large development projects and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.The oil and gas exploration and production industry is very competitive, and some of our exploration and production competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do.The oil and gas business is highly competitive in the search for and acquisition of reserves and in the gathering and marketing of oil and gas production. Our competitors include national oil companies, major oil and gas companies, independent oil and gas companies, individual producers, gas marketers, and major pipeline companies, as well as participants in other industries supplying energy and fuel to consumers. Some of our competitors may have greater and more diverse resources on which to draw than we do. If we are not successful in our competition for oil and gas reserves or in our marketing of production, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.The high cost or unavailability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel, and other oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs of rigs, equipment, supplies, and personnel are substantially greater and their availability to us may be limited. Additionally, these services may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The high cost or unavailability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel, and other oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.46Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsOur drilling activities may not be productive.Drilling for oil and natural gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or natural-gas reservoirs. The costs of drilling, completing, and operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including the following: •unexpected drilling conditions•pressure or irregularities in formations•equipment failures or accidents•fires, explosions, blowouts, and surface cratering•marine risks such as capsizing, collisions, and hurricanes•difficulty identifying and retaining qualified personnel•title problems•other adverse weather conditions•shortages or delays in the delivery of equipmentCertain of our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. While all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Because of the percentage of our capital budget devoted to high-risk exploratory projects, it is likely that we will continue to experience significant exploration and dry hole expenses.We have limited influence over the activities on properties we do not operate.Other companies operate some of the properties in which we have an interest. We have limited ability to influence the operation or future development of these nonoperated properties or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to them. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence the operation and future development of these properties could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital and lead to unexpected future costs.Our ability to sell our oil and gas production could be materially harmed if we fail to obtain adequate services such as transportation.The marketability of our production depends in part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of pipeline facilities and tanker transportation. If any pipelines or tankers become unavailable, we would, to the extent possible, be required to find a suitable alternative to transport the oil and natural gas, which could increase our costs and/or reduce the revenues we might obtain from the sale of the oil and gas.Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control of Anadarko, even if that change would be beneficial to our stockholders.Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may make a change of control of Anadarko difficult, even if it may be beneficial to our stockholders, including provisions governing the nomination and removal of directors, the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent and regulation of stockholders’ ability to bring matters for action before annual stockholder meetings, and the authorization given to our Board of Directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock.In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock.47Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsWe may reduce or cease to pay dividends on our common stock.We can provide no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends at the current rate or at all. The amount of cash dividends, if any, to be paid in the future will depend on actions taken by our Board of Directors, as well as, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, levels of capital and exploration expenditures, future business prospects, expected liquidity needs, and other related matters that our Board of Directors deems relevant.The loss of key members of our management team, or difficulty attracting and retaining experienced technical personnel, could reduce our competitiveness and prospects for future success.The successful implementation of our strategies and handling of other issues integral to our future success will depend, in part, on our experienced management team. The loss of key members of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. We do not carry key man insurance. Our exploratory drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced explorationists, engineers, and other professionals. Competition for such professionals is intense. If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed.Item 1B