ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.


The Company operates in over 40 countries around the world and faces a variety of risks and
uncertainties that could materially affect its future operations and financial performance. Many of
these risks and uncertainties are not within the Company’s control. Risks that may significantly
impact the Company include the following:


Overall Economic Conditions and Demand for Products — General economic conditions in markets in
which the Company does business can impact the demand for its goods and services. Decreased demand
for its products and services can have a negative impact on the Company’s financial performance and
cash flow.


Demand for the Company’s products and services in part depends on the general economic conditions
affecting the countries and industries in which the Company does business. A downturn in economic
conditions in a country or industry served by the Company may negatively impact demand for the
Company’s products and services, in turn negatively impacting the Company’s operations and
financial results. Further, changes in demand for its products and services can magnify the impact
of economic cycles on the Company’s businesses. Unanticipated contract terminations by current
customers can negatively impact operations, financial results and cash flow. The Company’s recent
divestiture of certain of its chemicals businesses, along with the potential sale of its polymers
business, should make the Company less susceptible to the cyclical nature of the chemicals
industry.


Competition — The Company faces strong competition from several large, global competitors and many
smaller regional ones in most of its business segments. Inability to compete effectively in a
segment could adversely impact sales and financial performance.


The
Merchant Gases segment competes with three global industrial gas companies, L’Air Liquide S.A.,
Linde AG and Praxair, Inc., as well as with several regional competitors in North America
(including Airgas, Inc.) and in Europe and Asia. Competition is based primarily on price, product
quality, reliability of supply and development of innovative applications.


The Tonnage Gases segment also competes with the three global industrial gas competitors noted
above as well as with several regional competitors in North America, Europe and Asia. Competition
is based primarily on price, product quality, reliability of supply, development of innovative
applications and, in some instances, provision of additional items such as power and steam
generation.


The Electronics and Performance Materials segment faces competition on a product-by-product basis
against companies ranging from niche suppliers with a single product to larger and more vertically
integrated companies. Competition is principally conducted on the basis of price, quality, product
performance, reliability of product supply and technical service assistance.


Equipment and Energy competes against many firms based primarily on technological performance,
service, technical know-how, price and performance guarantees.


Healthcare competes against many local and regional providers in the United States, including Apria
Healthcare Group and Lincare Holdings Inc., and against three large industrial gas companies, L’Air
Liquide, S.A., Linde AG and Praxair, Inc., as well as local and regional suppliers in Europe.
Competition is based primarily on quality of service. Remaining competitive requires efficient
logistic, reimbursement and accounts receivable systems.


The Chemicals segment competes against a large number of chemical companies, generally on a
product-by-product basis, principally on the basis of price, quality, product performance,
reliability of product supply and technical service assistance. Several of these competitors are
larger than the Company and are more vertically integrated.



8




Table of Contents





Raw Material and Energy Cost and Availability — Volatility in raw material and energy costs,
interruption in ordinary sources of supply and an inability to recover unanticipated increases in
energy and raw material costs from customers could result in lost sales or significantly increase
the cost of doing business.


Electricity is the largest cost input for the production of atmospheric gases in Merchant Gases and
Tonnage Gases. Because the Company’s industrial gas facilities use substantial amounts of
electricity, energy price fluctuations could materially impact the financial performance of these
segments. While the Company has been successful in contracting for electricity under multi-year
agreements and passing through the cost to its customers, there is no assurance that it will be
able to do so in the future.


Hydrocarbons, including natural gas, are the primary feedstock for the production of hydrogen,
carbon monoxide and synthesis gas within Merchant Gases and Tonnage Gases. Volatility in
hydrocarbon prices can impact the Company’s financial performance. While the Company generally
passes this risk through to its customers under its take-or-pay contracts by matching feedstock
prices to the purchase price of the product being produced, an inability to do so in the future
could impact its financial results.


The Company’s large delivery truck fleet requires a readily available supply of gasoline and diesel
fuel. The Company attempts to pass through increases in the cost of these fuels to its customers
whenever possible.


Steel, aluminum and capital equipment subcomponents (such as compressors) are the principal raw
materials in the equipment portion of the Equipment and Energy segment. Firm purchase agreements
that cover the term of the project provide for adequate raw materials. Coal, petroleum coke and
natural gas are the largest cost components for the energy portion of this segment. These costs are
mitigated, in part, through long-term cost-pass-through contracts.


The principal raw materials used in Chemicals are chemical intermediates such as olefins and
aromatic hydrocarbons produced by outside suppliers from basic petrochemical feed-stocks like crude
oil or natural gas. This segment also depends on adequate energy sources and natural gas as a
feedstock for certain products. The Company does not depend on any one supplier for its chemical
intermediates supply.


Despite the Company’s contractual pass-through of the costs of energy, raw materials and delivery
fuel, a shortage or interruption in their supply or an increase in any of their prices that cannot
be passed on to customers for competitive or other reasons can negatively impact the Company’s
operations, financial results and cash flow.


Regulatory and Political Risks and Foreign Operations — The Company is subject to extensive
government regulation in jurisdictions around the globe in which it does business. Regulations
address, among other things, environmental compliance, import/export restrictions, healthcare
services, taxes and financial reporting, and can significantly increase the cost of doing business,
which in turn can negatively impact the Company’s operations, financial results and cash flow.


The Company is subject to government regulation and intervention both in the United States and in
all foreign jurisdictions in which it conducts its business. Compliance with applicable laws and
regulations results in higher capital expenditures and operating costs and changes to current
regulations with which the Company complies can necessitate further capital expenditures and
increases in operating costs to enable continued compliance. Additionally, from time to time, the
Company is involved in proceedings under certain of these laws and regulations. Foreign operations
are subject to political instabilities, restrictions on funds transfers, import/export restrictions
and currency fluctuation. Significant areas of regulation and intervention include the following:




Environmental and Health Compliance. The Company is committed to conducting its activities so
that there is no or only minimal damage to the environment; there is no assurance, however, that
its activities will not at times result in liability under environmental and health regulations.
Costs and expenses resulting from such liability may materially negatively impact the Company’s
operations and financial condition. Overall, environmental and health laws and regulations will
continue to affect the Company’s businesses worldwide. For a more detailed description of these
matters, see “Narrative Description of the Company’s
Business Generally — Environmental Controls” herein.



Import/Export Regulation. The Company is subject to significant regulatory oversight of its
import and export operations due to the nature of its product offerings. The Company voluntarily
participates in various government programs designed to enhance supply chain security and
promote appropriate screening practices and internal controls


9




Table of Contents




regarding its purchases and sales
to customers around the world. Penalties for non-compliance can be significant and violation can
result in adverse publicity for the Company.



Nationalization and Expropriation. The Company’s operations in certain foreign jurisdictions
are subject to nationalization and expropriation risk and some of its contractual relationships
within these jurisdictions are subject to cancellation without full compensation for loss. The
occurrence of any of these risks could have a material, adverse impact on the Company’s
operations and financial condition. For a more detailed description of these matters, see
“ Narrative Description of the Company’s Business Generally — Foreign Operations” herein.



Home Healthcare Regulation. The Company’s Healthcare segment is subject to extensive government
regulation, including laws directed at preventing fraud, abuse, kickbacks and false claims, laws
regulating billing and reimbursement under various governmental healthcare programs and laws
related to the privacy of patient data. Enforcement actions may be brought by the government or
by qui tam relaters (private citizens bringing an action on behalf of the government), which
could result in the imposition of fines or exclusion from participation in government healthcare
programs. Also, the government contracts with regional carriers who administer claims processing
for governmental healthcare programs. These carriers conduct both pre-payment and post-payment
reviews and audits, which could result in demands for refunds or recoupments of amounts paid.
The Company maintains a compliance program designed to minimize the likelihood that it would
engage in conduct that violates these requirements or that could result in material refunds or
recoupments. In addition, state and federal healthcare programs are subject to reform by
legislative and administrative initiatives that could impact the relative cost of doing business
and the amount of reimbursement for products and services provided by the Company. The Company
closely monitors reform initiatives and participates actively in trade association and other
activities designed to influence these reforms.



Taxes. The Company structures its operations to be tax efficient and to make use of tax credits
and other incentives when it makes business sense to do so. Nevertheless, changes in tax laws,
actual results of operations, final audit of tax returns by taxing authorities, and the timing
and rate at which tax credits can be utilized can change the rate at which the Company is taxed,
thereby affecting its financial results and cash flow.



Financial Accounting Standards. The Company’s financial results can be impacted by new or
modified financial accounting standards.

Financial Market Risks — The Company’s earnings, cash flow and financial position are exposed to
financial market risks worldwide, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations
and exchange rate controls.


The Company operates in over 40 countries. It finances a portion of its operations through United
States and foreign debt markets with various short-term and long-term public and private
borrowings, and conducts its business in both U.S. dollars and many foreign currencies.
Consequently, it is subject to both interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. The
Company actively manages the interest rate risk inherent in its debt portfolio in accordance with
parameters set by management addressing the type of debt issued (fixed versus floating rate) and
the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company strives to mitigate its currency exchange
rate risks by minimizing cash flow exposure to adverse changes in exchange rates through the
issuance of debt in currencies in which operating cash flows are generated and the use of
derivative financials instruments. Derivative counterparty risk is mitigated by contracting with
major financial institutions that have investment grade credit ratings. All derivative instruments
are entered into for other than trading purposes. For a more detailed analysis of these matters see
Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 herein.


Catastrophic Events — Catastrophic events such as natural disasters, pandemics, war and acts of
terrorism, could disrupt the Company’s business or the business of its suppliers or customers, any
of which disruptions could have a negative impact on the Company’s operations, financial results
and cash flow.


The Company’s operations are at all times subject to the occurrence of catastrophic events outside
the Company’s control, ranging from severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods,
earthquakes and storms, to health epidemics and pandemics, to acts of war and terrorism. Any such
event could cause a serious business disruption that could affect the Company’s ability to produce
and distribute its products and possibly expose it to third-party liability claims. Additionally,
such events could impact the Company’s suppliers, in which event energy and raw materials may be
unavailable to the Company, and its customers, who may be unable to purchase or accept the
Company’s products and services. Any such occurrence could have a negative impact on the Company’s
operations and financial condition.



10




Table of Contents





Company Undertakings — The Company actively manages its business to protect and optimize its assets
and businesses. There is no assurance, however, that the Company’s undertakings will result in the
intended protections and optimizations. In certain circumstances, the Company’s undertakings could
negatively impact its operations and financial results.




Operations. Inherent in the Company’s operations of its facilities, pipelines and delivery
systems are hazards that require continuous oversight and control. If operational risks
materialize, they could result in loss of life, damage to the environment or loss of production,
all of which could negatively impact the Company’s on-going operations, financial results and
cash flow. While the safety and security of the Company’s operations have always been a
priority, the Company has significantly expanded its efforts in this area since the terrorist
attacks of September 11, 2001. It has been an active participant in the development and
implementation of the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care Security Code and has
implemented this Code at all global facilities. Security vulnerability assessments (“SVA”) were
conducted and necessary security upgrades implemented at facilities in North American and
Europe; SVAs and necessary security upgrades to the Company’s Asian facilities are expected to
be completed by March 2007. The Company has also developed global security standards to address
the safety and security of its global supply chain.



Portfolio Management. The Company continuously reviews and manages its portfolio of assets in
an attempt to conduct its businesses in a manner to maximize value to its shareholders.
Portfolio management involves many variables, including future acquisitions and divestitures,
restructurings and re-segmentations and cost-cutting and productivity initiatives. The timing,
impact and ability to complete such undertakings, the costs and financial charges associated
with such activities and the ultimate financial impact of such undertakings is uncertain and can
have a negative short or long-term impact on the Company’s operations and financial results.



Insurance. The Company carries public liability and property insurance in amounts that
management believes are sufficient to meet its anticipated needs in light of historical
experience to cover future litigation and property damage claims. Nevertheless, the occurrence
of an unforeseen event for which the Company does not have adequate insurance could result in a
negative impact on its financial results and cash flow. There is no assurance that the Company
will collect insurance proceeds to which it is entitled if an insurer’s business fails or it
refuses to pay in a timely manner. Further, there is no assurance that the Company will not
incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the coverage of, its insurance policies.



Security. Acts of terrorism that threaten the Company or its facilities, pipelines,
transportation or computer systems could severely disrupt its business operations and adversely
affect the results of operations.



IT Risk. The security of the Company’s IT systems could be compromised, which could adversely
affect its ability to operate. The Company utilizes a global enterprise resource planning (ERP)
system and other technologies for the distribution of information both within the Company and to
customers and suppliers. The ERP system and other technologies are potentially vulnerable to
interruption from viruses, hackers or system breakdown. To mitigate these risks, the Company has
implemented a variety of security measures, including virus protection, a state of the art data
center, redundancy procedures and recovery processes. A significant system interruption,
however, could seriously affect the Company’s business operation and financial condition.



Litigation. The Company is involved from time to time in various legal proceedings, including
competition, environmental, health, safety, product liability and insurance matters. There is a
risk that a lawsuit may be settled or adjudicated for an amount that is not insured. Any such
uninsured amount could have a significant impact on the Company’s financial condition and cash
flow.



Recruiting and Retaining. Continued business success depends on the recruitment, development
and retention of qualified employees. The inability to attract, develop or retain quality
employees could negatively impact the Company’s business objectives which might adversely affect
the Company’s business operation and financial condition.





ITEM 1B