ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.



The Company operates in over 40 countries around the world and faces a variety of risks and
uncertainties that could materially affect its future operations and financial performance. Many
of these risks and uncertainties are not within the Company’s control. Risks that may
significantly impact the Company include the following:


Overall Economic Conditions – Weakening general economic conditions in markets in which the Company
does business may decrease the demand for its goods and services or its profitability.


Demand for the Company’s products and services depends in part on the general economic conditions
affecting the countries and industries in which the Company does business. Currently, deteriorating
economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries and in industries served by the Company may
negatively impact demand for the Company’s products and services, in turn negatively impacting the
Company’s revenues and earnings. Excess capacity in the Company’s or its competitors’ manufacturing
facilities could decrease the Company’s ability to generate profits. Unanticipated contract
terminations or project delays by current customers can also negatively impact financial results.


Asset
Impairments – The Company may be required to record an impairment
on its long lived assets.



Weakening
demand may create underutilization of the Company’s  manufacturing capacity or elimination of
product lines; contract terminations or customer shut downs may force sale or abandonment of
facilities and equipment; contractual provisions may allow customer buy out of facilities or
equipment; or other events associated with weakening economic conditions or specific product or
customer events may require the Company to record an impairment on tangible assets such as
facilities and equipment as well as intangible assets such as intellectual property or goodwill,
which would have a negative impact on the Company’s financial results.


Competition – Inability to compete effectively in a segment could adversely impact sales and
financial performance.


The Company faces strong competition from several large, global competitors and many smaller
regional ones in all of its business segments. Introduction by competitors of new technologies,
competing products or additional capacity could weaken demand for or impact pricing of the
Company’s products, negatively impacting financial results. In addition, competitors’ pricing
policies can materially affect pricing of the Company’s products or its market share, causing an
adverse impact on revenues and/or profitability.




7




Table of Contents
Raw Material and Energy Cost and Availability – Interruption in ordinary sources of supply or an
inability to recover increases in energy and raw material costs from customers could result in lost
sales or reduced profitability.



Energy, including electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for delivery trucks, is the largest cost
component of the Company’s business. Because the Company’s industrial gas facilities use
substantial amounts of electricity, energy price fluctuations could materially impact the Company’s
revenues and earnings. Hydrocarbons, including natural gas, are the primary feedstock for the
production of hydrogen, carbon monoxide and synthesis gas. The Electronics and Performance
Materials segment uses a wide variety of raw materials, including alcohols, ethyleneamines,
cyclohexamines, acrylonitriles and glycols. Shortages or price escalation in these materials could
negatively impact financial results. A disruption in the supply of energy and raw materials,
whether due to market conditions, natural events or other disruption, could prevent the Company
from meeting its contractual commitments, harming its business and financial results.


The Company typically contracts to pass through cost increases in energy and raw materials to its
customers, but cost variability can still have a negative impact on its results. The Company may
not be able to raise prices as quickly as costs rise or competitive pressures may prevent full
recovery. Increases in energy or raw materials costs that cannot be passed on to customers for
competitive or other reasons would negatively impact the Company’s revenues and earnings. Even
where costs are passed through, price increases can cause lower sales volume.


Regulatory Changes – The Company is subject to extensive government regulation in jurisdictions
around the globe in which it does business. Changes in regulations addressing, among other things,
environmental compliance, import/export restrictions and taxes, can negatively impact the Company’s
operations and financial results.


The Company is subject to government regulation in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in
which it conducts its business. Compliance with changes in laws or regulations can require
additional capital expenditures or increase operating costs. Export controls or other regulatory
restrictions could prevent the Company from shipping Company products to and from some markets or increase
the cost of doing so. Changes in tax laws and regulations and international tax treaties could
affect the financial results of the Company’s businesses.


Greenhouse Gases — Legislative and regulatory responses to global climate change create financial
risk.


Some of the Company’s operations are within jurisdictions that have, or are developing, regulations
governing emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG). These include existing and expanding coverage under
the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme; mandatory reporting and reductions at manufacturing
facilities in Alberta, Canada; and mandatory reporting and anticipated constraints on GHG emissions
in California and Ontario. In addition, increased public awareness and concern may result in more
international, U.S. federal and/or regional requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of GHG.
Although uncertain, these developments could increase the Company’s costs related to consumption of
electric power, hydrogen production and fluorinated gases production. The Company believes it will
be able to mitigate some of the potential increased cost through its contractual terms, but the
lack of definitive legislation or regulatory requirements prevents accurate estimate of the
long-term impact on the Company. Any legislation that limits or taxes GHG emissions could impact
the Company’s growth, increase its operating costs or reduce demand for certain of its products.


Environmental Compliance — Costs and expenses resulting from compliance with environmental
regulations may negatively impact the Company’s operations and financial results.


The Company is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental and safety laws
and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions in the air, discharges to land and water
and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. The
Company takes it environmental responsibilities very seriously, but there is a risk of
environmental impact inherent in its manufacturing operations. Future developments and more
stringent environmental regulations may require the Company to make additional unforeseen
environmental expenditures. In addition, laws and regulations may require significant expenditures
for environmental protection equipment, compliance and remediation. These additional costs may
adversely affect financial results. For a more detailed description of these matters, see
“Narrative Description of the Company’s Business Generally — Environmental Controls” above.


Foreign Operations, Political and Legal Risks — The Company’s foreign operations can be adversely
impacted by nationalization or expropriation of property, undeveloped property rights and legal
systems or political instability.


The Company’s operations in certain foreign jurisdictions are subject to nationalization and
expropriation risk and some of its contractual relationships within these jurisdictions are subject
to cancellation without full compensation for loss. Economic and political conditions within
foreign jurisdictions, social unrest or strained relations between countries can


8




Table of Contents



cause fluctuations in demand, price volatility, supply disruptions or loss of property. The
occurrence of any of these risks could have a material, adverse impact on the Company’s operations
and financial results.


Interest Rate Fluctuations — The Company’s earnings, cash flow and financial position can be
impacted by interest rate increases.


At 30
September 2008, the Company had total consolidated debt of
 $3,966.8 million, of which
approximately $451.4 million  will mature in the next twelve months. The Company expects to continue to
incur indebtedness to fund new projects and replace maturing debt. Although the Company actively
manages its interest rate risk through the use of derivatives and diversified debt obligations, not
all borrowings at variable rates are hedged, and new debt will be priced at market rates. If
interest rates increase, the Company’s interest expense could increase significantly, affecting
earnings and reducing cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions
and other purposes.


Currency Fluctuations — Changes in foreign currencies may adversely affect the Company’s financial
results.


A substantial amount of the Company’s sales are derived from outside the United States, a
significant portion of which are denominated in foreign currencies. The Company also has
significant production facilities which are located outside of the United States. Financial results
therefore will be affected by changes in foreign currency rates. The Company uses certain financial
instruments to mitigate these effects, but it is not cost effective to hedge foreign currency
exposure in a manner that would entirely eliminate the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates
on earnings, cash flows and fair values of assets and liabilities. Accordingly, reported sales, net
earnings, cash flows and fair values have been and in the future will be affected by changes in
foreign exchange rates. For a more detailed discussion of currency exposure, see “Market Ratio and
Sensitivity Analysis” included in Item 7A below.


Catastrophic Events – Catastrophic events could disrupt the Company’s operations or the operations
of its suppliers or customers, having a negative impact on the Company’s business, financial
results and cash flow.


The Company’s operations could be impacted by catastrophic events outside the Company’s control,
including severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and storms; health
epidemics and pandemics; or acts of war and terrorism. Any such event could cause a serious
business disruption that could affect the Company’s ability to produce and distribute its products
and possibly expose it to third-party liability claims. Additionally, such events could impact the
Company’s suppliers, in which event energy and raw materials may be unavailable to the Company, or
its customers may be unable to purchase or accept the Company’s products and services. Any such
occurrence could have a negative impact on the Company’s operations and financial results.


Operational Risks – Operational and execution risks may adversely affect the Company’s operations
or financial results.


The Company’s operation of its facilities, pipelines and delivery systems inherently entails
hazards that require continuous oversight and control, such as pipeline leaks and ruptures, fire,
explosions, toxic releases, mechanical failures or vehicle accidents. If operational risks
materialize, they could result in loss of life, damage to the environment or loss of production,
all of which could negatively impact the Company’s on-going operations, financial results and cash
flow. The Company’s operating results are dependent on the continued operation of its production
facilities and its ability to meet customer requirements. Insufficient capacity may expose the
Company to liabilities related to contract commitments. Operating results are also dependent on the
Company’s ability to complete new construction projects on time, on budget and in accordance with
performance requirements. Failure to do so may expose the business to loss of revenue, potential
litigation and loss of business reputation.


Information Security — The security of the Company’s information technology systems could be
compromised, which could adversely affect its ability to operate.


The Company utilizes a global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system and other technologies for
the distribution of information both within the Company and to customers and suppliers. The ERP
system and other technologies are potentially vulnerable to interruption from viruses, hackers or
system breakdown. To mitigate these risks, the Company has implemented a variety of security
measures, including virus protection, a state of the art data center, redundancy procedures


9




Table of Contents



and recovery processes. A significant system interruption, however, could materially affect the
Company’s operations, business reputation and financial results.


Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings — The Company’s financial results may be affected by various
legal and regulatory proceedings, including those involving antitrust, environmental or other
matters.


The Company is subject to litigation and regulatory proceedings in the normal course of business
and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. The
outcome of existing legal proceedings may differ from the Company’s expectations because the
outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict.
Various factors or developments can lead the Company to change current estimates of liabilities and
related insurance receivables where applicable or make such estimates for matters previously not
susceptible of reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a
significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. A future
adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations in any particular period. For a more
detailed discussion of the legal proceedings involving the Company, see Note 19
to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 below.


Recruiting and Retaining Employees — Inability to attract, retain or develop skilled employees
could adversely impact the Company’s business.


Sustaining and growing the Company’s business depend on the recruitment, development and
retention of qualified employees. Demographic trends and changes in the geographic concentration of
global businesses have created more competition for talent. The inability to attract, develop or
retain quality employees could negatively impact the Company’s ability to take on new projects and
sustain its operations which might adversely affect the Company’s operations or its ability to
grow.


Portfolio
Management — The success of portfolio management activities is
not predictable

The Company continuously reviews and manages its portfolio of assets in order to maximize value for its
shareholders. Portfolio management involves many variables, including future acquisitions and
divestitures, restructurings and resegmentations and cost-cutting and productivity initiatives. The
timing, impact and ability to complete such undertakings, the costs and financial charges
associated with such activities and the ultimate financial impact of
such undertakings are  uncertain
and can have a negative short or long-term impact on the Company’s operations and financial
results.





ITEM 1B