ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



The Company operates in over 40 countries around the world and faces a variety of risks and
uncertainties that could materially affect its future operations and financial performance. Many of
these risks and uncertainties are not within the Company’s control. Risks that may significantly
impact the Company include the following:



Overall Economic Conditions—Weak general economic conditions in markets in which the Company does
business may decrease the demand for its goods and services and adversely impact its revenues,
operating results, and cash flow.



Demand for the Company’s products and services depends in part on the general economic conditions
affecting the countries and industries in which the Company does business. Currently, weak economic
conditions in the U.S. and other countries and in industries served by the Company have impacted
and may continue to impact demand for the Company’s products and services, in turn negatively
impacting the Company’s revenues and earnings. Excess capacity in the Company’s or its competitors’
manufacturing facilities could decrease the Company’s ability to generate profits. Unanticipated
contract terminations or project delays by current customers can also negatively impact financial
results. In addition, the length and severity of the economic downturn have increased the risk of
potential bankruptcy of customers and potential losses from accounts receivable.



Asset Impairments—The Company may be required to record impairment on its long-lived assets.



Weak
demand may cause underutilization of the Company’s manufacturing capacity or elimination of product
lines; contract terminations or customer shutdowns may force sale or abandonment of facilities and
equipment; contractual provisions may allow customer buyout of facilities or equipment; or other
events associated with weak economic conditions or specific product or customer events may require
the Company to record an impairment on tangible assets, such as facilities and equipment, as well
as intangible assets, such as intellectual property or goodwill, which would have a negative impact
on its financial results.



Competition—Inability to compete effectively in a segment could adversely impact sales and
financial performance.



The Company faces strong competition from several large, global competitors and many smaller
regional ones in all of its business segments. Introduction by competitors of new technologies,
competing products, or additional capacity could weaken demand for or impact pricing of the
Company’s products, negatively impacting financial results. In addition, competitors’ pricing
policies could materially affect the Company’s profitability or its market share.






9




Table of Contents






Raw Material and Energy Cost and Availability—Interruption in ordinary sources of supply or an
inability to recover increases in energy and raw material costs from customers could result in lost
sales or reduced profitability.



Energy, including electricity, natural gas, and diesel fuel for delivery trucks, is the largest
cost component of the Company’s business. Because the Company’s industrial gas facilities use
substantial amounts of electricity, energy price fluctuations could materially impact the Company’s
revenues and earnings. Hydrocarbons, including natural gas, are the primary feedstock for the
production of hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and synthesis gas. The Electronics and Performance
Materials segment uses a wide variety of raw materials, including alcohols, ethyleneamines,
cyclohexamine, acrylonitriles, and glycols. Shortages or price escalation in these materials could
negatively impact financial results. A disruption in the supply of energy and raw materials,
whether due to market conditions, natural events, or other disruption, could prevent the Company
from meeting its contractual commitments, harming its business and financial results.



The Company typically contracts to pass through cost increases in energy and raw materials to its
customers, but cost variability can still have a negative impact on its results. The Company may
not be able to raise prices as quickly as costs rise, or competitive pressures may prevent full
recovery. Increases in energy or raw material costs that cannot be passed on to customers for
competitive or other reasons would negatively impact the Company’s revenues and earnings. Even
where costs are passed through, price increases can cause lower sales volume.



Regulatory Compliance—The Company is subject to extensive government regulation in jurisdictions
around the globe in which it does business. Changes in regulations addressing, among other things,
environmental compliance, import/export restrictions, and taxes, can negatively impact the
Company’s operations and financial results.



The Company is subject to government regulation in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in
which it conducts its business. The application of laws and regulations to the Company’s business
is sometimes unclear. Compliance with laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require
changes in business practice that could result in reduced profitability. Determination of
noncompliance can result in penalties or sanctions that could also impact financial results.
Compliance with changes in laws or regulations can require additional capital expenditures or
increase operating costs. Export controls or other regulatory
restrictions could prevent the Company from
shipping its products to and from some markets or increase the cost of doing so. Changes in tax
laws and regulations and international tax treaties could affect the financial results of the
Company’s businesses.



Greenhouse Gases—Legislative and regulatory responses to global climate change create financial
risk.



Some of the Company’s operations are within jurisdictions that have, or are developing, regulatory
regimes governing emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG). These include existing and expanding
coverage under the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme; mandatory reporting and reductions at
manufacturing facilities in Alberta, Canada; and mandatory reporting and anticipated constraints on
GHG emissions in California and Ontario. In addition, increased public awareness and concern may
result in more international, U.S. federal, and/or regional requirements to reduce or mitigate the
effects of GHG. Although uncertain, these developments could increase the Company’s costs related
to consumption of electric power, hydrogen production, and fluorinated gases production. The
Company believes it will be able to mitigate some of the potential increased cost through its
contractual terms, but the lack of definitive legislation or regulatory requirements prevents
accurate estimate of the long-term impact on the Company. Any legislation that limits or taxes GHG
emissions could impact the Company’s growth, increase its operating costs, or reduce demand for
certain of its products.



Environmental Compliance—Costs and expenses resulting from compliance with environmental
regulations may negatively impact the Company’s operations and financial results.



The Company is subject to extensive federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and safety
laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions in the air, discharges to land and
water, and the generation, handling, treatment, and disposal of hazardous waste and other
materials. The Company takes its environmental responsibilities very seriously, but there is a risk
of environmental impact inherent in its manufacturing operations. Future developments and more
stringent environmental regulations may require the Company to make additional unforeseen
environmental expenditures. In addition, laws and regulations may require significant expenditures
for environmental protection equipment, compliance, and remediation. These additional costs may
adversely affect





10




Table of Contents






financial results. For a more detailed description of these matters, see “Narrative Description of
the Company’s Business Generally—Environmental Controls,” above.



Foreign Operations, Political, and Legal Risks—The Company’s foreign operations can be adversely
impacted by nationalization or expropriation of property, undeveloped property rights, and legal
systems or political instability.



The Company’s operations in certain foreign jurisdictions are subject to nationalization and
expropriation risk, and some of its contractual relationships within these jurisdictions are
subject to cancellation without full compensation for loss. Economic and political conditions
within foreign jurisdictions, social unrest or strained relations between countries can cause
fluctuations in demand, price volatility, supply disruptions, or loss of property. The occurrence
of any of these risks could have a material, adverse impact on the Company’s operations and
financial results.



Interest Rate Increases—The Company’s earnings, cash flow, and financial position can be impacted
by interest rate increases.



At 30 September 2009, the Company had total consolidated debt of approximately $4,501.5 million, of
which approximately $785.9 million will mature in the next twelve months. The Company expects to
continue to incur indebtedness to fund new projects and replace maturing debt. Although the Company
actively manages its interest rate risk through the use of derivatives and diversified debt
obligations, not all borrowings at variable rates are hedged, and new debt will be priced at market
rates. If interest rates increase, the Company’s interest expense could increase significantly,
affecting earnings and reducing cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures,
acquisitions, and other purposes. In addition, changes by any rating agency to the Company’s
outlook or credit ratings could increase the Company’s cost of borrowing.



Currency Fluctuations—Changes in foreign currencies may adversely affect the Company’s financial
results.



A
substantial amount of the Company’s sales are derived from
outside the United States and denominated in foreign currencies. The Company also has
significant production facilities which are located outside of the United States. Financial results
therefore will be affected by changes in foreign currency rates. The Company uses certain financial
instruments to mitigate these effects, but it is not cost-effective to hedge foreign currency
exposure in a manner that would entirely eliminate the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates
on earnings, cash flows, and fair values of assets and liabilities. Accordingly, reported sales,
net earnings, cash flows, and fair values have been and in the future will be affected by changes
in foreign exchange rates. For a more detailed discussion of currency exposure, see Item 7A, below.



Pension Liabilities—The Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be
negatively impacted by its U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans.



Adverse equity market conditions and volatility in the credit markets have had and may continue to
have an unfavorable impact on the value of the Company’s pension trust assets and its future
estimated pension liabilities. As a result, the Company’s financial results in any period could be
negatively impacted. In addition, in a period of an extended financial market downturn, the Company
could be required to provide increased pension plan funding, which could negatively impact the
Company’s financial flexibility. For information about potential impacts from pension funding and
the use of certain assumptions regarding pension matters, see the discussion in Note 15 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, below.



Catastrophic Events—Catastrophic events could disrupt the Company’s operations or the operations
of its suppliers or customers, having a negative impact on the Company’s business, financial
results, and cash flow.



The Company’s operations could be impacted by catastrophic events outside the Company’s control,
including severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, and storms; health
epidemics and pandemics; or acts of war and terrorism. Any such event could cause a serious
business disruption that could affect the Company’s ability to produce and distribute its products
and possibly expose it to third-party liability claims. Additionally, such events could impact the
Company’s suppliers, in which event energy and raw materials may be unavailable to the Company, or
its customers may be unable to purchase or accept the Company’s products and services. Any such
occurrence could have a negative impact on the Company’s operations and financial results.






11




Table of Contents






Operational Risks—Operational and execution risks may adversely affect the Company’s operations or
financial results.



The Company’s operation of its facilities, pipelines, and delivery systems inherently entails
hazards that require continuous oversight and control, such as pipeline leaks and ruptures, fire,
explosions, toxic releases, mechanical failures, or vehicle accidents. If operational risks
materialize, they could result in loss of life, damage to the environment, or loss of production,
all of which could negatively impact the Company’s ongoing operations, financial results, and cash
flow. In addition, the Company’s operating results are dependent on the continued operation of its
production facilities and its ability to meet customer requirements. Insufficient capacity may
expose the Company to liabilities related to contract commitments. Operating results are also
dependent on the Company’s ability to complete new construction projects on time, on budget, and in
accordance with performance requirements. Failure to do so may expose
the Company  to loss of
revenue, potential litigation, and loss of business reputation.



Information Security—The security of the Company’s Information Technology systems could be
compromised, which could adversely affect its ability to operate.



The Company utilizes a global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system and other technologies for
the distribution of information both within the Company and to customers and suppliers. The ERP
system and other technologies are potentially vulnerable to interruption from viruses, hackers, or
system breakdown. To mitigate these risks, the Company has implemented a variety of security
measures, including virus protection, redundancy procedures, and recovery processes. A significant
system interruption, however, could materially affect the Company’s operations, business
reputation, and financial results.



Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings—The Company’s financial results may be affected by various
legal and regulatory proceedings, including those involving antitrust, environmental, or other
matters.



The Company is subject to litigation and regulatory proceedings in the normal course of business
and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. The
outcome of existing legal proceedings may differ from the Company’s expectations because the
outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict.
Various factors or developments can lead the Company to change current estimates of liabilities and
related insurance receivables where applicable, or make such estimates for matters previously not
susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a
significant settlement, significant regulatory developments, or changes in applicable law. A future
adverse ruling, settlement, or unfavorable development could result in charges that could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations in any particular period. For a more
detailed discussion of the legal proceedings involving the Company,
see  Item 3, below.



Recruiting and Retaining Employees—Inability to attract, retain, or develop skilled employees
could adversely impact the Company’s business.



Sustaining and growing the Company’s business depends on the recruitment, development, and
retention of qualified employees. Demographic trends and changes in the geographic concentration of
global businesses have created more competition for talent. The inability to attract, develop, or
retain quality employees could negatively impact the Company’s ability to take on new projects and
sustain its operations, which might adversely affect the Company’s operations or its ability to
grow.



Portfolio Management—The success of portfolio management activities is not predictable.



The Company continuously reviews and manages its portfolio of assets in order to maximize value for
its shareholders. Portfolio management involves many variables, including future acquisitions and
divestitures, restructurings and resegmentations, and cost-cutting and productivity initiatives.
The timing, impact, and ability to complete such undertakings, the costs and financial charges
associated with such activities, and the ultimate financial impact of such undertakings are
uncertain and can have a negative short- or long-term impact on the Company’s operations and
financial results.






ITEM 1B