Item 1A herein.
 
The Company’s products are sold to thousands of OEMs in approximately 70 countries throughout the world. The Company also sells certain products to electronic manufacturing services (“EMS”) companies, to original design manufacturers (“ODMs”) and to communication network operators.  No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 or 2011.
 
5






Table of Contents
 
The Company sells its products through its own global sales force, independent representatives and a global network of electronics distributors. The Company’s sales to distributors represented approximately 13% of the Company’s consolidated net 2013 sales.  In addition to product design teams and customer collaboration arrangements, the Company uses key account managers to manage customer relationships on a global basis such that it can bring to bear its total resources to meet the worldwide needs of its multinational customers.
 
Manufacturing
 
The Company is a global manufacturer employing advanced manufacturing processes including molding, stamping, plating, turning, extruding, die casting and assembly operations as well as proprietary process technology for specialty and coaxial cable production. Outsourcing of certain fabrication processes is used when cost-effective. Substantially all of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are certified to the ISO9000 series of quality standards, and many of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are certified to other quality standards, including QS9000, ISO14000, TS16949 and TS16469.
 
The Company’s manufacturing facilities are generally vertically integrated operations from the initial design stage through final design and manufacturing.  The Company has an established manufacturing presence in over 30 countries. Our global coverage positions us near our customers’ locations and allows us to assist them in consolidating their supply base and lowering their production costs. We believe our balanced geographic distribution lowers our exposure to any particular geography.  The Company designs, manufactures and assembles its products at facilities in the Americas, Europe, Asia, Australia and Africa.  The Company believes that its global presence is an important competitive advantage, as it allows the Company to provide quality products on a timely and worldwide basis to its multinational customers.
 
The Company employs a global manufacturing strategy to lower its production costs and to improve service to customers. The Company’s strategy is to maintain strong cost controls in its manufacturing and assembly operations. The Company is continually evaluating and adjusting its expense levels and workforce to reflect current business conditions and maximize the return on capital investments.  The Company sources its products on a worldwide basis.  To better serve certain high volume customers, the Company has established just-in-time facilities near these major customers.  The Company’s international manufacturing and assembly facilities generally serve the respective local markets and coordinate product design and manufacturing responsibility with the Company’s other operations around the world.  The Company has lower cost manufacturing and assembly facilities in China, Malaysia, Mexico, India, Eastern Europe and North Africa to serve regional and world markets.  For a discussion of risks attendant to the Company’s foreign operations, see the risk factor titled “The Company is subject to the risks of political, economic and military instability in countries outside the United States” in Part I, Item 1A herein.
 
Net sales by geographic region as an approximate percent of our total consolidated net sales were as follows:
 



     

     

For the Years Ended    

        


     

     

2013    

     

2012    

     

2011    

        


United States     

     

31    

%    

32    

%    

32    

%       


China    

     

27    

%    

25    

%    

25    

%       


Other International Locations    

     

42    

%    

43    

%    

43    

%       


Total    

     

100    

%    

100    

%    

100    

%         
 
Net sales by geographic area are based on the customer location to which the product is shipped.
 
Research and Development
 
The Company generally implements its product development strategy through product design teams and collaboration arrangements with customers, which result in the Company obtaining approved vendor status for its customers’ new products and programs.  The Company focuses its research and development efforts primarily on those product areas that it believes have the potential for broad market applications and significant sales within a one to three year period.  The Company seeks to have its products become widely accepted within the industry for similar applications and products manufactured by other potential customers, which the Company believes will provide additional sources of future revenue.  By developing application specific products, the Company has decreased its exposure to standard products, which generally experience greater pricing pressure.
 
Our research, development, and engineering efforts are supported by approximately 1,500 engineers and are performed primarily by individual operating units focused on specific markets and technologies.  The Company’s research and development expense for the creation of new and improved products and processes was $103.4 million, $92.5 million and $88.9 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
6






Table of Contents
 
Intellectual Property
 
Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, continuing technological innovations, and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third-party proprietary rights, including patents and patent applications, as available, in an effort to develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities, and monitor the intellectual property claims of others.
 
We own a large portfolio of patents that principally relate to electrical, optical, electronic and sensor products. We also own a portfolio of trademarks and are a licensee of various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the trademarks.
 
While we consider our patents and trademarks to be valued assets, we do not believe that our competitive position or our operations are dependent upon or would be materially impacted by the loss of any single patent or group of related patents.
 
Raw Materials
 
The Company purchases a wide variety of raw materials for the manufacture of its products, including precious metals such as gold and silver used in plating, aluminum, brass, steel, copper and bimetallic products used for cable, contacts and connector shells, and plastic materials used for cable and connector bodies and inserts. Such raw materials are generally available throughout the world and are purchased locally from a variety of suppliers. The Company is generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials, or if one source is used the Company attempts to protect itself through long-term supply agreements.  Information regarding our purchasing obligations related to commitments to purchase certain goods and services is disclosed in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Competition
 
The Company encounters competition in substantially all areas of its business. The Company competes primarily on the basis of technology innovation, product quality, price, customer service and delivery time.  Competitors within the Interconnect Products and Assemblies segment include TE Connectivity, Molex, Yazaki, Foxconn, FCI, JST, Delphi, Hirose and JAE, among others. The primary competitor within the Cable Products and Solutions segment is Commscope, among others.  In addition, the Company competes with a large number of smaller companies who compete in specific geographies, markets or products.
 
Backlog
 
The Company estimates that its backlog of unfilled orders as of December 31, 2013 was approximately $1,032 million compared with backlog of approximately $800 million as of December 31, 2012.  Orders typically fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on customer demand and general business conditions. Unfilled orders may generally be cancelled prior to shipment of goods. It is expected that all or a substantial portion of the backlog will be filled within the next 12 months. Significant elements of the Company’s business, such as sales to the communications related markets (including wireless communications, information technology and data communications) and broadband communications and sales to distributors, generally have short lead times. Therefore, backlog may not be indicative of future demand.
 
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately 44,500 employees worldwide, of which approximately 35,000 were located in lower cost regions. Of these employees, approximately 36,900 were hourly employees and the remainder were salaried employees. The Company believes that it has a good relationship with its unionized and non-unionized employees.
 
Environmental Matters
 
Certain operations of the Company are subject to environmental laws and regulations which govern the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, as well as the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. The Company believes that its operations are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that the costs of continuing compliance will not have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
 
Owners and occupiers of sites containing hazardous substances, as well as generators of hazardous substances, are subject to broad liability under various environmental laws and regulations, including expenditures for cleanup and monitoring costs and
 
7






Table of Contents
 
potential damages arising out of past disposal activities. Such liability in many cases may be imposed regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal activity. The Company has performed remediation activities and is currently performing operations and maintenance and monitoring activities at three off-site disposal sites previously utilized by the Company’s facility in Sidney, New York, and others - the Richardson Hill Road landfill, the Route 8 landfill and the Sidney landfill.  Actions at the Richardson Hill Road and Sidney landfills were undertaken subsequent to designation as “Superfund” sites on the National Priorities List under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. The Route 8 landfill was designated as a New York State Inactive Hazardous Waste Disposal Site, with remedial actions taken pursuant to Chapter 6, Section 375-1 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations. In addition, the Company is currently performing monitoring activities at, and in proximity to, its manufacturing site in Sidney, New York. The Company is also engaged in remediating or monitoring environmental conditions at certain of its other manufacturing facilities and has been named as a potentially responsible party for cleanup costs at other off-site disposal sites.
 
Subsequent to the acquisition of Amphenol Corporation from Allied Signal Corporation (“Allied Signal”) in 1987 (Allied Signal merged with Honeywell International Inc. in December 1999 (“Honeywell”)), the Company and Honeywell were named jointly and severally liable as potentially responsible parties in connection with several environmental cleanup sites. The Company and Honeywell jointly consented to perform certain investigations and remediation and monitoring activities at the Route 8 landfill and the Richardson Hill Road landfill, and they were jointly ordered to perform work at the Sidney landfill, all as referred to above. All of the costs incurred relating to these three sites are currently reimbursed by Honeywell based on an agreement (the “Honeywell Agreement”) entered into in connection with the acquisition in 1987. The environmental investigation, remediation and monitoring activities identified by the Company, including those referred to above, are covered under the Honeywell Agreement.  Management does not believe that the costs associated with resolution of these or any other environmental matters will have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
 
Since 1987, the Company has not been identified or named as a potentially responsible party with respect to any other significant on-site or off-site hazardous waste matters. In addition, the Company believes that its manufacturing activities and disposal practices since 1987 have been in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Nonetheless, it is possible that the Company will be named as a potentially responsible party in the future with respect to additional Superfund or other sites. Although the Company is unable to predict with any reasonable certainty the extent of its ultimate liability with respect to any pending or future environmental matters, the Company believes, based upon information currently known by management about the Company’s manufacturing activities, disposal practices and estimates of liability with respect to known environmental matters, that any such liability will not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
 
Other
 
The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K and all of the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are available to view, without charge, on the Company’s web site, www.amphenol.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Copies are also available without charge, from Amphenol Corporation, Investor Relations, 358 Hall Avenue, Wallingford, CT 06492.
 
Cautionary Information for Purposes of Forward Looking Statements
 
Statements made by the Company in written or oral form to various persons, including statements made in this annual report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC, that are not strictly historical facts are “forward looking” statements. Such statements should be considered as subject to uncertainties that exist in the Company’s operations and business environment. Certain of the risk factors, assumptions or uncertainties that could cause the Company to fail to conform with expectations and predictions are described below under the caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item IA and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K.  Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or should the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this annual report on Form 10-K as anticipated, believed, estimated or expected.  We do not intend to update these forward looking statements.
 
Item 1A. Risk Factors
 
Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business and operations.
 
If actions taken by management to limit, monitor or control financial enterprise risk exposures are not successful, the Company’s business and consolidated financial statements could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment.
 
8






Table of Contents
 
The Company is dependent on the communications industry, including information technology and data communications, wireless communications and broadband communications.
 
Approximately 56% of the Company’s 2013 net sales came from sales to the communications industry, including information technology and data communication, wireless communications and broadband communications of which 19% of the Company’s 2013 net sales came from sales to the mobile device market. Demand for these products is subject to rapid technological change (see below—“The Company is dependent on the acceptance of new product introductions for continued revenue growth”). These markets are dominated by several large manufacturers and operators who regularly exert significant price pressure on their suppliers, including the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete successfully in the communications industry, and the Company’s failure to do so could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
 
Approximately 8% and 10% of the Company’s 2013 net sales came from sales to the broadband communications and mobile networks markets, respectively.  Demand for the Company’s products in these markets depends primarily on capital spending by operators for constructing, rebuilding or upgrading their systems. The amount of this capital spending and, therefore, the Company’s sales and profitability will be affected by a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, consolidation within the communications industry, the financial condition of operators and their access to financing, competition, technological developments, new legislation and regulation of operators. There can be no assurance that existing levels of capital spending will continue or that spending will not decrease.
 
Changes in defense expenditures may reduce the Company’s sales.
 
Approximately 12% of the Company’s 2013 net sales came from sales to the military market. The Company participates in a broad spectrum of defense programs and believes that no one program accounted for more than 1% of its 2013 net sales. The substantial majority of these sales are related to both U.S. and foreign military and defense programs. The Company’s sales are generally to contractors and subcontractors of the U.S. or foreign governments or to distributors that in turn sell to the contractors and subcontractors. Accordingly, the Company’s sales are affected by changes in the defense budgets of the U.S. and foreign governments. A significant decline in U.S. defense expenditures and foreign government defense expenditures generally could adversely affect the Company’s business and have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
 
The Company encounters competition in substantially all areas of its business.
 
The Company competes primarily on the basis of technology innovation, product quality, price, customer service and delivery time. Competitors include large, diversified companies, some of which have substantially greater assets and financial resources than the Company, as well as medium to small companies. There can be no assurance that additional competitors will not enter the Company’s existing markets, nor can there be any assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition, and the inability to do so could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
The Company is dependent on the acceptance of new product introductions for continued revenue growth.
 
The Company estimates that products introduced in the last two years accounted for approximately 20% of 2013 net sales. The Company’s long-term results of operations depend substantially upon its ability to continue to conceive, design, source and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of its existing and future product lines. In the ordinary course of business, the Company continually develops or creates new product line concepts. If the Company fails to or is significantly delayed in introducing new product line concepts or if the Company’s new products do not meet with market acceptance, its business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.
 
Covenants in the Company’s credit agreements may adversely affect the Company.
 
The Credit Agreement, amended on July 1, 2013, among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and a syndicate of financial institutions (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a limit on priority indebtedness and limits on incurrence of liens. Although the Company believes none of these covenants is presently restrictive to the Company’s operations, the ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond the Company’s control, and the Company cannot provide assurance that it will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Revolving Credit Facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of the Company’s credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, the Company may not have sufficient assets to repay the Revolving Credit Facility and other indebtedness.
 
9






Table of Contents
 
Downgrades of the Company’s debt rating could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.
 
If the credit rating agencies that rate the Company’s debt were to downgrade the Company’s credit rating in conjunction with a deterioration of the Company’s performance, it may increase the Company’s cost of capital and make it more difficult for the Company to obtain new financing, which could adversely affect the Company’s business.
 
The Company’s results may be negatively affected by changing interest rates.
 
The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on the Company’s financing activities. As of December 31, 2013, $1,034.1 million, or 48% of the Company’s outstanding borrowings, were subject to floating interest rates, primarily LIBOR.  The Company has $600.0 million of unsecured Senior Notes due November 2014 outstanding, which were issued at 99.813% of their face value and which have a fixed interest rate of 4.75% (the “4.75% Senior Notes”).  The Company has $500.0 million of unsecured Senior Notes due February 2022 outstanding, which were issued at 99.746% of their face value and which have a fixed interest rate of 4.00% (the “4.00% Senior Notes”).  Additionally, in January 2014 the Company issued $750.0 million of unsecured Senior Notes due January 2019 which were issued at 99.846% of their face value and have a fixed interest rate of 2.55% (the “2.55% Senior Notes”).  The Company used the net proceeds from the sale of the 2.55% Senior Notes to repay borrowings under the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility, which reduced the Company’s interest rate exposure.
 
A 10% change in LIBOR at December 31, 2013 would have no material effect on the Company’s interest expense. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates to have a material effect on income or cash flows in 2014, although there can be no assurances that interest rates will not significantly change.
 
The Company’s results may be negatively affected by foreign currency exchange rates.
 
The Company conducts business in many international currencies through its worldwide operations, and as a result is subject to foreign exchange exposure due to changes in exchange rates of the various currencies. Changes in exchange rates can positively or negatively affect the Company’s sales, gross margins and equity. The Company attempts to minimize currency exposure risk in a number of ways including producing its products in the same country or region in which the products are sold, thereby generating revenues and incurring expenses in the same currency, cost reduction and pricing actions, and working capital management.  However, there can be no assurance that these actions will be fully effective in managing currency risk, especially in the event of a significant and sudden decline in the value of any of the international currencies of the Company’s worldwide operations, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial conditions.
 
The Company is subject to the risks of political, economic and military instability in countries outside the United States, including China.
 
Non-U.S. markets account for a substantial portion of the Company’s business.  During 2013, non-U.S. markets constituted approximately 69% of the Company’s net sales, with China constituting approximately 27% of the Company’s net sales. The Company employs more than 88% of its workforce outside the United States. The Company’s customers are located throughout the world and it has many manufacturing, administrative and sales facilities outside the United States. Because the Company has extensive non-U.S. operations as well as significant cash and cash investments held at institutions located outside of the U.S., it is exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales, profitability or the liquidity of such cash and cash investments including:
 
·                  tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes;
·                  regulations related to customs and import/export matters;
·                  longer payment cycles;
·                  tax issues, such as tax law changes, examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country as compared to the U.S. and difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner;
·                  challenges in collecting accounts receivable;
·                  employment regulations and local labor conditions;
·                  difficulties protecting intellectual property;
·                  instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and
·                  the impact of each of the foregoing on outsourcing and procurement arrangements.
 
10






Table of Contents
 
The Company may experience difficulties and unanticipated expense of assimilating newly acquired businesses, including the potential for the impairment of goodwill.
 
The Company has completed a number of acquisitions in the past few years and anticipates that it will continue to pursue acquisition opportunities as part of its growth strategy.  The Company may experience difficulty and unanticipated expense in integrating such acquisitions and the acquisitions may not perform as expected. At December 31, 2013, the total assets of the Company were $6,168.0 million, which included $2,289.1 million of goodwill (the excess of fair value of consideration paid over the fair value of net identifiable assets of businesses acquired). The Company performs annual evaluations for the potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill. Such evaluations have not resulted in the need to recognize an impairment. However, if the financial performance of the Company’s businesses were to decline significantly, the Company could incur a material non-cash charge to its income statement for the impairment of goodwill.
 
The Company may experience difficulties in obtaining a consistent supply of materials at stable pricing levels, which could adversely affect its results of operations.
 
The Company uses basic materials like aluminum, brass, copper, bi-metallic products, gold, plastic resins, silver and steel in its manufacturing processes. Volatility in the prices of such material and availability of supply may have a substantial impact on the price the Company pays for such materials. In addition, to the extent such cost increases cannot be recovered through sales price increases or productivity improvements, the Company’s margin may decline.
 
The Company may not be able to attract and retain key employees.
 
The Company’s continued success depends upon its continued ability to hire and retain key employees at its operations around the world. Any difficulties in obtaining or retaining the management and other human resource competencies that the Company needs to achieve its business objectives may have an adverse effect on the Company’s performance.
 
Changes in general economic conditions and other factors beyond the Company’s control may adversely impact its business.
 
The following factors could adversely impact the Company’s business:
 
·                  A global economic slowdown in any of the Company’s market segments;
·                  The effects of significant changes in monetary and fiscal policies in the U.S. and abroad including significant income tax changes, currency fluctuations and unforeseen inflationary pressures;
·                  Rapid material escalation of the cost of regulatory compliance and litigation;
·                  Unexpected government policies and regulations affecting the Company or its significant customers;
·                  Unforeseen intergovernmental conflicts or actions, including but not limited to armed conflict and trade wars;
·                  Unforeseen interruptions to the Company’s business with its largest customers, distributors and suppliers resulting from but not limited to, strikes, financial instabilities, computer malfunctions, inventory excesses or natural disasters;
·                  Increases in employment costs, particularly in low-cost regions in which the Company currently operates; and
·                  Changes in assumptions, such as discount rates and lower than expected investment performance related to the Company’s benefit plans.
 
Item 1B