Item 1A herein.
 
Customers
 
The Company’s products are used in a wide variety of applications by numerous customers.  No single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 or 2010. The Company sells its products to over 10,000 customer locations worldwide. The Company’s products are sold directly to OEMs, EMSs, ODMs, cable system operators, information technology companies and through manufacturers’ representatives and distributors. There has been a trend on the part of OEM customers to consolidate their lists of qualified suppliers to companies that have a broad portfolio of leading technology solutions, design capability, global presence, and the ability to meet quality and delivery standards while maintaining competitive prices.
 
The Company has focused its global resources to position itself to compete effectively in this environment. The Company has concentrated its efforts on service and productivity improvements including advanced computer aided design and manufacturing systems, statistical process controls and just-in-time inventory programs to increase product quality and shorten product delivery schedules. The Company’s strategy is to provide comprehensive design capabilities, a broad selection of products and a high level of service in the areas in which it competes. The Company has achieved a preferred supplier designation from many of its customers.
 
The Company’s sales to distributors represented approximately 13% of the Company’s 2012 sales. The Company’s recognized brand names including “Amphenol”, “Times Fiber”, and others, together with the Company’s strong connector design-in position (products that are specified in customer drawings), enhance its ability to reach the secondary market through its network of distributors.
 
Manufacturing
 
The Company employs advanced manufacturing processes including molding, stamping, plating, turning, extruding, die casting and assembly operations as well as proprietary process technology for specialty and coaxial cable production. The Company’s manufacturing facilities are generally vertically integrated operations from the initial design stage through final design and manufacturing.
 
Outsourcing of certain fabrication processes is used when cost-effective. Substantially all of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are certified to the ISO9000 series of quality standards, and many of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are certified to other quality standards, including QS9000, ISO14000, TS16949 and TS16469.
 
The Company employs a global manufacturing strategy to lower its production costs and to improve service to customers. The Company sources its products on a worldwide basis with manufacturing and assembly operations in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Australia. To better serve certain high volume customers, the Company has established just-in-time facilities near these major customers.
 
6

 






Table of Contents
 
The Company’s policy is to maintain strong cost controls in its manufacturing and assembly operations. The Company is continually evaluating and adjusting its expense levels and workforce to reflect current business conditions and maximize the return on capital investments.
 
The Company purchases a wide variety of raw materials for the manufacture of its products, including precious metals such as gold and silver used in plating, aluminum, brass, steel, copper and bimetallic products used for cable, contacts and connector shells, and plastic materials used for cable and connector bodies and inserts. Such raw materials are generally available throughout the world and are purchased locally from a variety of suppliers. The Company is generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials, or if one source is used the Company attempts to protect itself through long-term supply agreements.
 
Research and Development
 
The Company’s research and development expense for the creation of new and improved products and processes was $92.5 million, $88.9 million and $77.6 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company’s research and development activities focus on selected product areas and are performed by individual operating divisions. Generally, the operating divisions work closely with OEM customers to develop highly-engineered products and systems that meet specific customer needs. The Company focuses its research and development efforts primarily on those product areas that it believes have the potential for broad market applications and significant sales within a one-to-three year period.
 
Trademarks and Patents
 
The Company owns a number of active patents and trademarks worldwide. The Company also regards its trademarks “Amphenol” and “Times Fiber” to be of material value in its businesses. The Company has exclusive rights in all its major markets to use these registered trademarks. The Company has rights to other registered and unregistered trademarks which it believes to be of value to its businesses. While the Company considers its patents and trademarks to be valuable assets, the Company does not believe that its competitive position is dependent on patent or trademark protection or that its operations are dependent on any individual patent or trademark.
 
Competition
 
The Company encounters competition in substantially all areas of its business. The Company competes primarily on the basis of technology innovation, product quality, price, customer service and delivery time. Competitors include large, diversified companies, some of which have substantially greater assets and financial resources than the Company, as well as medium to small companies. In the area of coaxial cable for cable television, the Company believes that it and CommScope, Inc. are the primary world providers of such cable; however, CommScope, Inc. is larger than the Company in this market. In addition, the Company faces competition from other companies that have concentrated their efforts in one or more areas of the coaxial cable market.
 
Backlog
 
The Company estimates that its backlog of unfilled orders was $800 million and $746 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Orders typically fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on customer demand and general business conditions. Unfilled orders may generally be cancelled prior to shipment of goods. It is expected that all or a substantial portion of the backlog will be filled within the next 12 months. Significant elements of the Company’s business, such as sales to the communications related markets (including wireless communications, information technology and communications and broadband communications) and sales to distributors, generally have short lead times. Therefore, backlog may not be indicative of future demand.
 
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2012, the Company had approximately 41,600 employees worldwide of which approximately 33,400 were located in lower cost regions. Of these employees, approximately 34,900 were hourly employees and the remainder were salaried employees. The Company believes that it has a good relationship with its unionized and non-unionized employees.
 
Environmental Matters
 
Certain operations of the Company are subject to environmental laws and regulations which govern the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, as well as the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. The Company believes that its operations are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that the costs of continuing compliance will not have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, result of operations or cash flows.
 
Owners and occupiers of sites containing hazardous substances, as well as generators of hazardous substances, are subject to broad liability under various environmental laws and regulations, including expenditures for cleanup and monitoring costs and
 
7






Table of Contents
 
potential damages arising out of past disposal activities. Such liability in many cases may be imposed regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal activity. The Company has performed remediation activities and is currently performing operations and maintenance and monitoring activities at three off-site disposal sites previously utilized by the Company’s facility in Sidney, New York, and others - the Richardson Hill Road landfill, the Route 8 landfill and the Sidney landfill.  Actions at the Richardson Hill Road and Sidney landfills were undertaken subsequent to designation as “Superfund” sites on the National Priorities List under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. The Route 8 landfill was designated as a New York State Inactive Hazardous Waste Disposal Site, with remedial actions taken pursuant to Chapter 6, Section 375-1 of the New York Code of Rules and Regulations. In addition, the Company is currently performing monitoring activities at, and in proximity to, its manufacturing site in Sidney, New York. The Company is also engaged in remediating or monitoring environmental conditions at certain of its other manufacturing facilities and has been named as a potentially responsible party for cleanup costs at other off-site disposal sites.
 
Subsequent to the acquisition of Amphenol from Allied Signal Corporation (“Allied Signal”) in 1987 (Allied Signal merged with Honeywell International Inc. in December 1999 (“Honeywell”)), the Company and Honeywell were named jointly and severally liable as potentially responsible parties in connection with several environmental cleanup sites. The Company and Honeywell jointly consented to perform certain investigations and remediation and monitoring activities at the Route 8 landfill and the Richardson Hill Road landfill, and they were jointly ordered to perform work at the Sidney landfill, all as referred to above. All of the costs incurred relating to these three sites are currently reimbursed by Honeywell based on an agreement (the “Honeywell Agreement”) entered into in connection with the acquisition in 1987. The environmental investigation, remediation and monitoring activities identified by the Company, including those referred to above, are covered under the Honeywell Agreement.  Management does not believe that the costs associated with resolution of these or any other environmental matters will have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition, result of operations or cash flows.
 
Since 1987, the Company has not been identified nor has it been named as a potentially responsible party with respect to any other significant on-site or off-site hazardous waste matters. In addition, the Company believes that its manufacturing activities and disposal practices since 1987 have been in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Nonetheless, it is possible that the Company will be named as a potentially responsible party in the future with respect to additional Superfund or other sites. Although the Company is unable to predict with any reasonable certainty the extent of its ultimate liability with respect to any pending or future environmental matters, the Company believes, based upon information currently known by management about the Company’s manufacturing activities, disposal practices and estimates of liability with respect to known environmental matters, that any such liability will not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition, result of operations or cash flows.
 
Other
 
The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K and all of the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are available to view, without charge, on the Company’s web site, www.amphenol.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Copies are also available without charge, from Amphenol Corporation, Investor Relations, 358 Hall Avenue, Wallingford, CT 06492.
 
Cautionary Information for Purposes of Forward Looking Statements
 
Statements made by the Company in written or oral form to various persons, including statements made in this annual report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC, that are not strictly historical facts are “forward looking” statements. Such statements should be considered as subject to uncertainties that exist in the Company’s operations and business environment. Certain of the risk factors, assumptions or uncertainties that could cause the Company to fail to conform with expectations and predictions are described below under the caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item IA and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K.  Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or should the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this annual report on Form 10-K as anticipated, believed, estimated or expected.  We do not intend to update these forward looking statements.
 
8






Table of Contents
 
Item 1A. Risk Factors
 
Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business and operations.
 
If actions taken by management to limit, monitor or control financial enterprise risk exposures are not successful, the Company’s business and consolidated financial statements could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment.
 
The Company is dependent on the communications industry, including information technology and data communications, wireless communications and broadband communications.
 
Approximately 57% of the Company’s 2012 revenues came from sales to the communications industry, including information technology and data communication, wireless communications and broadband communications of which 20% of the Company’s 2012 revenues came from sales to the wireless device market. Demand for these products is subject to rapid technological change (see below—“The Company is dependent on the acceptance of new product introductions for continued revenue growth”). These markets are dominated by several large manufacturers and operators who regularly exert significant price pressure on their suppliers, including the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete successfully in the communications industry, and the Company’s failure to do so could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
 
Approximately 7% and 10% of the Company’s 2012 revenues came from sales to the broadband communications and wireless infrastructure markets, respectively. Demand for the Company’s products in these markets depends primarily on capital spending by operators for constructing, rebuilding or upgrading their systems. The amount of this capital spending and, therefore, the Company’s sales and profitability will be affected by a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, consolidation within the communications industry, the financial condition of operators and their access to financing, competition, technological developments, new legislation and regulation of operators. There can be no assurance that existing levels of capital spending will continue or that spending will not decrease.
 
Changes in defense expenditures may reduce the Company’s sales.
 
Approximately 14% of the Company’s 2012 revenues came from sales to the military market. The Company participates in a broad spectrum of defense programs and believes that no one program accounted for more than 1% of its 2012 revenues. The substantial majority of these sales are related to both U.S. and foreign military and defense programs. The Company’s sales are generally to contractors and subcontractors of the U.S. or foreign governments or to distributors that in turn sell to the contractors and subcontractors. Accordingly, the Company’s sales are affected by changes in the defense budgets of the U.S. and foreign governments. A significant decline in U.S. defense expenditures and foreign government defense expenditures generally could adversely affect the Company’s business and have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
 
The Company encounters competition in substantially all areas of its business.
 
The Company competes primarily on the basis of technology innovation, product quality, price, customer service and delivery time. Competitors include large, diversified companies, some of which have substantially greater assets and financial resources than the Company, as well as medium to small companies. There can be no assurance that additional competitors will not enter the Company’s existing markets, nor can there be any assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition, and the inability to do so could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
The Company is  dependent on the acceptance of new product introductions for continued revenue growth.
 
The Company estimates that products introduced in the last two years accounted for approximately 24% of 2012 net sales. The Company’s long-term results of operations depend substantially upon its ability to continue to conceive, design, source and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of its existing and future product lines. In the ordinary course of business, the Company continually develops or creates new product line concepts. If the Company fails to or is significantly delayed in introducing new product line concepts or if the Company’s new products do not meet with market acceptance, its business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.
 
Covenants in the Company’s credit agreements may adversely affect the Company.
 
The Credit Agreement, amended on June 30, 2011, among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and a syndicate of financial institutions (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to
 
9






Table of Contents
 
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a limit on priority indebtedness and limits on incurrence of liens. Although the Company believes none of these covenants is presently restrictive to the Company’s operations, the ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond the Company’s control, and the Company cannot provide assurance that it will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Revolving Credit Facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of the Company’s credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, the Company may not have sufficient assets to repay the Revolving Credit Facility and other indebtedness.
 
Downgrades of the Company’s debt rating could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.
 
If the credit rating agencies that rate the Company’s debt were to downgrade the Company’s credit rating in conjunction with a deterioration of the Company’s performance, it may increase the Company’s cost of capital and make it more difficult for the Company to obtain new financing, which could adversely affect the Company’s business.
 
The Company’s results may be negatively affected by changing interest rates.
 
The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on the Company’s financing activities. As of December 31, 2012, $608.1 million, or 36% of the Company’s outstanding borrowings, were subject to floating interest rates, primarily LIBOR.  The Company has $600.0 million of unsecured Senior Notes due November 2014 outstanding, which were issued at 99.813% of their face value and which have a fixed interest rate of 4.75% (the “4.75% Senior Notes”).  The Company has $500.0 million of unsecured Senior Notes due February 2022 outstanding, which were issued at 99.746% of their face value and which have a fixed interest rate of 4.00% (the “4.00% Senior Notes”).
 
A 10% change in LIBOR at December 31, 2012 would have no material effect on the Company’s interest expense. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates to have a material effect on income or cash flows in 2013, although there can be no assurances that interest rates will not significantly change.
 
The Company’s results may be negatively affected by foreign currency exchange rates.
 
The Company conducts business in many international currencies through its worldwide operations, and as a result is subject to foreign exchange exposure due to changes in exchange rates of the various currencies. Changes in exchange rates can positively or negatively affect the Company’s sales, gross margins and equity. The Company attempts to minimize currency exposure risk in a number of ways including producing its products in the same country or region in which the products are sold, thereby generating revenues and incurring expenses in the same currency, cost reduction and pricing actions, and working capital management.  However, there can be no assurance that these actions will be fully effective in managing currency risk, especially in the event of a significant and sudden decline in the value of any of the international currencies of the Company’s worldwide operations, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial conditions.
 
The Company is subject to the risks of political, economic and military instability in countries outside the United States.
 
Non-U.S. markets account for a substantial portion of the Company’s business.  During 2012, non-U.S. markets constituted approximately 68% of the Company’s net sales. The Company employs more than 90% of its workforce outside the United States. The Company’s customers are located throughout the world and it has many manufacturing, administrative and sales facilities outside the United States. Because the Company has extensive non-U.S. operations as well as significant cash and cash investments held at institutions located outside of the U.S., it is exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales, profitability or the liquidity of such cash and cash investments including:
 
·                  tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes;
·                  regulations related to customs and import/export matters;
·                  longer payment cycles;
·                  tax issues, such as tax law changes, examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country as compared to the United States and difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner;
·                  challenges in collecting accounts receivable;
·                  employment regulations and local labor conditions;
·                  difficulties protecting intellectual property;
·                  instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and
·                  the impact of each of the foregoing on outsourcing and procurement arrangements.
 
10






Table of Contents
 
The Company may experience difficulties and unanticipated expense of assimilating newly acquired businesses, including the potential for the impairment of goodwill.
 
The Company has completed a number of acquisitions in the past few years and anticipates that it will continue to pursue acquisition opportunities as part of its growth strategy.  The Company may experience difficulty and unanticipated expense in integrating such acquisitions and the acquisitions may not perform as expected. At December 31, 2012, the total assets of the Company were $5,215.5 million, which included $1,932.7 million of goodwill (the excess of fair value of consideration paid over the fair value of net identifiable assets of businesses acquired). The Company performs annual evaluations for the potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill. Such evaluations have not resulted in the need to recognize an impairment. However, if the financial performance of the Company’s businesses were to decline significantly, the Company could incur a material non-cash charge to its income statement for the impairment of goodwill.
 
The Company may experience difficulties in obtaining a consistent supply of materials at stable pricing levels, which could adversely affect its results of operations.
 
The Company uses basic materials like steel, aluminum, brass, copper, bi-metallic products, silver, gold and plastic resins in its manufacturing processes. Volatility in the prices of such material and availability of supply may have a substantial impact on the price the Company pays for such materials. In addition, to the extent such cost increases cannot be recovered through sales price increases or productivity improvements, the Company’s margin may decline.
 
The Company may not be able to attract and retain key employees.
 
The Company’s continued success depends upon its continued ability to hire and retain key employees at its operations around the world. Any difficulties in obtaining or retaining the management and other human resource competencies that the Company needs to achieve its business objectives may have an adverse effect on the Company’s performance.
 
Changes in general economic conditions and other factors beyond the Company’s control may adversely impact its business.
 
The following factors could adversely impact the Company’s business:
 
·                  A global economic slowdown in any of the Company’s market segments;
·                  The effects of significant changes in monetary and fiscal policies in the U.S. and abroad including significant income tax changes, currency fluctuations and unforeseen inflationary pressures;
·                  Rapid material escalation of the cost of regulatory compliance and litigation;
·                  Unexpected government policies and regulations affecting the Company or its significant customers;
·                  Unforeseen intergovernmental conflicts or actions, including but not limited to armed conflict and trade wars;
·                  Unforeseen interruptions to the Company’s business with its largest customers, distributors and suppliers resulting from but not limited to, strikes, financial instabilities, computer malfunctions, inventory excesses or natural disasters; and
·                  Increases in employment costs, particularly in low-cost regions in which the Company currently operates.
 
Item 1B