Item 1A. Risk Factors

Investors should carefully consider the risks described
below and all other information in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems
immaterial may also impair the Company’s business and operations.

If
any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial
condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
In such case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline and
investors may lose all or part of their investment.

The Company is dependent on the communications industry,
including telecommunication and data communication, wireless communications and
broadband communications.

Approximately
60% of the Company’s revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 came from
sales to the communications industry, including telecommunication and data
communication, wireless communications and broadband communications. Demand for
these products is subject to rapid technological change (see below—”The Company
is dependent on the acceptance of new product introductions for continued
revenue growth”). These markets are dominated by several large manufacturers
and operators who regularly exert significant price pressure on their
suppliers, including the Company. While sales to the
Company’s largest customer accounted for
approximately 7% of consolidated sales in 2007, the loss of one or more of the
large communications customers could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s business. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
continue to compete successfully in the communications industry, and the
Company’s failure to do so could impair the Company’s results of operations.

Approximately
10% of the Company’s 2007 revenues came from sales to the broadband communications
industry. Demand for the Company’s broadband communications products depends
primarily on capital spending by cable television operators for constructing,
rebuilding or upgrading their systems. The amount of this capital spending,
and, therefore, the Company’s sales and profitability will be affected by a
variety of factors, including general economic conditions, acquisitions of
cable television operators by non-cable television operators, cable system
consolidation within the industry, the financial condition of domestic cable
television operators and their access to financing, competition from satellite,
telephone and television providers and telephone companies, technological
developments and new legislation and regulation of cable television operators.
There can be no assurance that existing levels of cable television capital
spending will continue or that cable television spending will not decrease.

Changes in defense expenditures may reduce the Company’s
sales.

Approximately
15% of the Company’s 2007 revenues came from sales to the military market. The
Company participates in a broad spectrum of defense programs and believes that
no one program accounted for more than 1% of its 2007 revenues. The substantial
majority of these sales are related to both U.S. and foreign military and
defense programs. However, the Company’s sales are generally to contractors and
subcontractors of the U.S. or foreign governments or to distributors that in
turn sell to the contractors and subcontractors. Nevertheless, the Company’s
sales are affected by changes in the defense budgets of the U.S. and foreign
governments. The U.S. defense budget declined in real terms from 1986 to 1998.
Beginning in 1999, the U.S. defense budget has been increasing and increased again
in 2007. Nevertheless, a decline in U.S. defense expenditures and defense expenditures
generally could adversely affect the Company’s business.

The Company encounters competition in substantially all areas
of its business.

The
Company competes primarily on the basis of engineering, product quality, price,
customer service and delivery time. Competitors include large, diversified
companies, some of which have substantially greater assets and financial
resources than the Company, as well as medium to small companies. There can be
no assurance that additional competitors will not enter the Company’s existing
markets, nor can there be any assurance that the Company will be able to
compete successfully against existing or new competition.

 

10












The Company is
dependent on the acceptance of new product
introductions for continued revenue growth.

The
Company estimates that products introduced in the last two years accounted for
approximately 26% of 2007 net sales. The Company’s long-term results of
operations depend substantially upon its ability to continue to conceive,
design, source and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of
its existing and future product lines. In the ordinary course of business, the
Company continually develops or creates new product line concepts. If the
Company fails or is significantly delayed in introducing new product line
concepts or if the Company’s new products do not meet with market acceptance,
our results of operations may be impaired.

Covenants in the Company’s credit agreements may adversely
affect the Company.

The
Company’s bank credit agreements contain financial and other covenants, such as
a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, minimum levels of net worth, and limits on incurrence of
liens. Although the Company believes none of these covenants are presently restrictive
to the Company’s operations, the ability to meet the financial covenants can be
affected by events beyond the Company’s control, and the Company cannot provide
assurance that the Company will meet those tests. A breach of any of these
covenants could result in a default under the Company’s credit agreements. Upon
the occurrence of an event of default under any of the Company’s credit
facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding
thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to
extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings,
the Company cannot provide assurance that it will have sufficient assets to
repay the Company’s credit facilities and other indebtedness. See “Liquidity
and Capital Resources”.

Downgrades of the Company’s debt rating could adversely
affect the Company’s results of operations and financial possition.

If
the credit rating agencies that rate the Company’s debt were to downgrade the
Company’s credit rating in conjunction with a deterioration of the Company’s
performance it may increase the Company’s cost of capital and make it more
difficult for the Company to obtain new financing.

The Company’s results may be negatively affected by changing
interest rates.

The
Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates
based on the Company’s financing activities. The Company utilizes interest rate
swap agreements to manage and mitigate its exposure to changes in interest
rates. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had interest rate protection in the
form of swaps that effectively fixed the Company’s LIBOR interest rate on
$250.0 million, $250.0 million and $150.0 million of floating rate bank debt at
4.24%, 4.85% and 4.40%, expiring in July 2008, December 2008 and December 2009,
respectively.

In
October 2007, the Company entered into interest rate swaps that fix the
Company’s LIBOR interest rate on $250.0 million and $250.0 million of floating
rate bank debt at 4.73% and 4.65% which go into effect in July 2008 and
December 2008 and expire in July 2010 and December 2009, respectively. A 10%
change in the LIBOR interest rate at December 31, 2007 would have the effect of
increasing or decreasing interest expense by approximately $.3 million. The
Company does not expect changes in interest rates to have a material effect on
income or cash flows in 2008, although there can be no assurances that interest
rates will not significantly change.

The Company’s results may be negatively affected by foreign
currency exchange rates.

The
Company conducts business in several international currencies through its
worldwide operations, and as a result is subject to foreign exchange exposure
due to changes in exchange rates of the various currencies. Changes in exchange
rates can positively or negatively affect the Company’s sales, gross margins
and retained earnings. The Company attempts to minimize currency exposure risk
by producing its products in the same country or region in which the products
are sold, thereby generating revenues and incurring expenses in the same
currency and by managing its working capital. There can be no assurance that
this approach will be successful, especially in the event of a significant and
sudden decline in the value of any of the international currencies of the
Company’s worldwide operations. The Company does not engage in purchasing
forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes.

 

11











 

The Company’s operating results may be adversely affected by
foreign operations.

 

International
manufacturing and sales are subject to inherent risks, including changes in
local economic or political conditions, the imposition of currency exchange
restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory environments, potentially
adverse tax consequences and the exchange rate risk discussed above. There can
be no assurance that these factors will not have a material adverse impact on
the Company’s production capabilities or otherwise adversely affect the
Company’s  business and operating results.

 

The Company may experience difficulties and unanticipated
expense, including the potential for the impairment of goodwill, of
assimilating newly acquired businesses.

 

The
Company has completed a number of acquisitions in the past few years. It is
possible the Company may experience difficulty integrating such acquisitions
and further that the acquisitions may not perform as expected. At December 31,
2007, the total assets on the Company’s balance sheet were
$2,675.7 million, which included $1,091.8 million of goodwill. The
goodwill arose as the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net
assets of businesses acquired over the period 1987-2007. The Company performs annual
evaluations for the potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142. Such
evaluations have not resulted in the need to recognize an impairment. However,
if the financial performance of the Company’s businesses were to decline
significantly, the Company could incur a non-cash charge to its income
statement for the impairment of goodwill.

 

The Company may experience difficulties in obtaining a
consistent supply of materials at stable pricing levels.

 

The
Company uses basic materials like steel, aluminum, copper, bi-metallic
products, gold and plastic resins in its manufacturing process. Volatility in
the prices of such material and availability of supply may have a substantial impact
on the price the Company pays for such products. In addition, to the extent
such cost increases cannot be recovered through sales price increases or
productivity improvements, the Company’s margin may decline.

 

The Company may not be able to attract and retain key
employees.

 

The
Company’s continued success depends upon its continued ability to hire and
retain key employees at its operations around the world. Any difficulties in
obtaining or retaining the management and other human resource competencies
that the Company needs to achieve its business objectives may have adverse
affects on the Company’s performance.

 

Changes in general economic conditions and other factors
beyond the Company’s control may adversely impact its business.

 

The following factors could
adversely impact the Company’s business:

 

·                                         
A global economic slowdown in any one, or all,
of the Company’s market segments.

 

·                                         
The effects of significant changes in monetary
and fiscal policies in the U.S. and abroad including significant income tax
changes, currency fluctuations and unforeseen inflationary pressures.

 

·                                         
Rapid material escalation of the cost of
regulatory compliance and litigation.

 

·                                         
Unexpected government policies and regulations
affecting the Company or its significant customers.

 

·                                         
Unforeseen intergovernmental conflicts or actions,
including but not limited to armed conflict and trade wars.

 

·                                         
Unforeseen interruptions to the Company’s
business with its largest customers, distributors and suppliers resulting from
but not limited to, strikes, financial instabilities, computer malfunctions,
inventory excesses or natural disasters.

 

Item 1B