Item 1A. All references to “we”, “us”, “our”, “Activision”
or “the Company” in the following discussion and analysis mean Activision, Inc.
and its subsidiaries.

 

Item 1.          BUSINESS

 

(a)                                  General

 

Activision,
Inc. (“Activision,” the “Company,” or “we”) is a leading international
publisher of interactive entertainment software and peripheral products. We
have built a company with a diverse portfolio of products that spans a wide
range of categories and target markets and that is used on a variety of game
hardware platforms and operating systems. We have created, licensed, and
acquired a group of highly recognizable brands, which we market to a variety of
consumer demographics. Our fiscal 2007 product portfolio included such
best-selling products as Call of Duty 3, Guitar
Hero II, Tony Hawk’s Project 8, Tony Hawk’s Downhill Jam,  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, Over the Hedge, and X-Men:
The Official Game.

 

Our products
cover diverse game categories including action/adventure, action sports,
racing, role-playing, simulation, first-person action, music-based gaming, and
strategy. Our target customer base ranges from casual players to game
enthusiasts, children to adults, and mass-market consumers to “value” buyers. We
currently offer our products primarily in versions that operate on the Sony
PlayStation 2 (“PS2”), Sony PlayStation 3 (“PS3”), Nintendo Wii (“Wii), and
Microsoft Xbox 360 (“Xbox360”) console systems, Nintendo Game Boy Advance (“GBA”),
Sony PlayStation Portable (“PSP”), and Nintendo Dual Screen (“NDS”) hand-held
devices, and the personal computer (“PC”). The installed base for the current
generation of hardware platforms is significant and the fiscal 2006 release of
the Xbox360 and the fiscal 2007 releases of the PS3 and the Wii will further
expand the software market. We had a successful and significant presence at the
launches of the PS3 and the Wii with three launch titles for the PS3, Call of Duty 3, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, and Tony Hawk’s Project 8, and five launch titles for the Wii, Call of Duty 3, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, World Series of Poker:
Tournament of Champions, Rapala Tournament Fishing, and Tony Hawk’s Downhill Jam. Our plan is to continue to build
on our significant launch presence on the PS3, Wii, and Xbox360 (“the
next-generation platforms”) by continuing to expand the number of titles
released on the next generation platforms while continuing to market to
current-generation platforms as long as economically attractive given their
large installed base.

 

Our publishing
business involves the development, marketing, and sale of products directly, by
license, or through our affiliate label program with certain third-party
publishers. Our distribution business consists of operations in Europe that
provide logistical and sales services to third-party publishers of interactive
entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of
interactive entertainment hardware.

 

We were
originally incorporated in California in 1979. In December 1992, we
reincorporated in Delaware. In June 2000, we reorganized into the current
holding company organizational structure.

 

In April 2003, the Board of Directors approved a three-for-two split of
our outstanding common shares effected in the form of a 50% stock dividend. The
split was paid on June 6, 2003 to shareholders of record as of May 16, 2003. In
February 2004, the Board of Directors approved a three-for-two split of our
outstanding common shares effected in the form of a 50% stock dividend. The
split was paid on March 15, 2004 to shareholders of record as of February 23,
2004. In February 2005, the Board of Directors approved a four-for-three split
of our outstanding common shares effected in the form of a 33-1/3% stock
dividend. The split was paid March 22, 2005 to shareholders

 

3












 

of record as
of March 7, 2005. In September 2005, the Board of Directors approved a
four-for-three split of our outstanding common shares effected in the form of a
33-1/3% stock dividend. The split was paid October 24, 2005 to shareholders of
record as of October 10, 2005. The par value of our common stock was maintained
at the pre-split amount of $.000001. All share and per share data have been restated
as if the stock splits had occurred as of the earliest period presented.

 

(b)                                Business
Combinations

 

We have
completed a number of acquisitions of both software development companies and
interactive entertainment product distribution companies. In fiscal 2007, we
acquired video game publisher RedOctane Inc., the publisher of the popular
Guitar Hero franchise. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional
information regarding the accounting treatment of these and prior acquisitions.

 

(c)                                 Financial
Information About Industry Segments

 

We have two
reportable segments: publishing and distribution. Publishing relates to the
development (both internally and externally), marketing and sale of DVD, CD,
UMD, online, and cartridge-based interactive entertainment software and
peripheral products owned or controlled by us directly, by license, or through
our affiliate label program with certain third-party publishers. Distribution
primarily refers to logistical and sales services provided by our European
distribution subsidiaries to third-party publishers of interactive
entertainment software, our own publishing operations and manufacturers of
interactive entertainment hardware. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain
financial information regarding reporting segment and geographic areas required
by Item 1.

 

(d)                                Narrative
Description of Business

 

Our objective
is to be a worldwide leader in the development, publishing, and distribution of
quality interactive entertainment software and peripheral products that deliver
a highly satisfying consumer entertainment experience. Our business strategy,
the key components of our business operations, and the risk factors that could
impact our business are detailed below.

 

Strategy

 

Create,
Acquire, and Maintain Strong Brands. We focus
development and publishing activities principally on products that are, or have
the potential to become, franchise properties with sustainable consumer appeal
and brand recognition. It is our experience that these products can then serve
as the basis for sequels, prequels, and related new products that can be
released over an extended period of time. We believe that the publishing and
distribution of products based in large part on franchise properties enhances
predictability of revenues and the probability of high unit volume sales and
operating profits. We have entered into a series of strategic relationships
with the owners of intellectual property pursuant to which we have acquired the
rights to publish products based on franchises such as Marvel Characters, Inc. properties,
including Spider-Man and X-Men. We have
a multi-year, multi-property, publishing agreement with DreamWorks Animation LLC
that grants us the exclusive rights to publish video games based on DreamWorks
Animation SKG’s theatrical release “Shrek 2,” which was released in the first
quarter of fiscal 2005, “Shark Tale,” which was released in the second quarter
of fiscal 2005, “Madagascar,” which was released in the first quarter of fiscal
2006, “Over the Hedge,” which was released in the first quarter of fiscal 2007,
and all of their respective forthcoming sequels, including “Shrek the Third,”
which was released in May 2007, and “Madagascar 2.”  As part of our agreement with DreamWorks
Animation, we have the exclusive video game rights to potential future films in
the “Shrek” franchise beyond “Shrek the Third,” upcoming movies, including “Bee
Movie” and “Kung Fu Panda,” as well as other films currently in development,
including “Creature Feature” and “How to Train Your Dragon.”  We have a strategic alliance with
Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. that grants us the exclusive, worldwide interactive
rights to develop and publish “World Series of Poker” video games based on the
popular World Series of Poker Tournament. We also have a strategic relationship
with professional skateboarder Tony Hawk through an exclusive multi-year
agreement to develop video games using his name and likeness. Through fiscal
2007, we have released eight successful titles in the Tony Hawk franchise. We
also have created a number of successful internally developed intellectual
properties such as the True Crime and Call of Duty franchise properties, and GUN. We also have agreements with MGM
Interactive and EON Productions Ltd. to develop and publish video games based
on the James Bond license and with Hasbro Properties Group (“Hasbro”) to
develop and publish video games based on the “Transformers” brand. We plan on
releasing our first title under the Hasbro license, Transformers
the Game,

 

4












 

concurrently with the DreamWorks Pictures and Paramount Pictures
Corporation motion picture release, “Transformers,” in July 2007.

 

Execute
Disciplined Product Selection and Development Processes. The
success of our publishing business depends, in significant part, on our ability
to develop high quality games that will generate high unit volume sales. Our
publishing units have implemented a formal control process for the selection,
development, production, and quality assurance of our products. We apply this
process, which we refer to as the “Greenlight Process,” to all of our products,
whether externally or internally developed. The Greenlight Process includes
in-depth reviews of each project at four important stages of development by a
team that includes many of our highest-ranking operating managers and
coordination between our sales and marketing personnel and development staff at
each step in the process.

 

We develop our
products using a combination of our internal development resources and external
development resources acting under contract with us. We typically select our
external developers based on their track record and expertise in producing
products in the same category. One developer will often produce the same game
for multiple platforms and will produce sequels to the original game. We
believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us
to leverage the particular expertise of our internal and external development
resources, which we believe adds to the quality of our products.

 

Create and
Maintain Diversity in Product Mix, Platforms, and Markets. We
believe that maintaining a diversified mix of products can reduce our operating
risks and enhance profitability. Therefore, we develop and publish products
spanning a wide range of product categories, including action/adventure, action
sports, racing, role-playing, simulation, first-person action, music-based
gaming, and strategy. We also develop products designed for target audiences
ranging from casual players to game enthusiasts, children to adults, and
mass-market consumers to “value” buyers. Presently, we concentrate on
developing, publishing, and distributing products that operate on PS2,  PS3, Xbox360, and Wii console systems, GBA,
PSP, and NDS hand-held devices, and the PC. We typically offer our products for
use on multiple platforms in order to reduce the risks associated with any
single platform, leverage our costs over a larger installed hardware base, and
increase unit sales.

 

Continue to
Improve Profitability. We continually strive to manage
risk and increase our operating leverage and efficiency with the goal of
increased profitability. We believe the key factor affecting our future
profitability will be the success rate of our product releases. Therefore, our
product selection and development process includes, as a significant component,
periodic evaluations of the expected commercial success of products under
development. Through this process, for titles that we determine to be less
promising, corrections are made in the development process or, if necessary,
they are discontinued before we incur additional development costs. In
addition, we believe our focus on cross platform releases and branded products
will contribute to improved profitability.

 

We continue to
focus on increasing our margins. We have, for example, acquired certain
experienced and specialized developers in instances where we can enhance
profitability through the elimination of royalty obligations. Additionally, we
often rely on independent third-party interactive entertainment software
developers to develop some of our software products, thereby taking advantage
of specialized independent developers without incurring the fixed overhead
obligations associated with increased internally employed staff.

 

Our sales and
marketing staff work with our studio resources to increase the visibility of
new product launches and to coordinate the timing and promotion of product
releases. Our finance and sales and marketing personnel work together to
improve inventory management and receivables collections. We have instituted
broad, objective-based reward programs that provide incentives to management
and staff throughout the organization to produce results that meet our
financial objectives.

 

Grow
Through Continued Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances. The
interactive entertainment industry has been consolidating, and we believe that
success in this industry will be driven in part by the ability to take
advantage of scale. Specifically, smaller companies are more capital
constrained, enjoy less predictability of revenues and cash flow, lack product
diversity and must spread fixed costs over a smaller revenue base. Several
industry leaders are emerging that combine the entrepreneurial and creative
spirit of the industry with professional management, the ability to access the
capital markets, and the ability to maintain favorable relationships with
developers, intellectual property owners, and retailers. Through numerous
completed acquisitions since 1997, we believe that we have successfully
diversified our operations, our channels of distribution, our development
talent pool, and our library of titles, and have emerged as one of the industry’s
leaders. We intend to continue to evaluate the expansion of our resources
through acquisitions, strategic relationships, and key license transactions. We
intend to continue expanding

 

5












 

our intellectual property library through key license transactions and
strategic relationships with intellectual property owners and to continue to
evaluate opportunities to increase our development capacity through the
acquisition of or investment in selected experienced software development
firms.

 

Products

 

Historically,
we have been best known for our action/adventure, strategy, and simulation
products. We have been successful in the superheroes and skateboarding
categories with our release of titles based on the Spider-Man and X-Men
properties, as well as the Tony Hawk franchise. We have also been successful in
the first person action categories through the Call of Duty original
intellectual property, which we plan on continuing as a successful long-term
franchise. In fiscal 2007 we successfully entered the music-based gaming genre
with the acquisition of the Guitar Hero franchise. This franchise combines
interactive software with a hardware peripheral in the form of a guitar and
provides us with an early leadership position and long-term growth opportunity.
We have established ourselves as a leader in the “value” software publishing
business with products under our Cabela’s, Rapala, World Series of Poker, and
Greg Hasting’s  Paintball
licenses, as well as with products distributed on behalf of our “value”
affiliate label partners. Products published by us in this category are
generally developed by third parties, often under contract with us, and are
marketed under the Activision Value Publishing name. Value software is
typically less sophisticated and less complex, both in terms of the development
process and consumer gameplay.

 

Hardware
Licenses. Our products currently are being developed
or published primarily for PS2, PS3, Wii, and Xbox360 console systems; PSP and
NDS hand-held devices; and PCs. In order to maintain general access to the
console systems and hand-held devices marketplace, we have maintained licenses
for PS2, PS3, Wii, and Xbox360 console systems and GBA, PSP, and NDS hand-held
devices with the owners of each such platform. Each license allows us to create
multiple products for the applicable platform, subject to certain approval
rights which are reserved by each licensor. Each license also requires that we
pay the licensor a per unit royalty for each unit manufactured. In contrast, we
are not required to obtain any license for the development and production of
products for PCs.

 

Intellectual
Property Rights. Many of our current and planned
releases are based on intellectual property, other character or story rights, and
music rights licensed from third parties, as well as a combination of
characters, worlds, and concepts derived from our extensive library of titles,
and original characters and concepts owned and created by us. When publishing
products based on licensed intellectual property rights, we generally seek to
capitalize on the name recognition, marketing efforts, and goodwill associated
with the underlying property. For intellectual property owned by Activision, we
generally attempt to establish such properties as sustainable, long-term game
franchises.

 

In acquiring
intellectual property rights from third parties, we seek to obtain rights to
publish titles across a variety of platforms, to include the ability to produce
multiple titles and to retain rights over an extended period of time. In past
years, we have been able to enter into a series of long-term or multi-product
agreements with owners of various intellectual properties that are well known
throughout the world and to create products based on these recognizable
characters, story lines, or concepts. These agreements typically provide us
with exclusive publishing rights for a specific period of time and, in some
cases, for specified platforms and, in other cases, with renewal rights upon
the satisfaction of certain conditions. The scope of our licensing activities
includes theatrical motion pictures, television shows, animated films and
series, comic books, literary works, music, sports personalities and events,
and celebrities. We intend to continue expanding relationships with our
existing intellectual property partners and to enter into agreements with other
intellectual property owners for additional recognizable properties,
characters, story lines and concepts. However, we may not be able to maintain
or expand our existing relationships or to seek out and sustain new long-term
relationships of similar caliber in the future.

 

Product
Development and Support

 

We develop and
produce titles using a model in which a core group of creative, production, and
technical professionals, in coordination with our marketing and finance
departments, have responsibility for the entire development and production process
including the supervision and coordination of internal and external resources. This
team assembles the necessary creative elements to complete a title using, where
appropriate, outside programmers, artists, animators, scriptwriters, musicians
and songwriters, sound effects and special effects experts, and sound and video
studios. We believe that this model allows us to supplement internal expertise
with top quality external resources on an as-needed basis.

 

6












 

In addition,
we often seek out and engage independent third-party developers to create
products on our behalf. Such products are sometimes owned by us, and usually we
have unlimited rights to commercially exploit these products. In other
circumstances, the third-party developer may retain ownership of the
intellectual property and/or technology included in the product and reserve
certain exploitation rights. We typically select these independent third-party
developers based on their expertise in developing products in a specific
category and use the same developer to produce the same game for multiple
platforms. Each of our third-party developers is under contract with us for
specific or multiple titles. From time to time, we also acquire the license rights
to publish and/or distribute software products that are or will be
independently created by third-party developers. In such cases, the agreements
with such developers provide us with exclusive publishing and/or distribution
rights for a specific period of time, often for specified platforms and
territories. In either case, we often have the ability to publish and/or
distribute sequels, conversions, enhancements, and add-ons to the product
initially being produced by the independent developer and frequently have the
right to engage the services of the original developer with regard to the
development of such products.

 

In
consideration for the services that the independent third-party developer
provides, it receives a royalty generally based on net sales of the product
that it has developed. Typically, the developer also receives an advance, which
we recoup from the royalties otherwise payable to the developer. The advance
generally is paid in “milestone” stages. The payment at each stage is tied to
the completion and delivery of a detailed performance milestone. Some contracts
include minimum guaranteed royalty payments which are recorded as an asset when
actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset
and liability upon execution of the contract. Working with an independent
developer allows us to reduce our fixed development costs, share development
risks with the third-party developer, take advantage of the third-party
developer’s expertise in connection with certain categories of products or
certain platforms, and gain access to proprietary development technologies.

 

From time to
time, we may make a capital investment and hold a minority interest in a
third-party developer in connection with interactive entertainment software
products to be developed by such developer for us, which we believe helps to
create a closer relationship between us and the developer. We account for those
capital investments over which we have the ability to exercise significant
influence using the equity method. For those investments over which we do not
have the ability to exercise significant influence, we account for our
investment using the cost method. There can be no assurance that we will
realize long-term benefits from such investments or that we will continue to
carry such investments at their current value.

 

“Greenlight
Process”

 

We have
adopted and implemented a rigorous procedure for the selection, development,
production, and quality assurance of our internally and externally produced interactive
entertainment software titles. The process, known internally as the “Greenlight
Process,” involves four phases throughout the development and production phases
of a title, each of which includes a number of specific performance milestones.
The four phases of the “Greenlight Process” are the concept, prototype, first
playable, and alpha. This procedure is designed to enable us to manage and
control production and development budgets and timetables, to identify and
address production and technical issues at the earliest opportunity, and to
coordinate marketing and quality control strategies throughout the production
and development phases, all in an environment that fosters creativity. Checks
and balances are intended to be provided through the structured interaction of
the project team with our creative, technical, marketing, and quality
assurance/customer support personnel, as well as our legal, accounting, and
finance departments. In order to maintain the competitiveness of our products
and to take advantage of increasingly sophisticated technology associated with
hardware platforms, our development process includes a significant amount of
time for play-testing new products, and extensive product quality evaluations.

 

Product
Support

 

We provide various
forms of product support to both our internally and externally developed titles.
Our quality assurance personnel are involved throughout the development and
production of each title published by us. We subject all such products to
extensive testing before release to ensure compatibility with all appropriate
hardware systems and configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and
other defects found in the products. To support our products after release, we
provide online access to our customers on a 24-hour basis as well as telephone
operator help lines during regular business hours. The customer support group
tracks customer inquiries and we use this data to help improve the development
and production processes.

 

7












 

Publishing
Activities

 

Marketing

 

Our marketing
efforts include online activities (such as the creation of World Wide Web pages
to promote specific titles), public relations, print and broadcast advertising,
coordinated in-store and industry promotions (including merchandising and point
of purchase displays), participation in cooperative advertising programs,
direct response vehicles, and product sampling through demonstration software
distributed through the Internet or on compact discs. From time to time, we
also receive marketing support from hardware manufacturers and retailers in
connection with their own promotional efforts. In addition, certain of our
products contain software that enables customers to “electronically register”
their purchases with us online.

 

We believe
that certain of our franchise properties have loyal and devoted audiences who
purchase our sequels as a result of dedication to the property and satisfaction
from previous product purchases. We therefore market these sequels both toward
the established market as well as broader audiences. In addition, in marketing
titles based on licensed properties, we believe that we derive benefits from
the continued exploitation of these licensed properties and the marketing and
promotional activities of the property owners.

 

Sales
and Distribution

 

North
America. Our products are available for sale or rental
in thousands of retail outlets domestically. Our North American customers
include Best Buy, Blockbuster, Circuit City, GameStop, Target, Toys “R” Us, and
Wal-Mart. Our largest customers, Wal-Mart and GameStop, accounted for
approximately 22% and 8%, respectively,
of consolidated net revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. For the fiscal
year ended March 31, 2006, our largest customers, Wal-Mart and GameStop,
accounted for 22% and 10%, respectively, of consolidated net revenues.

 

In the United
States and Canada, our products are sold primarily on a direct basis to
mass-market retailers, consumer electronics stores, discount warehouses, and
game specialty stores. We believe that a direct relationship with retail
accounts results in more effective inventory management, merchandising, and
communications than would be possible through indirect relationships. We have
implemented electronic data interchange linkages with many of our retailers to
facilitate the placing and shipping of orders. We sell our products to a
limited number of distributors.

 

International.
Our products are sold internationally on a
direct-to-retail basis, through third-party distribution and licensing
arrangements, and through our wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries. We
conduct our international publishing activities through offices in the United
Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, Canada, Sweden,
Australia, South Korea, and Japan. Whenever practicable, we seek to maximize
our worldwide revenues and profits by releasing high quality foreign language
releases concurrently with English language releases and by continuing to expand
the number of direct selling relationships we maintain with key retailers in
major territories.

 

Affiliate
Labels. In addition to our own products, we distribute
a select number of interactive entertainment products that are developed and
marketed by other third-party publishers through our “affiliate label” programs
in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. The distribution of
other publishers’ products allows us to increase the efficiencies of our sales
force and provides us with the ability to better ensure adequate shelf presence
at retail stores for all of the products that we distribute. Distributing other
publishers’ titles mitigates the risk associated with a particular title or
titles published by us failing to achieve expectations. Services provided by us
under our affiliate label program include order solicitation, in-store
marketing, logistics and order fulfillment, sales channel management, as well
as other accounting and general administrative functions. Our current affiliate
label partners include LucasArts, as well as several affiliate label partners
in our “value” business. Each affiliate label relationship is unique and may
pertain only to distribution in certain geographic territories such as the North
America, Europe, or the Asia Pacific region and may be further limited only to
specific titles or titles for specific platforms.

 

See Note 10 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K for certain financial information regarding reporting segments and
geographic areas required by Item 1.

 

Distribution

 

We distribute
interactive entertainment hardware and software products in Europe through our
European distribution subsidiaries: Centresoft in the United Kingdom; NBG in
Germany; and CD Contact in the Benelux

 

8












 

countries. These subsidiaries act as wholesalers in the distribution of
products and also provide packaging and logistical and sales services. They
provide services to our publishing operations and to various third-party
publishers, including Sony Computer Entertainment (“Sony”), Nintendo Co. Ltd. (“Nintendo”),
and Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”). Centresoft is Sony’s exclusive
distributor of PlayStation products to the independent channel in the United
Kingdom. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, sales for Sony, Nintendo, and
Microsoft accounted for approximately 22%, 6%, and 2%, respectively, of our
worldwide distribution net revenues.

 

We entered
into the distribution business to obtain distribution capacity in Europe for
our own products, while supporting the distribution infrastructure with
third-party sales, and to diversify our operations into the European market. Centresoft
and our other distribution subsidiaries operate in accordance with strict
confidentiality procedures in order to provide independent services to various
third-party publishers.

 

Emerging
Technologies

 

We are
actively supporting emerging platforms (wireless devices, digital downloads, closed
and open online networks, and interactive television) by publishing and
licensing key brands for these emerging platforms. We have published and
licensed rights to various brands, such as Tony Hawk’s Project 8, Tony
Hawk’s Downhill Jam, GUN, Activision Anthology, and Call of Duty 3 for various hand-held wireless devices. We
also develop and optimize many of our titles for consoles that support online
play, such as PS2, Xbox Live on the Xbox360, and the Sony PS3 and Nintendo Wii
consoles. We believe that more of our brands can be successfully published for
wireless and online platforms, as well as exploited through other emerging
technologies, as they continue to evolve.

 

In addition, we
derive revenue from in-game advertising consisting primarily of fixed product
placement. We are developing and expanding on dynamic ad serving technology and
will continue to focus on attracting third parties to advertise in our video
games.

 

Manufacturing

 

We prepare a
set of master program copies, documentation, and packaging materials for our
products for each hardware platform on which the product will be released. Except
with respect to products for use on the Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft systems,
our disk duplication, packaging, printing, manufacturing, warehousing, assembly,
and shipping are performed by third-party subcontractors.

 

To maintain
protection over their hardware technologies, Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft
generally specify or control the manufacturing and assembly of finished
products. We deliver the master materials to the licensor or its approved
replicator, which then manufactures finished goods and delivers them to us for
distribution under our label. At the time our product unit orders are filled by
the manufacturer, we become responsible for the costs of manufacturing and the
applicable per unit royalty on such units, even if the units do not ultimately
sell.

 

To date, we
have not experienced any material difficulties or delays in the manufacture and
assembly of our products or material returns due to product defects.

 

Competition

 

The
interactive entertainment software industry is intensely competitive and new
interactive entertainment software products and platforms are regularly
introduced. Our competitors vary in size from small companies with limited resources
to very large corporations with significantly greater financial, marketing, and
product development resources than we have. Due to their greater resources,
certain of our competitors can spend more money and time on developing and
testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more
aggressive pricing policies, pay higher fees to licensors for desirable motion
picture, television, sports and character properties, and pay more to
third-party software developers than we can. In addition, competitors with
larger product lines and popular titles typically have greater leverage with
retailers, distributors, and other customers who may be willing to promote
titles with less consumer appeal in return for access to such competitor’s most
popular titles. We believe that the main competitive factors in the interactive
entertainment software industry include: product features and playability;
brand name recognition; compatibility of products with popular platforms;
access to distribution channels; quality of products; ease of use; price;
marketing support; and quality of customer service.

 

We compete
primarily with other publishers of personal computer and video game console
interactive entertainment software. Significant third-party software
competitors currently include, among others: Atari, Inc.;

 

9












 

Capcom Co. Ltd.; Eidos PLC; Electronic Arts Inc.; Konami Company Ltd.; Midway
Games Inc.; Namco Bandai Games Ltd.; Sega Enterprises, Ltd.; Take-Two
Interactive Software, Inc.; THQ Inc.; Ubisoft Entertainment; Vivendi Games Publishing;
and the Walt Disney Company. In addition, integrated video game console
hardware and software companies such as Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft compete
directly with us in the development of software titles for their respective
platforms.

 

Employees

 

As of March
31, 2007, we had approximately 2,125 employees, including approximately 1,300 in
product development, 200 in North American publishing, 175 in international publishing,
150 in operations, corporate finance and administration, and 300 in European
distribution activities.

 

As of March
31, 2007, approximately 340 of our full-time employees were subject to term
employment agreements with us. These agreements generally commit such employees
to employment terms of between one and five years from the commencement of
their respective agreements. Most of the employees subject to such agreements
are executive officers or key members of the product development, sales, or marketing
divisions. These individuals perform services for us as executives, directors,
producers, associate producers, computer programmers, game designers, sales
directors, and marketing product managers. The execution by us of employment
agreements with such employees, in our experience, reduces our turnover during
the development, production, and distribution phases of our entertainment
software products and allows us to plan more effectively for future development
and marketing activities.

 

None of our employees
are subject to a collective bargaining agreement except for the employees of
our German distribution subsidiary who are allowed by German law to belong to
an organized labor council. To date, we have not experienced any labor-related
work stoppages.

 

Financial
Information about Foreign Geographic Areas

 

See Item 7 “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and
Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.

 

Available Information

 

Our website is
located at http://www.activision.com. Furthermore, our Annual Report on Form
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge through our website. The
information found on our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated by
reference into, this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the
SEC.

 

Item
1A. RISK FACTORS

 

Our business
is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future
financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below
occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual
results could differ materially from our expectations, and the market value of
our securities could decline. The risks discussed below are not the only ones
we face. Additional risks exist that we do not currently believe to be
material, and there may also be other risks that are not currently known to us,
that may also harm our business and adversely affect our future financial
performance and the market value of our stock.

 

Risks
Factors Relating to the Interactive Entertainment Software Industry and Our
Business

 

We depend on a relatively small number of
brands for a significant portion of our revenues and profits.

 

A significant
portion of our revenues is derived from products based on a relatively small
number of popular brands each year, and these products are responsible for a
disproportionate amount of our profits. In addition, many of these products
have substantial production or acquisition costs and marketing budgets. In
fiscal 2007, 39% of our consolidated net revenues (and 52% of our worldwide
publishing net revenues) was derived from three brands, which

 

10












 

accounted for
17%, 13%, and 9% of consolidated net revenues, respectively (and 23%, 18%, and
11% of worldwide publishing net revenues, respectively). In fiscal 2006, 30% of
our consolidated net revenues (and 38% of our worldwide publishing net
revenues) was derived from three brands, which accounted for 14%, 8%, and 8% of
consolidated net revenues, respectively (and 18%, 10%, and 10% of our worldwide
publishing net revenues, respectively ). In fiscal 2005, 37% of our
consolidated net revenues (and 48% of our worldwide publishing net revenues)
was derived from three brands, which accounted for 16%, 11%, and 10% of
consolidated net revenues, respectively (and 21%, 14%, and 13% of our worldwide
publishing net revenues, respectively). We expect that a limited number of
popular brands will continue to produce a disproportionately large amount of
our revenues and profits. Due to this dependence on a limited number of brands,
the failure to achieve anticipated results by one or more products based on
these brands may significantly harm our business and financial results.

 

Our future success depends on our ability to
release popular products.

 

The life of
any one game product is relatively short and generally involves a relatively
high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by
a rapid decline in sales. Because revenues associated with an initial product
launch generally constitute a high percentage of the total revenues associated
with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following
the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material
adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be
materially different from expectations. It is therefore important for us to be
able to continue to develop many high quality new products that are popularly
received. We focus our development and publishing activities principally on
products that are, or have the potential to become, franchise brand properties.
If we are unable to do this, our business and financial results may be
negatively affected.

 

Our business is “hit” driven. If we do not
deliver “hit” titles, or if consumers prefer competing products, our sales
could suffer.

 

While many new
products are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of “hit”
titles account for a significant portion of net revenue. Competitors may
develop titles that imitate or compete with our “hit” titles, and take sales
away from us or reduce our ability to command premium prices for those titles. Hit
products published by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer
spending than we anticipate, which could cause our product sales to fall below
our expectations. If our competitors develop more successful products or offer
competitive products at lower price, or if we do not continue to develop
consistently high-quality and well received products, our revenue, margins, and
profitability will decline.

 

If we are unable to maintain or acquire
licenses to intellectual property, we may publish fewer “hit” titles and our
revenue may decline.

 

Many of our
products are based on intellectual property and other character or story rights
acquired or licensed from third parties. These license and distribution
agreements are limited in scope and time, and we may not be able to renew key
licenses when they expire or to include new products in existing licenses. The
loss of a significant number of our intellectual property licenses or of our
relationships with licensors, or inability to obtain additional licenses of
significant commercial value could have a material adverse effect on our
ability to develop new products and therefore on our business and financial results.
Additionally, the failure of intellectual property acquired by us to be
popularly received could impact the market acceptance of our products in which
the intellectual property is included. Such lack of market acceptance could
result in the write-off of the unrecovered portion of acquired intellectual
property assets, which could cause material harm to our business and financial
results. Furthermore, the competition for these licenses and distribution
agreements is often intense. Competition for these licenses may also drive up
the advances, guarantees, and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which
could increase our costs.

 

Our business is highly dependent on the
success, timely release and availability of new video game platforms, on the
continued availability of existing video game platforms, as well as our ability
to develop commercially successful products for these platforms.

 

We derive most
of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms
manufactured by third parties, such as Sony’s PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3,
Microsoft’s Xbox 360 and Nintendo’s Wii and DS. The success of our business is
driven in large part by the availability of an adequate supply of these video
game platforms, our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be
successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop commercially
successful products for these platforms. We must make product development
decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of the anticipated
introduction of a new platform. A new platform for which we

 

11












 

are developing
products may be delayed, may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than
anticipated. Alternatively, a platform for which we have not devoted
significant resources could be more successful than we had initially
anticipated, causing us to miss out on a meaningful revenue opportunity. If the
platforms for which we are developing products are not released when
anticipated, are not available in adequate quantities to meet consumer demand,
or do not attain wide market acceptance, our revenue will suffer, we may be
unable to fully recover the investments we have made in developing our
products, and our financial performance will be harmed.

 

Transitions in console platforms could have a
material impact on the market for interactive entertainment software.

 

In fiscal
2006, Microsoft released Xbox and in fiscal 2007, Sony and Nintendo introduced
their respective next-generation hardware platforms, the PlayStation 3 and Wii.
When new console platforms are announced or introduced into the market,
consumers typically reduce their purchases of game console entertainment
software products for current console platforms in anticipation of new platforms
becoming available. During these periods, sales of our game console
entertainment software products may be expected to slow or even decline until
new platforms are introduced and achieve wide consumer acceptance. This decline
may not be offset by increased sales of products for the new console platforms.
As console hardware moves through its life cycle, hardware manufacturers
typically enact price reductions and decreasing prices may put downward
pressure on our software prices. During platform transitions, we may
simultaneously incur costs both in continuing to develop and market new titles
for prior-generation video game platforms, which may not sell at premium
prices, and also in developing products for next-generation platforms, which
will not generate immediate or near-term revenue. As a result, our operating
results during platform transitions may be more volatile and more difficult to
predict than during other times, which may cause greater fluctuations in our
stock price.

 

We must make significant expenditures to
develop products for new platforms which may not be successful or released when
anticipated.

 

We must make
substantial product development and other investments in a particular platform
well in advance of introduction of the platform and we may be required to
realign our product portfolio and development efforts in response to market
changes. Furthermore, development costs for new console platforms are greater
than such costs for current console platforms. If increased costs are not
offset by higher revenues and other cost efficiencies, our operating results
will suffer and our financial position will be harmed. If the platforms for
which we develop new software products or modify existing products are not
released on a timely basis or do not attain significant market penetration, or
if we develop products for a delayed or unsuccessful platform or cancel
development of products in response to market changes, we may not be able to
recover in revenues our development costs, which could be significant, and our
business and financial results could be significantly harmed.

 

In addition,
we seek to release many of our products in conjunction with specific events,
such as the release of a related movie. If we miss these key selling periods
due to product delays or delayed introduction of a new platform for which we
have developed products, our sales will suffer disproportionately.

 

If the average price of prior-generation
titles continues to decline or if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on next-generation
titles, our operating results will suffer.

 

We have
experienced a decrease in the average price of our titles for prior-generation
platforms. As the interactive entertainment industry transitions to
next-generation video game platforms, we expect there to be fewer
prior-generation titles able to command premium prices, and we expect that even
these titles will be subject to price reductions at an earlier point in their
sales cycle than we have seen in prior years. We expect the average price of
prior-generation titles to continue to decline, which may have a negative
effect on our margins and operating results.

 

Our
next-generation titles for the Xbox360, Sony’s PlayStation 3 and the Nintendo
Wii have been offered at premium retail prices since the launch of such
consoles. We expect to continue to price next-generation titles at a premium level,
but if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on these next-generation titles
we may experience a negative effect on our margins and operating results.

 

12












 

Our industry is highly competitive and our
competition may succeed in narrowing our market share and reducing our sales.

 

We compete
primarily with other publishers of personal computer and video game console
interactive entertainment software and peripherals. Our competitors vary in
size from small companies with limited resources to very large corporations
with significantly greater financial, marketing, and product development
resources than we have. In addition, integrated video game console hardware and
software companies such as Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft compete directly with
us in the development of software titles for their respective platforms. Certain
of these competitors can spend more money and time on developing and testing
products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive
pricing policies, pay higher fees to licensors for desirable motion picture,
television, sports, music and character properties, and pay more to third-party
software developers than we can.

 

We also
compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. For example,
we believe that the overall growth in the use of the Internet and online
services by consumers may pose a competitive threat if customers and potential
customers spend less of their available time using interactive entertainment
software and more using the Internet and online services. A number of software
publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are
currently developing online games for use by consumers over the Internet.
Future increased consumer acceptance and increases in the availability of
online games or technological advances in online game software or the Internet
could result in a decline in platform-based software and negatively impact
sales of our products. Direct sales of software over the Internet by
competitors could materially adversely affect our distribution business.

 

Competition in
our industry is intense and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge.

 

Our platform licensors are our chief
competitors and frequently control the manufacturing of and have broad approval
rights over our video game products.

 

Generally,
when we develop interactive entertainment software products for hardware
platforms offered by Sony, Nintendo, or Microsoft, the products are
manufactured exclusively by that hardware manufacturer or their approved
replicator.

 

Our agreements
with these manufacturers include certain provisions, such as approval rights
over all software products and related hardware peripherals and promotional
materials and the ability to change the fee they charge for the manufacturing
of products, which allow them substantial influence over our costs and the
release schedule of our products. In addition, since each of the manufacturers
is also a publisher of games for its own hardware platforms and manufactures
products for all of its other licensees, a manufacturer may give priority to
its own products or those of our competitors in the event of insufficient
manufacturing capacity. Accordingly, Sony, Nintendo, or Microsoft could cause
unanticipated delays in the release of our products as well as increases to our
development, manufacturing, marketing, or distribution costs, which could
materially harm our business and financial results.

 

In addition,
our platform licensors control our ability to provide online game capabilities
for our console platform products and in large part establish the financial
terms on which these services are offered to consumers. Currently, Microsoft
provides online capabilities for the Xbox360 and Sony provides online
capabilities for PS2 and PS3 products. In each case, compatibility code and/or
the consent of the licensor are required for us to include online capabilities
in our products. As these capabilities become more significant, the failure or
refusal of our licensors to approve our products may harm our business.

 

Our platform licensors set the royalty rates
and other fees that we must pay to publish games for their platforms, and
therefore have significant influence on our costs.

 

We pay a
licensing fee to the hardware manufacturer for each copy of a product
manufactured for that manufacturer’s game platform. In order to publish
products for new hardware platforms, we must take a license from the platform
licensor which gives the platform licensor the opportunity to set the fee
structure that we must pay in order to publish games for that platform. Similarly,
the platform licensors have retained the flexibility to change their fee
structures for online gameplay and features for their consoles and the
manufacturing of products. The control that platform licensors have over the
fee structures for their platforms and online access makes it difficult for us
to predict our costs and profitability in the medium to long term. It is also
possible that platform licensors will not renew our licenses. Because
publishing products for console systems is the largest portion of our business,
any increase in fee structures or nonrenewal of licenses would have a
significant negative impact on our business model and profitability.

 

13












 

We rely on independent third parties to
develop some of our software products.

 

We rely on
independent third-party interactive entertainment software developers to
develop some of our software products. Since we depend on these developers, in
the aggregate, we remain subject to the following risks:

 

•                  Continuing
strong demand for developers’ resources, combined with the recognition they
receive in connection with their work, may cause developers who worked for us
in the past either to work for our competitors in the future or to renegotiate
our agreements with them on terms less favorable for us;

 

•                  Limited
financial resources and business expertise and inability to retain skilled
personnel may force developers out of business prior to completing our products
or require us to fund additional costs; and

 

•                  Our competitors
may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to exclusive
development arrangements. In either case, we would not be able to continue to
engage such developers’ services for our products, except for those that they
are contractually obligated to complete for us.

 

Increased
competition for skilled third-party software developers also has compelled us
to agree to make significant advance payments on royalties to game developers. If
the products subject to these arrangements do not generate sufficient revenues
to recover these royalty advances, we would have to write-off unrecovered
portions of these payments, which could cause material harm to our business and
financial results. Typically, we pay developers a royalty based on a percentage
of net revenues, less agreed upon deductions, but from time to time, we have
agreed to pay developers fixed per unit product royalties after royalty
advances are fully recouped. To the extent that sales prices of products on
which we have agreed to pay a fixed per unit royalty are marked down, our
profitability could be adversely affected.

 

If our products contain defects, our business
could be harmed significantly.

 

Software
products and peripherals as complex as the ones we publish may contain
undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite
extensive testing prior to release, we cannot be certain that errors will not
be found in new products or releases after shipment, that could result in loss
of or delay in market acceptance. This loss or delay could significantly harm
our business, financial results, and reputation.

 

We may permit our customers to return our
products and to receive pricing concessions which could reduce our net revenues
and results of operations.

 

We are exposed
to the risk of product returns and price protection with respect to our
distributors and retailers. Return policies allow distributors and retailers to
return defective, shelf-worn, and damaged products in accordance with terms
granted. Price protection, when granted and applicable, allows customers a
credit against amounts they owe us with respect to merchandise unsold by them. We
may permit product returns from, or grant price protection to, our customers
under certain conditions. The conditions our customers must meet to be granted
the right to return products or price protection are, among other things,
compliance with applicable payment terms, delivery to us of weekly inventory
and sell-through reports, and consistent participation in the launches of our
premium title releases. We may also consider other factors, including the
facilitation of slow-moving inventory and other market factors. When we offer
price protection, we offer it with respect to a particular product to all of
our retail customers; however, only those customers who meet the conditions
detailed above can avail themselves of such price protection. We also offer a
90-day limited warranty to our end users that our products will be free from
manufacturing defects. Although we maintain a reserve for returns and price
protection, and although we may place limits on product returns and price
protection, we could be forced to accept substantial product returns and
provide substantial price protection to maintain our relationships with
retailers and our access to distribution channels. Product returns and price
protection that exceed our reserves could significantly harm our business and
financial results.

 

Sales of certain titles such as Guitar HeroTM
are affected by hardware peripheral availability.

 

Some of our
titles involve a separate hardware peripheral, such as the guitar in Guitar
HeroTM . Typically, we sell such
software both in bundles with the hardware peripheral and on a stand-alone
basis. Consumer may not want to buy such game software if they cannot also buy
the hardware peripheral. If we underestimate demand or otherwise are unable to
produce sufficient quantities of the hardware peripheral or allocate too few
peripherals to geographic markets and hardware platforms where demand exceeds
supply, we will forego revenue. This may also create greater opportunities for
competitors to develop or gain market share with competitive product offerings.
If we overestimate demand and make too many peripherals, or allocate too many
peripherals to geographic markets and

 

14












 

hardware
platforms where there is insufficient demand, we will incur unrecoverable
manufacturing costs for unsold units as well as for unsold game software. In
either case, hardware peripheral manufacturing and allocation decisions may
negatively affect our financial performance.

 

There are a
limited number of manufacturers who are authorized by Sony, Nintendo or
Microsoft to make the hardware peripherals for Guitar HeroTM,  and the majority of those manufacturers are
located in China. Anything that adversely impacts the ability of those
manufacturers to produce the hardware peripheral for us, including without
limitation the revocation of the first party license to produce the hardware,
the utilization of such manufacturer’s capacity by one or our competitors, or
issues generally negatively impacting international companies operating in
China, will adversely impact our ability to supply those peripherals to the
market.

 

We may face difficulty obtaining access to
retail shelf space necessary to market and sell our products effectively.

 

Retailers of
our products typically have a limited amount of shelf space and promotional
resources, and there is intense competition among consumer interactive
entertainment software products for high quality retail shelf space and
promotional support from retailers. To the extent that the number of products
and platforms increases, competition for shelf space may intensify and may
require us to increase our marketing expenditures. Retailers with limited shelf
space typically devote the most and highest quality shelf space to those
products expected to be best sellers. We cannot be certain that our new
products will consistently achieve such “best seller” status. Due to increased
competition for limited shelf space, retailers and distributors are in an
increasingly better position to negotiate favorable terms of sale, including
price discounts, price protection, marketing and display fees, and product
return policies. Our products constitute a relatively small percentage of any
retailer’s sales volume. We cannot be certain that retailers will continue to
purchase our products or to provide our products with adequate levels of shelf
space and promotional support on acceptable terms. A prolonged failure in this
regard may significantly harm our business and financial results.

 

Our sales may decline substantially without
warning and in a brief period of time because a majority of our sales are made
to a relatively small number of key customers and because we do not have
long-term contracts for the sale of our products.

 

In the United
States and Canada, we primarily sell our products on a direct basis to
mass-market retailers, consumer electronics stores, discount warehouses, and
game specialty stores. Our products are sold internationally on a
direct-to-retail basis, through third-party distribution and licensing
arrangements and through our wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries. Our
sales are made primarily on a purchase order basis without long-term agreements
or other forms of commitments. Our largest customers, Wal-Mart and GameStop,
accounted for approximately 22% and 8%, respectively, of our consolidated net
revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 and approximately 22% and 10%
of our consolidated net revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. The
loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any of our principal retail
customers or distributors could significantly harm our business and financial
results. The concentration of sales in a small number of large customers also
could make us more vulnerable to collection risk if one or more of these large
customers became unable to pay for our products. In addition, having such a
large portion of our total net revenue concentrated in a few customers reduces
our negotiating leverage with these customers.

 

We may be burdened with payment defaults and
uncollectible accounts if our distributors or retailers cannot honor their
credit arrangement with us.

 

Distributors
and retailers in the interactive entertainment software industry have from time
to time experienced significant fluctuations in their businesses and a number
of them have failed. The insolvency or business failure of any significant
retailer or distributor of our products could materially harm our business and
financial results. We typically make sales to most of our retailers and some
distributors on unsecured credit, with terms that vary depending upon the
customer’s credit history, solvency, credit limits, and sales history, as well
as whether we can obtain sufficient credit insurance. Although, as in the case
with most of our customers, we have insolvency risk insurance to protect
against our customers’ bankruptcy, insolvency, or liquidation, this insurance
contains a significant deductible and a co-payment obligation, and the policy
does not cover all instances of non-payment. In addition, although we maintain
a reserve for uncollectible receivables, the reserve may not be sufficient in
every circumstance. As a result, a payment default by a significant customer
could significantly harm our business and financial results.

 

15












 

We may not be able to maintain our
distribution relationships with key vendors and customers.

 

Our CD
Contact, NBG, and Centresoft subsidiaries distribute interactive entertainment
software and hardware products and provide related services in the Benelux
countries, Germany, and the United Kingdom, respectively, and via export in
other European countries for a variety of entertainment software publishers,
many of which are our competitors, and hardware manufacturers. From time to
time, they also maintain exclusive relationships to serve certain retail
customers. These services are generally performed subject to limited-term arrangements.
Although we expect to use reasonable efforts to retain these vendors and retail
customer relationships, we may not be successful in this regard. The
cancellation or non-renewal of one or more of these arrangements could
significantly harm our business and financial results.

 

Our business is subject to risks generally
associated with the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly
harm our operating results.

 

Our business
is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment
industry, including: the popularity, price and timing of our games and the
platforms on which they are played; economic conditions that adversely affect
discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the
availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical
reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot
necessarily be predicted. Many of these risks are beyond our control. These
risks could negatively impact our business and financial results.

 

We are exposed to seasonality in the sale of
our products.

 

The
interactive entertainment software industry is highly seasonal, with the
highest levels of consumer demand occurring during the calendar year end
holiday buying season. As a result, our net revenues, gross profits, and
operating income have historically been highest during the second half of the
calendar year. Our receivables and credit risk are likewise higher during the
second half of the calendar year as our customers stock up on our products for
the holiday season. Additionally, in a platform transition period, sales of
game console software products can be significantly affected by the timeliness
of introduction of game console platforms by the manufacturers of those
platforms, such as Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. The timing of hardware
platform introduction is also often tied to holidays and is not within our
control. If a hardware platform is released unexpectedly close to the holidays,
this would result in a shortened holiday buying season and could negatively
impact the sales of our products. Further, delays in development, licensor
approvals, or manufacturing can also affect the timing of the release of our
products, causing us to miss key selling periods such as the calendar year end
holiday buying season.

 

We may not be able to adequately adjust our
cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand.

 

A significant
portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is comprised of
personnel and facilities. In the event of a significant decline in revenues, we
may not be able to exit facilities, reduce personnel, or make other changes to
our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant
termination and exit costs. Management may not be able to implement such
actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in
revenues and profit.

 

If we do not continue to attract and retain
key personnel, we will be unable to effectively conduct our business.

 

Our success
depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify, hire, and retain
skilled personnel. The software industry is characterized by a high level of
employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors for personnel
with technical, marketing, sales, product development, and management skills. We
may not be able to attract and retain skilled personnel or may incur
significant costs in order to do so. If we are unable to attract additional
qualified employees or retain the services of key personnel, our business and
financial results could be negatively impacted.

 

Our products are subject to the threat of
piracy and unauthorized copying, and inadequate intellectual property laws and
other protections could prevent us from enforcing or defending our proprietary
technology.

 

We regard our
software as proprietary and rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark
and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and
other methods to protect our proprietary rights. We own or license various
copyrights, patents, and trademarks. We are aware that some unauthorized
copying occurs within the interactive entertainment software industry, and if a
significantly greater amount of unauthorized copying of our software products
were to occur, it could cause material harm to our business and financial
results.

 

16












 

Policing
unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and software piracy is a
persistent problem, especially in some countries. Further, the laws of some
countries where our products are or may be distributed either do not protect
our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of
the United States, or are poorly enforced. Legal protection of our rights may
be ineffective in such countries. In addition, though we take steps to make the
unauthorized copying and distribution of our products more difficult, as do the
manufacturers of consoles on which our games are played, neither our efforts
nor those of the console manufacturers may be successful in controlling the
piracy of our products. Organized pirate operations have been expanding
globally. In addition, the proliferation of technology designed to circumvent
the protection measures we use in our products, the availability of broadband
access to the Internet, the ability to download pirated copies of our games
from various Internet sites and peer-to-peer networks, and the widespread
proliferation of Internet cafes using pirated copies of our products, all have
contributed to an expansion in piracy. This could have a negative effect on our
growth and profitability in the future.

 

Moreover, as
we leverage our software products using emerging technologies such as the
Internet and online services, our ability to protect our intellectual property
rights and to avoid infringing intellectual property rights of others may
diminish. We cannot be certain that existing intellectual property laws will
provide adequate protection for our products in connection with these emerging
technologies.

 

Data breaches involving the source code for
our products or customer or employee data stored by us could adversely affect
our reputation and revenue.

 

We store the source code for
our interactive entertainment software products as it is created on multiple
electronic devices. In addition, we store customer account information for, and
other confidential information related to, our employees. A breach of the systems
on which such source code, account information and other sensitive data is
stored could lead to piracy of our software or fraudulent activity and claims
and lawsuits against us in connection with data security breaches. If we are
subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or be forced to
pay damages or other amounts, which could materially and adversely affect our
profitability. In addition, any damage to our reputation resulting from a data
breach could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and future growth
prospects, or increase our costs by leading to additional security measures
being required.

 

We may be subject to intellectual property
claims.

 

As the number
of interactive entertainment software products increases and the features and
content of these products continue to overlap, software developers increasingly
may become subject to infringement claims. Many of our products are highly
realistic and feature materials that are based on real world examples, which
may be the subject of intellectual property infringement claims of others. In
addition, our products often utilize complex, cutting edge technology that may
become subject to emerging intellectual property rights of others. Although we
believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our products do not
violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is possible that third
parties still may claim infringement. From time to time, we receive
communications from third parties regarding such claims. Existing or future
infringement claims against us, whether valid or not, may be time consuming and
expensive to defend.

 

•                  Intellectual
property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the
following:

 

•                              Cease
selling, incorporating, or using products or services that incorporate the
challenged intellectual property;

 

•                              Obtain
a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property, which if
available at all, may not be available on commercially favorable terms; or

 

•                              Redesign
the affected interactive entertainment software products or hardware peripherals,
which could cause us to incur additional costs, delay introduction and possibly
reduce commercial appeal of our products.

 

Any of these
actions may cause material harm to our business and financial results.

 

We are subject to the rating of our content
by the Entertainment Software Rating Board and similar agencies. Failure to
obtain our target ratings for our products could negatively impact our sales.

 

The
Entertainment Software Rating Board (the “ESRB”) requires game publishers to
provide consumers with ratings information, including information relating to
violence, nudity, or sexual content contained in software titles,

 

17












 

and imposes
significant penalties for noncompliance. Certain countries have also
established similar rating systems as prerequisites for product sales in those
countries. In some instances, we may be required to modify our products to
comply with the requirements of rating systems, which could delay or disrupt
the release of our products, or we may be prevented from selling them
altogether in certain territories. Our software titles receive a rating from
the ESRB of “Everyone” (age 6 and older), “Everyone 10+” (age 10 and older), “Teen”
(age 13 and over), or “Mature” (age 17 and over). Many of our titles have
received an “Mature” rating. None of our titles have received the “Adults Only”
rating (18 and over). We believe that we comply with rating systems and properly
display the ratings and content descriptions received for our titles. If we are
unable to obtain the ratings we have targeted for our products as a result of
changes in the ESRB’s ratings standards or for other reasons, including the
adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be
negatively affected.

 

Our business, products, and distribution are
subject to increasing regulation of content in key territories. If we do not
successfully respond to these regulations, our business may suffer.

 

Legislation is
continually being introduced that may affect both the content of our products
and their distribution. For example, privacy laws in the United States and
Europe impose various restrictions on our collection and storage of personal information.
Those rules vary by territory although the Internet recognizes no geographical
boundaries. In addition, many foreign countries have laws that permit
governmental entities to censor the content and/or advertising of interactive
entertainment software. Other countries, such as Germany, prohibit certain
types of content.

 

In the United
States, numerous laws have been introduced at the federal and state level which
attempt to restrict the content of products such as ours or the distribution of
such products. For example, recent legislation has been adopted in several
states, and proposed at the federal level, that prohibits the sale of certain
games (e.g., violent games or those with “M
(Mature)” or “AO (Adults Only)” ratings) to minors. In addition, a number of
state legislative bodies in states such as Illinois, California, Michigan, and
Washington have introduced various forms of legislation designed to regulate
and control sales of video games deemed inappropriate for sales to minors. New
and recent incidents may lead to increased pressure for legislative activity. To
date, all the courts have ruled on such legislation in a manner favorable to
the interactive entertainment software industry. But in the event such
legislation is adopted and enforced, the sales of our products may be harmed
because the products we are able to offer to our customers and the size of the
potential market for our products may be limited. We may also be required to
modify our products or alter our marketing strategies to comply with new and
possibly inconsistent regulations, which could be costly or delay the release
of our products.

 

If one or more of our titles were found to
contain objectionable undisclosed, pertinent content, our business could
suffer.

 

Throughout the
history of our industry, many video games have been designed to include certain
hidden content and gameplay features that are accessible through the use of
in-game cheat codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance
the gameplay experience. However, in some cases, undisclosed, pertinent content
or features have been found in other publishers’ interactive entertainment
software products. In a few cases, the ESRB has reacted to discoveries of
undisclosed, pertinent content and features by changing the rating that was
originally assigned to the product, requiring the publisher to change the game
and/or game packaging and/or fining the publisher. Retailers have on occasion
reacted to the discovery of such undisclosed content by removing these games
from their shelves, refusing to sell them, and demanding that their publishers
accept them as product returns. Likewise, interactive entertainment software
consumers have reacted to the revelation of undisclosed content by refusing to
purchase such games, demanding refunds for games they have already purchased,
refraining from buying other games published by the company whose game
contained the objectionable material, and, in at least one occasion, filing a
lawsuit against the publisher of the product containing such content.

 

We have
implemented preventative measures designed to reduce the possibility of
objectionable undisclosed, pertinent content from appearing in the video games
we publish. Nonetheless, these preventative measures are subject to human
error, circumvention, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints. If a
video game we published were found to contain undisclosed, pertinent content,
the ESRB could demand that we recall a game and change its packaging to reflect
a revised rating, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand we accept the
return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and/or consumers could
refuse to buy it, demand that we refund their money or file a lawsuit against
us. This could have a material negative impact on our operating results and
financial condition. In addition, our reputation could be harmed, which could
impact sales of other video games we sell. If any of these consequences were to
occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed.

 

18












 

Our products may be subject to legal claims.

 

In prior
fiscal years, at least two lawsuits have been filed against numerous video game
companies, including us, by the families of victims who were shot and killed by
teenage gunmen in attacks perpetrated at schools. These lawsuits alleged that
the video game companies manufactured and/or supplied these teenagers with
violent video games, teaching them how to use a gun and causing them to act out
in a violent manner. These lawsuits have been dismissed. Similar additional
lawsuits may be filed in the future. Although our general liability insurance
carrier agreed to defend us in such lawsuits in the past, it is uncertain
whether the insurance carrier would do so in the future, or if it would cover
all or any amounts which we might be liable for if such future lawsuits are not
decided in our favor. If such future lawsuits are filed and ultimately decided
against us and our insurance carrier does not cover the amounts we are liable
for, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial
results. Payment of significant claims by insurance carriers may make such
insurance coverage materially more expensive or unavailable in the future,
thereby exposing our business to additional risk.

 

Other Risks Relating to Our Business and Ownership of Our Stock

 

We seek to manage our business with a view to
achieving long-term results, and this could have a negative effect on
short-term trading.

 

We focus on
creation of shareholder value over time, and we intend to make decisions that
will be consistent with this long-term view. As a result, some of our
decisions, such as whether to make or discontinue operating investments, manage
our balance sheet and capital structure, or pursue or discontinue strategic
initiatives, may be in conflict with the objectives of short-term traders. Further,
this could adversely affect our quarterly or other short-term results of
operations.

 

We may face limitations on our ability to
find suitable acquisition opportunities or to integrate additional acquired
businesses.

 

We intend to
pursue additional acquisitions of companies, properties, and other assets that
can be purchased or licensed on acceptable terms and which we believe can be
operated or exploited profitably. Some of these transactions could be material
in size and scope. Although we continue to search for additional acquisition
opportunities, we may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisitions. As
the interactive entertainment software industry continues to consolidate, we
face significant competition in seeking and consummating acquisition
opportunities. We may not be able to consummate potential acquisitions or an
acquisition may not enhance our business or may decrease rather than increase
our earnings. In the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock
in connection with one or more acquisitions, which may dilute our existing
shareholders. Future acquisitions could also divert substantial management time
and result in short-term reductions in earnings or special transaction or other
charges. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully
integrate the businesses that we may acquire into our existing business. Our
shareholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on, or evaluate
future acquisitions.

 

From time to
time, we may make a capital investment and hold a minority interest in a
third-party developer in connection with interactive entertainment software
products to be developed by such developer for us, which we believe helps to
create a closer relationship between us and the developer. We account for those
capital investments over which we have the ability to exercise significant
influence using the equity method. For those investments over which we do not
have the ability to exercise significant influence, we account for our
investment using the cost method. There can be no assurance that we will
realize long-term benefits from such investments or that we will continue to
carry such investments at their current value.

 

Our shareholder rights plan, charter
documents, and other agreements may make it more difficult to acquire us
without the approval of our Board of Directors.

 

We have
adopted a shareholder rights plan under which one right entitling the holder to
purchase one six-hundredths (1/600) of a share, as adjusted on account of stock
dividends made since the plan’s adoption, of our Series A Junior Preferred
Stock price at an exercise price of $6.67 per share, subject to adjustment and
as adjusted on account of stock dividends made since the plan’s adoption, is
attached to each outstanding share of common stock. Such shareholder rights
plan makes an acquisition of control in a transaction not approved by our Board
of Directors more difficult. Our Amended and Restated By-laws have advance
notice provisions for nominations for election of nominees to the Board of
Directors which may make it more difficult to acquire control of us. Our
long-term

 

19












 

incentive
plans provide, in the discretion of a committee, for acceleration of stock
options following a change in control under certain circumstances, which has
the effect of making an acquisition of control more expensive. In addition,
some of our officers have severance compensation agreements that provide for
substantial cash payments and accelerations of other benefits in the event of a
change in control. These agreements and arrangements may also inhibit a change
in control.

 

Limitations on our capacity or ability to
issue stock and options may require us to use more cash in our employee
compensation packages.

 

Our amended
and restated certificate of incorporation and our option plans limit the number
of shares of our stock and the number of stock options that we can issue. To
increase these limits, we must seek and obtain approval of our stockholders. If
our stockholders do not approve increases in our available stock and option “pool”,
our ability to offer stock and stock options to new and existing employees will
be limited. This may in turn impair our ability to recruit and retain employees.
It may also require us to place greater reliance on cash compensation, which
may not be as attractive to existing and prospective employees. Increased use
of cash for employee compensation will also reduce the amount of cash available
to us for other uses. Each of these consequences could have negative effects on
our business and financial results.

 

Our stock price is highly volatile.

 

The trading
price of our common stock has been and could continue to be subject to wide
fluctuations in response to many factors, including:

 

•                  Quarter to
quarter variations in results of operations;

 

•                  Our
announcements of new products;

 

•                  Our competitors’
announcements of new products;

 

•                  Our product
development or release schedule;

 

•                  General
conditions in the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics
industries, and in the economy;

 

•                  Timing of the
introduction of new platforms and delays in the actual release of new
platforms;

 

•                  Hardware
manufacturers’ announcements of price reductions in hardware platforms;

 

•                  Consumer
spending trends;

 

•                  Changes in
earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; and

 

•                  Investor
perceptions and expectations regarding our products, plans and strategic
position, and those of our competitors and customers.

 

In addition,
the public stock markets experience extreme price and trading volume
volatility, particularly in high technology sectors of the market. This
volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many
technology companies for reasons often unrelated to the operating performance
of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect
the market price of our common stock.

 

In our fiscal year 2007, we began recognizing
stock-based compensation expense in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” related to our employee
equity compensation and employee stock purchase programs. The recognition of
this expense has a significant impact in lowering our reported net income (or
increase our reported net loss).

 

Beginning in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, we adopted Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment”
(“SFAS 123R”), which requires us to recognize compensation expense for all
stock-based awards based on estimated fair values. As a result, beginning with
our first quarter

 

20











 

of fiscal 2007, our operating results contain a charge for stock-based
compensation related to the equity-based awards we provide to our employees, as
well as stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plans. This expense
is in addition to the stock-based compensation expense we have recognized in
prior periods related to restricted stock unit grants, acquisitions and other
grants. The stock-based compensation charges we incur depend on the number of
equity-based awards we grant and the number of shares of common stock we sell
under our employee stock purchase plans, as well as a number of estimates and
variables such as estimated forfeiture rates, the trading price and volatility
of our common stock, the expected term of our options, and interest rates. As a
result, our stock-based compensation charges can vary significantly from period
to period. Going forward, our adoption of SFAS 123R will continue to
significantly lower our reported net income (or increase our reported net
loss), which could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common
stock.

 

Changes in our tax rates or exposure to
additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our operating results and
financial condition.

 

We are subject
to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant
judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes
and, in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and
calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also
required to estimate what our taxes will be in the future. Although we believe
our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimate process is inherently uncertain,
and our estimates are not binding on tax authorities. Our effective tax rate could
be adversely affected by changes in our business, including the mix of earnings
in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the elections we
make, changes in applicable tax laws as well as other factors. Further, our tax
determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and
developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Should
our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax provision and
net income could be materially affected.

 

We are also
required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use,
value-added, net worth, property, and goods and services taxes, in both the
United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under
examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. There
can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our
business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on
our operating results and financial condition.

 

Our international revenues may be affected by
regulatory requirements and barriers, cultural differences and currency
fluctuations.

 

Our
international revenues have accounted for a significant portion of our total
revenues. International sales and licensing accounted for 50%, 52% and 50%,
respectively, of our consolidated net revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. We expect that international revenues will continue to account
for a significant portion of our total revenues in the future. International
sales may be subject to unexpected regulatory requirements, tariffs, and other
barriers. Additionally, foreign sales that are made in local currencies may
fluctuate. We have and may continue to engage in limited currency hedging
activities. While these hedging activities mitigate some foreign currency risk,
our reported results of operations and financial condition would be adversely
affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations, particularly the Euro,
British pound sterling, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar. Currency
exchange rate fluctuations had a positive impact on revenues from internal
sales and licensing in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. In the future,
currency exchange rates may have a negative or materially adverse impact on
revenues from international sales and licensing and thus on our business and
financial results. In addition, cultural differences may affect consumer
preferences and limit the popularity of titles that are “hits” in the United
States. If we do not correctly assess consumer preferences in the countries in
our market, our sales and revenue may be lower than expected.

 

Risk
Factors Relating to Results of the Special Subcommittee Review of our Stock
Option Granting Practices

 

SEC investigation and litigation relating to
stock options remain pending and may adversely affect our business and results
of operations.

 

Although the special subcommittee of
independent members of our Board of Directors established in July 2006 to
review our historical stock option granting practices (the “Special
Subcommittee”) has completed its review of those practices and our stock option
grants made in the period between 1992 and 2006, a formal investigation by

 

21












 

the SEC relating to our stock option granting
practices remains pending, as does derivative litigation against us and certain
of our current and former directors and officers. Although we believe that we
have taken appropriate action by restating our financial statements for the
fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, as filed in our Amended Annual Report on Form
10-K/A on May 25, 2007, and made appropriate disclosures for matters relating
to stock options, the SEC (or the court in the derivative actions) may disagree
with the findings of the Special Subcommittee or with the manner in which we
have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past
option grant measurement date errors. If so, we may need to further restate our
prior financial statements, further amend our filings with the SEC, or take
other actions not currently contemplated. In addition, these proceedings are
likely to result in additional legal expense that may affect our results in
future periods, and may also result in diversion of management attention and
other resources, as well as fines, penalties, damages and other sanctions. These
eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business and results of
operations. We cannot currently predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings.

 

We had a material weakness in internal
control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material
weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over
financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective,
there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a
restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence
in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our
stock price.

 

Section 404 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to
include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also
requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and
report on, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting.
In assessing the findings of the Special Subcommittee’s review and the
restatement set forth in our Amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal
year ended March 31, 2006, our management concluded that there was a material
weakness, as defined in the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s
Auditing Standard No. 2, in our internal control over financial reporting as of
March 31, 2006. Our management concluded that this weakness was remedied as of
March 31, 2007 with the adoption of new equity compensation policies and
procedures by the Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance
Committees of our Board of Directors and, accordingly, no longer exists as of
the date of this filing. See the discussion included in Part II, Item 9A of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 for
additional information regarding our internal control over financial reporting.

 

Our management does not expect that our
internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error or all fraud.
A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only
reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will
be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there
are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered
relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of
some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of
the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in
conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or
procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective
control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be
detected.

 

As a result, we cannot assure you that
significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over
financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to
maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we
encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or
material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting
obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any
such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management
evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The
existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial
statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us
to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose
confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our
stock price.

 

As a result of the delayed filing of certain
of our periodic reports, we will be ineligible to use Form S-3 or Form S-4 for
a period of time. This may adversely affect our ability to engage in certain
types of corporate acquisition and capital-raising transactions.

 

As a result of our delayed filing of certain
of our periodic reports, we will be ineligible to register our securities on
Form S-3 or Form S-4 for sale by us or resale by other security holders until
we have timely filed all periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 for a period of time. In the meantime, we have the ability

 

22












 

to use Form S-1 to raise capital or complete
acquisitions. The need to use Form S-1, and the inability to use Form S-3 or
Form S-4, could increase our transaction costs and adversely affect our ability
to engage in certain types of corporate acquisition and capital-raising
transactions until we regain our S-3/S-4 eligibility.

 

Item 1B