Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form
10-K highlights some of the more important risks identified by management, but
should not be assumed to be the only factors that could affect future
performance. You are cautioned that we do not have a policy of updating or
revising forward-looking statements, and thus you should not assume that
silence by the Company over time means that actual events are bearing out as
estimated in such forward-looking statements.

 

(e)                                  Narrative
Description of Business

 

Our objective is to be a worldwide leader in
the development, publishing, and distribution of quality interactive
entertainment software products that deliver a highly satisfying consumer
entertainment experience. Our business strategy, the key components of our
business operations, and the risk factors that could impact our business are
detailed below.

 

Strategy

 

Create, Acquire, and Maintain Strong Brands. We
focus development and publishing activities principally on products that are,
or have the potential to become, franchise properties with sustainable consumer
appeal and brand recognition. It is our experience that these products can then
serve as the basis for sequels, prequels, and related new products that can be
released over an extended period of time. We believe that the publishing and
distribution of products based in large part on franchise properties enhances
predictability of revenues and the probability of high unit volume sales and
operating profits. We have entered into a series of strategic relationships
with the owners of intellectual property pursuant to which we have acquired the
rights to publish products based on franchises such as Marvel Comics’
properties, including Spider-Man and X-Men. We have a multi-year, multi-property, publishing agreement with
DreamWorks LLC that grants us the exclusive rights to publish video games based
on DreamWorks Animation SKG’s theatrical release “Shrek 2,” which was released
in the first quarter of fiscal 2005, “Shark Tale,” which was released in the
second quarter of fiscal 2005, “Madagascar,” which was released in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006, “Over the Hedge,” which was released in the first
quarter of fiscal 2007, and all of their respective forthcoming sequels,
including “Shrek the Third” and “Madagascar 2.”   As part of our agreement with DreamWorks
Animation SKG, we have the exclusive video game rights to potential future
films in the “Shrek” franchise beyond “Shrek the Third,” upcoming movies,
including “Bee Movie” and “Kung Fu Panda,” as well as other films currently in
development, including “Rex Havoc” and “How to Train Your Dragon.”  We have a strategic alliance with
Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. that grants us the exclusive, worldwide
interactive rights to develop and publish “World Series of Poker” video games
based on the popular World Series of Poker Tournament. We also have a strategic
relationship

 

4












 

with professional skateboarder
Tony Hawk through an exclusive multi-year agreement to develop video games
using his name and likeness. Through fiscal 2006, we have released seven
successful titles in the Tony Hawk franchise. We also have created a number of
successful internally developed intellectual properties such as the True Crime
and Call of Duty franchise properties, and GUN.
Recently we have also signed agreements with Hasbro Properties Group to develop
and publish video games based on the “Transformers” brand and with MGM
Interactive and EON Productions Ltd. to develop and publish video games based
on the James Bond license.

 

Execute Disciplined Product Selection and
Development Processes. The success of our publishing
business depends, in significant part, on our ability to develop high quality
games that will generate high unit volume sales. Our publishing units have
implemented a formal control process for the selection, development,
production, and quality assurance of our products. We apply this process, which
we refer to as the “Greenlight Process,” to all of our products, whether
externally or internally developed. The Greenlight Process includes in-depth
reviews of each project at four important stages of development by a team that
includes many of our highest-ranking operating managers and coordination
between our sales and marketing personnel and development staff at each step in
the process.

 

We develop our products using a combination
of our internal development resources and external development resources acting
under contract with us. We typically select our external developers based on
their track record and expertise in producing products in the same category. One
developer will often produce the same game for multiple platforms and will
produce sequels to the original game. We believe that selecting and using
development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the particular
expertise of our internal and external development resources, which we believe
adds to the quality of our products.

 

Create and Maintain Diversity in Product Mix,
Platforms, and Markets. We believe that maintaining a
diversified mix of products can reduce our operating risks and enhance
profitability. Therefore, we develop and publish products spanning a wide range
of product categories, including action/adventure, action sports, racing, role-playing,
simulation, first-person action, and strategy. We also develop products
designed for target audiences ranging from casual players to game enthusiasts,
children to adults, and mass-market consumers to “value” buyers. Presently, we
concentrate on developing, publishing, and distributing products that operate
on PS2, GameCube, Xbox, and the next-generation Xbox360 console systems, GBA,
PSP, and NDS hand-held devices, and the PC. We are developing products for the
PS3 and Wii next-generation console systems which are expected to be released
in calendar 2006. We typically offer our products for use on multiple platforms
in order to reduce the risks associated with any single platform, leverage our
costs over a larger installed hardware base, and increase unit sales.

 

Continue to Improve Profitability. We
continually strive to manage risk and increase our operating leverage and
efficiency with the goal of increased profitability. We believe the key factor
affecting our future profitability will be the success rate of our product
releases. Therefore, our product selection and development process includes, as
a significant component, periodic evaluations of the expected commercial
success of products under development. Through this process, for titles that we
determine to be less promising, corrections are made in the development process
or, if necessary, they are discontinued before we incur additional development
costs. In addition, we believe our focus on cross platform releases and branded
products will contribute to improved profitability.

 

We continue to focus on increasing our
margins. We have, for example, acquired certain experienced and specialized
developers in instances where we can enhance profitability through the
elimination of royalty obligations. Additionally, we often rely on independent
third-party interactive entertainment software developers to develop some of
our software products, thereby taking advantage of specialized independent
developers without incurring the fixed overhead obligations associated with
increased internally employed staff.

 

Our sales and marketing staff work with our
studio resources to increase the visibility of new product launches and to
coordinate the timing and promotion of product releases. Our finance and sales
and marketing personnel work together to improve inventory management and
receivables collections. We have instituted broad, objective-based reward
programs that provide incentives to management and staff throughout the
organization to produce results that meet our financial objectives.

 

Grow Through Continued Strategic Acquisitions
and Alliances. The interactive entertainment industry
has been consolidating, and we believe that success in this industry will be
driven in part by the ability to take advantage of scale. Specifically, smaller
companies are more capital constrained, enjoy less predictability of revenues
and cash flow, lack product diversity and must spread fixed costs over a
smaller revenue base. Several industry leaders are emerging that combine the
entrepreneurial and creative spirit of the industry with professional
management, the

 

5












 

ability to access the capital
markets, and the ability to maintain favorable relationships with developers,
intellectual property owners, and retailers. Through numerous completed
acquisitions since 1997, we believe that we have successfully diversified our
operations, our channels of distribution, our development talent pool, and our
library of titles, and have emerged as one of the industry’s leaders. We intend
to continue to evaluate the expansion of our resources through acquisitions,
strategic relationships, and key license transactions. We intend to continue
expanding our intellectual property library through key license transactions
and strategic relationships with intellectual property owners and to continue
to evaluate opportunities to increase our development capacity through the
acquisition of or investment in selected experienced software development firms.

 

Products

 

Historically, we have been best known for our
action/adventure, strategy, and simulation products. We have been successful in
the superheroes and skateboarding categories with our release of titles based
on the Spider-Man and X-Men properties, as well as the Tony Hawk franchise. We
have also been successful in the first person action categories through the
Call of Duty original intellectual property, which we plan on continuing as a
successful long-term franchise. We have established ourselves as a leader in
the “value” software publishing business with products under our Cabela’s,
Rapala’s, World Series of Poker, and Greg Hasting’s Paintball licenses, as well as with products distributed on
behalf of our “value” affiliate label partners. Products published by us in
this category are generally developed by third parties, often under contract
with us, and are marketed under the Activision Value Publishing name. Value
software is typically less sophisticated and less complex, both in terms of the
development process and consumer gameplay.

 

Hardware Licenses. Our
products currently are being developed or published primarily for PS2,
GameCube,   Xbox, and Xbox360 console
systems; GBA, PSP, and NDS hand-held devices; and PCs. We are also developing
products for the PS3 and Wii next-generation console systems expected to be
released in calendar 2006. In order to maintain general access to the console
systems and hand-held devices marketplace, we have maintained licenses for PS2,
GameCube, Xbox, and Xbox360 console systems and GBA, PSP, and NDS hand-held
devices with the owners of each such platform. Each license allows us to create
multiple products for the applicable platform, subject to certain approval
rights which are reserved by each licensor. Each license also requires that we
pay the licensor a per unit royalty for each unit manufactured. In contrast, we
are not required to obtain any license for the development and production of
products for PCs.

 

Intellectual Property Rights. Many
of our current and planned releases are based on intellectual property and
other character or story rights licensed from third parties, as well as a
combination of characters, worlds, and concepts derived from our extensive
library of titles, and original characters and concepts owned and created by us.
When publishing products based on licensed intellectual property rights, we
generally seek to capitalize on the name recognition, marketing efforts, and
goodwill associated with the underlying property. For intellectual property
owned by Activision, we generally attempt to establish such properties as
sustainable, long-term game franchises.

 

In acquiring intellectual property rights
from third parties, we seek to obtain rights to publish titles across a variety
of platforms, to include the ability to produce multiple titles and to retain
rights over an extended period of time. In past years, we have been able to
enter into a series of long-term or multi-product agreements with owners of
various intellectual properties that are well known throughout the world and to
create products based on these recognizable characters, story lines, or
concepts. These agreements typically provide us with exclusive publishing
rights for a specific period of time and, in some cases, for specified platforms
and, in other cases, with renewal rights upon the satisfaction of certain
conditions. The scope of our licensing activities includes theatrical motion
pictures, television shows, animated films and series, comic books, literary
works, sports personalities and events, and celebrities. We intend to continue
expanding relationships with our existing intellectual property partners and to
enter into agreements with other intellectual property owners for additional
recognizable properties, characters, story lines and concepts. However, we may
not be able to maintain or expand our existing relationships or to seek out and
sustain new long-term relationships of similar caliber in the future.

 

Product
Development and Support

 

We develop and produce titles using a model
in which a core group of creative, production, and technical professionals, in
coordination with our marketing and finance departments, have responsibility
for the entire development and production process including the supervision and
coordination of internal and external resources. This team assembles the
necessary creative elements to complete a title using, where appropriate,
outside programmers, artists, animators, scriptwriters, musicians and
songwriters, sound effects and special effects experts,

 

6












 

and sound and video studios. We
believe that this model allows us to supplement internal expertise with top
quality external resources on an as-needed basis.

 

In addition, we often seek out and engage
independent third-party developers to create products on our behalf. Such
products are sometimes owned by us, and usually we have unlimited rights to
commercially exploit these products. In other circumstances, the third-party
developer may retain ownership of the intellectual property and/or technology
included in the product and reserve certain exploitation rights. We typically
select these independent third-party developers based on their expertise in
developing products in a specific category and use the same developer to
produce the same game for multiple platforms. Each of our third-party
developers is under contract with us for specific or multiple titles. From time
to time, we also acquire the license rights to publish and/or distribute software
products that are or will be independently created by third-party developers. In
such cases, the agreements with such developers provide us with exclusive
publishing and/or distribution rights for a specific period of time, often for
specified platforms and territories. In either case, we often have the ability
to publish and/or distribute sequels, conversions, enhancements, and add-ons to
the product initially being produced by the independent developer and
frequently have the right to engage the services of the original developer with
regard to the development of such products.

 

In consideration for the services that the
independent third-party developer provides, it receives a royalty generally
based on net sales of the product that it has developed. Typically, the
developer also receives an advance, which we recoup from the royalties
otherwise payable to the developer. The advance generally is paid in “milestone”
stages. The payment at each stage is tied to the completion and delivery of a
detailed performance milestone. Working with an independent developer allows us
to reduce our fixed development costs, share development risks with the
third-party developer, take advantage of the third-party developer’s expertise
in connection with certain categories of products or certain platforms, and
gain access to proprietary development technologies.

 

From time to time, we may make a capital
investment and hold a minority interest in a third-party developer in
connection with interactive entertainment software products to be developed by
such developer for us, which we believe helps to create a closer relationship
between us and the developer. We account for those capital investments over
which we have the ability to exercise significant influence using the equity
method. For those investments over which we do not have the ability to exercise
significant influence, we account for our investment using the cost method. There
can be no assurance that we will realize long-term benefits from such
investments or that we will continue to carry such investments at their current
value.

 

“Greenlight
Process”

 

We have adopted and implemented a rigorous
procedure for the selection, development, production, and quality assurance of
our internally and externally produced interactive entertainment software
titles. The process, known internally as the “Greenlight Process,” involves
four phases throughout the development and production phases of a title, each
of which includes a number of specific performance milestones. The four phases
of the “Greenlight Process” are the concept, prototype, first playable, and
alpha. This procedure is designed to enable us to manage and control production
and development budgets and timetables, to identify and address production and
technical issues at the earliest opportunity, and to coordinate marketing and
quality control strategies throughout the production and development phases,
all in an environment that fosters creativity. Checks and balances are intended
to be provided through the structured interaction of the project team with our
creative, technical, marketing, and quality assurance/customer support
personnel, as well as our legal, accounting, and finance departments. In order
to maintain the competitiveness of our products and to take advantage of
increasingly sophisticated technology associated with hardware platforms, our
development process includes a significant amount of time for play-testing new
products, and extensive product quality evaluations.

 

Product Support

 

We provide various forms of product support
to both our internally and externally developed titles. Our quality assurance
personnel are involved throughout the development and production of each title
published by us. We subject all such products to extensive testing before release
to ensure compatibility with all appropriate hardware systems and
configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and other defects found in
the products. To support our products after release, we provide online access
to our customers on a 24-hour basis as well as telephone operator help lines
during regular business hours. The customer support group tracks customer
inquiries and we use this data to help improve the development and production
processes.

 

7












 

Publishing
Activities

 

Marketing

 

Our marketing efforts include online
activities (such as the creation of World Wide Web pages to promote specific
titles), public relations, print and broadcast advertising, coordinated
in-store and industry promotions (including merchandising and point of purchase
displays), participation in cooperative advertising programs, direct response
vehicles, and product sampling through demonstration software distributed
through the Internet or on compact discs. From time to time, we also receive
marketing support from hardware manufacturers and retailers in connection with
their own promotional efforts. In addition, certain of our products contain
software that enables customers to “electronically register” their purchases
with us online.

 

We believe that certain of our franchise
properties have loyal and devoted audiences who purchase our sequels as a
result of dedication to the property and satisfaction from previous product
purchases. We therefore market these sequels both toward the established market
as well as broader audiences. In addition, in marketing titles based on
licensed properties, we believe that we derive benefits from the continued
exploitation of these licensed properties and the marketing and promotional
activities of the property owners.

 

Sales and
Distribution

 

North America. Our
products are available for sale or rental in thousands of retail outlets
domestically. Our North American customers include Best Buy, Blockbuster,
Circuit City, GameStop, Target, Toys “R” Us, and Wal-Mart. Our largest
customers, Wal-Mart and GameStop, accounted for approximately 22% and 10% of consolidated net revenues for the year
ended March 31, 2006. For the year ended March 31, 2005, our largest customer,
Wal-Mart, accounted for 23% of consolidated net revenues.

 

In the United States and Canada, our products
are sold primarily on a direct basis to mass-market retailers, consumer
electronics stores, discount warehouses, and game specialty stores. We believe
that a direct relationship with retail accounts results in more effective
inventory management, merchandising, and communications than would be possible
through indirect relationships. We have implemented electronic data interchange
linkages with many of our retailers to facilitate the placing and shipping of
orders. We sell our products to a limited number of distributors.

 

International. Our
products are sold internationally on a direct-to-retail basis, through
third-party distribution and licensing arrangements, and through our
wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries. We conduct our international
publishing activities through offices in the United Kingdom, Germany, France,
Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, Canada, Sweden, Australia, and Japan. Whenever
practicable, we seek to maximize our worldwide revenues and profits by
releasing high quality foreign language releases concurrently with English
language releases and by continuing to expand the number of direct selling
relationships we maintain with key retailers in major territories.

 

Affiliate Labels. In
addition to our own products, we distribute a select number of interactive
entertainment products that are developed and marketed by other third-party
publishers through our “affiliate label” programs in North America, Europe, and
Australia. The distribution of other publishers’ products allows us to increase
the efficiencies of our sales force and provides us with the ability to better
ensure adequate shelf presence at retail stores for all of the products that we
distribute. Distributing other publishers’ titles mitigates the risk associated
with a particular title or titles published by us failing to achieve
expectations. Services provided by us under our affiliate label program include
order solicitation, in-store marketing, logistics and order fulfillment, sales
channel management, as well as other accounting and general administrative
functions. Our current affiliate label partners include LucasArts, as well as
several affiliate label partners in our “value” business. Each affiliate label
relationship is unique and may pertain only to distribution in certain
geographic territories such as the North America, Europe, or Australia and may
be further limited only to specific titles or titles for specific platforms.

 

See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain
financial information regarding reporting segments and geographic areas
required by Item 1.

 

Distribution

 

We distribute interactive entertainment
hardware and software products in Europe through our European distribution
subsidiaries: Centresoft in the United Kingdom; NBG in Germany; and CD Contact
in the Benelux

 

8












 

countries. These subsidiaries
act as wholesalers in the distribution of products and also provide packaging
and logistical and sales services. They provide services to our publishing
operations and to various third-party publishers, including Sony Computer
Entertainment (“Sony”), Nintendo Co. Ltd. (“Nintendo”), and Microsoft
Corporation (“Microsoft”). Centresoft is Sony’s exclusive distributor of
PlayStation products to the independent channel in the United Kingdom. In the
fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, sales for Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft
accounted for approximately 24%, 3%, and 3%, respectively, of our worldwide
distribution net revenues.

 

We entered into the distribution business to
obtain distribution capacity in Europe for our own products, while supporting
the distribution infrastructure with third-party sales, and to diversify our
operations into the European market. Centresoft and our other distribution
subsidiaries operate in accordance with strict confidentiality procedures in
order to provide independent services to various third-party publishers.

 

Emerging
Technologies

 

We are
actively supporting emerging platforms (wireless devices, digital downloads,
closed and open online networks, and interactive television) by publishing and
licensing key brands for these emerging platforms. We have published and
licensed rights to various brands, such as Ultimate Spider-Man, Tony Hawk’s American Wasteland,
Call of Duty 2, X-Men Legends II: Rise of the Apocalypse (“X-Men Legends II”),
and Fantastic Four for various hand-held
wireless devices, such as Nokia’s N-Gage wireless platform, as well as many
traditional wireless handsets. We also develop and optimize many of our titles
for consoles that support online play, such as PS2, Xbox Live on both the Xbox
and Xbox360, and the up-coming Sony PS3 and Nintendo Wii next-generation
consoles. We believe that more of our brands can be successfully published for
wireless and online platforms, as well as exploited through other emerging
technologies, as they continue to evolve.

 

Manufacturing

 

We prepare a set of master program copies,
documentation, and packaging materials for our products for each hardware
platform on which the product will be released. Except with respect to products
for use on the Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft systems, our disk duplication,
packaging, printing, manufacturing, warehousing, assembly, and shipping are
performed by third-party subcontractors.

 

To maintain protection over their hardware
technologies, Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft generally specify or control the manufacturing
and assembly of finished products. We deliver the master materials to the
licensor or its approved replicator, which then manufactures finished goods and
delivers them to us for distribution under our label. At the time our product
unit orders are filled by the manufacturer, we become responsible for the costs
of manufacturing and the applicable per unit royalty on such units, even if the
units do not ultimately sell.

 

To date, we have not experienced any material
difficulties or delays in the manufacture and assembly of our products or
material returns due to product defects.

 

Competition

 

The interactive entertainment software
industry is intensely competitive and new interactive entertainment software
products and platforms are regularly introduced. Our competitors vary in size
from small companies with limited resources to very large corporations with
significantly greater financial, marketing, and product development resources
than we have. Due to their greater resources, certain of our competitors can
spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more
extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay
higher fees to licensors for desirable motion picture, television, sports and
character properties, and pay more to third-party software developers than we
can. In addition, competitors with larger product lines and popular titles
typically have greater leverage with retailers, distributors, and other
customers who may be willing to promote titles with less consumer appeal in
return for access to such competitor’s most popular titles. We believe that the
main competitive factors in the interactive entertainment software industry
include: product features and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility
of products with popular platforms; access to distribution channels; quality of
products; ease of use; price; marketing support; and quality of customer
service.

 

We compete primarily with other publishers of
personal computer and video game console interactive entertainment software. Significant
third-party software competitors currently include, among others: Atari, Inc.;
Capcom Co. Ltd.; Eidos PLC; Electronic Arts Inc.; Konami Company Ltd.; Midway
Games Inc.; Namco Ltd.; Sega Enterprises, Ltd.; Take-Two Interactive Software,
Inc.; THQ Inc.; Ubi Soft Entertainment; and Vivendi Universal

 

9












 

Publishing. In addition,
integrated video game console hardware and software companies such as Sony,
Nintendo, and Microsoft compete directly with us in the development of software
titles for their respective platforms.

 

Employees

 

As of March 31, 2006, we had 2,149 employees,
including 1,370 in product development, 167 in North American publishing, 156
in international publishing, 150 in operations, corporate finance and
administration, and 306 in European distribution activities.

 

As of March 31, 2006, 292 of our full-time
employees were subject to term employment agreements with us. These agreements
generally commit such employees to employment terms of between one and five
years from the commencement of their respective agreements. Most of the
employees subject to such agreements are executive officers or key members of
the product development, sales, or marketing divisions. These individuals
perform services for us as executives, directors, producers, associate
producers, computer programmers, game designers, sales directors, and marketing
product managers. The execution by us of employment agreements with such
employees, in our experience, reduces our turnover during the development,
production, and distribution phases of our entertainment software products and
allows us to plan more effectively for future development and marketing
activities.

 

None of our employees are subject to a
collective bargaining agreement except for the employees of our German
distribution subsidiary who are allowed by German law to belong to an organized
labor council. To date, we have not experienced any labor-related work
stoppages.

 

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS

 

Our business is subject
to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial
performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our
business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could
differ materially from our expectations, and the market value of our securities
could decline. 

 

We depend on a relatively small
number of brands for a significant portion of our revenues and profits.

 

A significant portion of our revenues is
derived from products based on a relatively small number of popular brands each
year, and these products are responsible for a disproportionate amount of our
profits. In addition, many of these products have substantial production or
acquisition costs and marketing budgets. In fiscal 2006, 30% of our
consolidated net revenues (38% of worldwide publishing net revenues) was
derived from three brands, which accounted for 14%, 8%, and 8% of consolidated
net revenues (18%, 10%, and 10% of worldwide publishing net revenues). In
fiscal 2005, 37% of our consolidated net revenues (48% of worldwide publishing
net revenues) was derived from three brands, which accounted for 16%, 11%, and
10% of consolidated net revenues (21%, 14%, and 13% of worldwide publishing net
revenues). In fiscal 2004, 35% of our consolidated net revenues (49% of
worldwide publishing net revenues) was derived from three brands, which
accounted for 17%, 14%, and 4% of consolidated net revenues (24%, 20%, and 5%
of worldwide publishing net revenues). We expect that a limited number of
popular brands will continue to produce a disproportionately large amount of
our revenues and profits. Due to this dependence on a limited number of brands,
the failure to achieve anticipated results by one or more products based on
these brands may significantly harm our business and financial results.

 

Our future success depends on our
ability to release popular products.

 

The life of any one game product is
relatively short, in many cases less than one year. The life cycle of a title generally
involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after
introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. Because revenues associated
with an initial product launch generally constitute a high percentage of the
total revenues associated with the life of a product, delays in product
releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new
products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and
cause our operating results to be materially different from expectations. It
is therefore important for us to be able to continue to develop many high
quality new products that are popularly received. We focus our development and
publishing activities principally on products that are, or have the potential
to become, franchise brand properties. If we are unable to do this, our
business and financial results may be negatively affected.

 

10












 

If we are unable to maintain or
acquire licenses to intellectual property, we may publish fewer “hit” titles
and our revenue may decline.

 

Many of our products are based on
intellectual property and other character or story rights acquired or licensed
from third parties. These license and distribution agreements are limited in
scope and time, and we may not be able to renew key licenses when they expire
or to include new products in existing licenses. The loss of a significant
number of our intellectual property licenses or of our relationships with
licensors, or inability to obtain additional licenses of significant commercial
value could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop new
products and therefore on our business and financial results. Additionally, the
failure of intellectual property acquired by us to be popularly received could
impact the market acceptance of our products in which the intellectual property
is included. Such lack of market acceptance could result in the write-off of
the unrecovered portion of acquired intellectual property assets, which could
cause material harm to our business and financial results. Furthermore, the
competition for these licenses and distribution agreements is often intense. Competition
for these licenses may also drive up the advances, guarantees, and royalties
that we must pay to the licensor, which could increase our costs.

 

Transitions in console platforms
could have a material impact on the market for interactive entertainment
software.

 

When new console platforms are announced or
introduced into the market, consumers typically reduce their purchases of game
console entertainment software products for current console platforms in
anticipation of new platforms becoming available. During these periods, sales
of our game console entertainment software products may be expected to slow or
even decline until new platforms are introduced and achieve wide consumer
acceptance. This decline may
not be offset by increased sales of products for the new console platforms. In
fiscal 2006, Microsoft released Xbox360 and in calendar 2006, Sony and Nintendo
plan to introduce their respective next-generation hardware platforms, the
Playstation 3 and Wii, respectively. We began selling games for
the Xbox360 concurrently
with its launch
and are developing
titles for the next-generation console systems being developed by Sony and Nintendo. Delays
in the launch, shortages, technical problems, or lack of consumer acceptance of
the next-generation platforms could adversely affect our sales of products for
these platforms. In addition, as console hardware moves through its life cycle,
hardware manufacturers typically enact price reductions and decreasing prices
may put downward pressure on our software prices.

 

We must make significant
expenditures to develop products for new platforms which may not be successful
or released when anticipated.

 

We must make substantial product development
and other investments in a particular platform well in advance of introduction
of the platform and we may be required to realign our product portfolio and
development efforts in response to market changes. Furthermore, development costs for
new console platforms are greater than current console platforms. If increased
costs are not offset by higher revenues and other cost efficiencies, our
operating results will suffer and our financial position will be harmed. If
the platforms for which we develop new software products or modify existing
products are not released on a timely basis or do not attain significant market
penetration, or if we develop products for a delayed or unsuccessful platform
or cancel development of products in response to market changes, we may not be
able to recover in revenues our development costs, which could be significant,
and our business and financial results could be significantly harmed.

 

In addition,
we seek to release many of our products in conjunction with specific events,
such as the release of a related movie. If we miss these key selling periods,
due to product delays or delayed introduction of a new platform for which we
have developed products, our sales will suffer disproportionately.

 

We are exposed to seasonality in
the sale of our products.

 

The interactive entertainment software
industry is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of consumer demand
occurring during the year end holiday buying season. As a result, our net
revenues, gross profits, and operating income have historically been highest
during the second half of the calendar year. Additionally, in a platform
transition period, sales of game console software products can be significantly
affected by the timeliness of introduction of game console platforms by the
manufacturers of those platforms, such as Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. The
timing of hardware platform introduction is also often tied to holidays and is
not within our control. If a hardware platform is released unexpectedly close
to the holidays, this would result in a shortened holiday buying season and
could negatively impact the sales of our products. Further, delays in development,
licensor approvals, or manufacturing can also affect the timing of the release
of our products, causing us to miss key selling periods such as the year end
holiday buying season.

 

11












 

If the average price of
current-generation titles continues to decline or if we are unable to sustain
launch pricing on next-generation titles, our operating results will suffer.

 

We have
experienced a decrease in the average price of our titles for
current-generation platforms. As the interactive entertainment industry
transitions to next-generation video game platforms, we expect there to be
fewer current-generation titles able to command premium price points, and we
expect that even these titles will be subject to price reductions at an earlier
point in their sales cycle than we have seen in prior years. We expect the
average price of current-generation titles to continue to decline, which may
have a negative effect on our margins and operating results.

 

With the
launch of the Xbox360 we have priced our next-generation titles at a premium
retail price of $59.99. We also plan to offer our next-generation titles for
the PS3 at the same premium pricing. We expect to continue to price
next-generation titles at premium pricing, but if we are unable to sustain
launch pricing on these next-generation titles we may experience a negative
effect on our margins and operating results.

 

If we do not continue to attract and
retain key personnel, we will be unable to effectively conduct our business. 

 

Our success depends to a significant extent
on our ability to identify, hire, and retain skilled personnel. The software
industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive
recruiting among competitors for personnel with technical, marketing, sales,
product development, and management skills. We may not be able to attract and
retain skilled personnel or may incur significant costs in order to do so. If
we are unable to attract additional qualified employees or retain the services
of key personnel, our business and financial results could be negatively
impacted.

 

Our
platform licensors are our chief competitors and frequently control the
manufacturing of and have broad approval rights over our video game products.

 

Generally, when we develop interactive
entertainment software products for hardware platforms offered by Sony,
Nintendo, or Microsoft, the products are manufactured exclusively by that
hardware manufacturer or their approved replicator.

 

Our agreements with these manufacturers
include certain provisions, such as approval rights over all products and
related promotional materials and the ability to change the fee they charge for
the manufacturing of products, that allow them substantial influence over our costs
and the release schedule of our products. In addition, since each of the
manufacturers is also a publisher of games for its own hardware platforms and
manufactures products for all of its other licensees, a manufacturer may give
priority to its own products or those of our competitors in the event of
insufficient manufacturing capacity. Accordingly, Sony, Nintendo, or Microsoft
could cause unanticipated delays in the release of our products as well as
increases to our development, manufacturing, marketing, or distribution costs,
which could materially harm our business and financial results.

 

In addition, as online capabilities for video
game platforms emerge, our platform licensors will control our ability to
provide online game capabilities for our console platform products and will in
large part establish the financial terms on which these services are offered to
consumers. Currently, Microsoft provides online capabilities for the Xbox and
Xbox360 and Sony provides online capabilities for PS2 products. We expect Sony will also provide
online capabilities for PS3 products. In each case,
compatibility code and the consent of the licensor are required for us to
include online capabilities in our products. In addition, the business model
for Microsoft’s and Sony’s online businesses for their video game products may
compete with our online business. As these capabilities become more
significant, the failure or refusal of our licensors to approve our products,
or the successful deployment by these licensors of services competitive to
ours, may harm our business.

 

Our
platform licensors set the royalty rates and other fees that we must pay to
publish games for their platforms, and therefore have significant influence on
our costs.

 

We pay a licensing fee to the hardware
manufacturer for each copy of a product manufactured for that manufacturer’s
game platform. Starting in fiscal 2005 and continuing into fiscal 2007, our
platform licensors have begun to introduce new hardware platforms into the
market. In order to publish products for new hardware platforms, we must take a
license from the platform licensor which gives the platform licensor the
opportunity to set the fee structure that we must pay in order to publish games
for that platform. Similarly, the platform licensors have retained the
flexibility to change their fee structures for online gameplay and features for
their consoles and the manufacturing of products. The control that platform
licensors have over the fee structures for their future platforms and online

 

12












 

access makes it difficult for
us to predict our costs and profitability in the medium to long term. It is
also possible that platform licensors will not renew our licenses. Because
publishing products for console systems is the largest portion of our business,
any increase in fee structures or nonrenewal of licenses would have a
significant negative impact on our business model and profitability.

 

If our products contain defects,
our business could be harmed significantly.

 

Software products as complex as the ones we
publish may contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new
versions are released. Despite extensive testing prior to release, we cannot be
certain that errors will not be found in new products or releases after
shipment, that could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance. This loss
or delay could significantly harm our business, financial results, and
reputation.

 

We may permit our customers to return our
products and to receive pricing concessions which could reduce our net revenues
and results of operations.

 

We are exposed to the risk of
product returns and price protection with respect to our distributors and
retailers. Return policies allow distributors and retailers to return
defective, shelf-worn, and damaged products in accordance with terms granted. Price
protection, when granted and applicable, allows customers a credit against
amounts they owe us with respect to merchandise unsold by them. We may permit
product returns from, or grant price protection to, our customers under certain
conditions. The conditions our customers must meet to be granted the right to
return products or price protection are, among other things, compliance with
applicable payment terms, delivery to us of weekly inventory and sell-through
reports, and consistent participation in the launches of our premium title
releases. We may also consider other factors, including the facilitation of
slow-moving inventory and other market factors. When we offer price protection,
we offer it with respect to a particular product to all of our retail
customers; however, only those customers who meet the conditions detailed above
can avail themselves of such price protection. We also offer a 90-day limited
warranty to our end users that our products will be free from manufacturing
defects. Although we maintain a reserve for returns and price protection, and
although we may place limits on product returns and price protection, we could
be forced to accept substantial product returns and provide substantial price
protection to maintain our relationships with retailers and our access to
distribution channels. Product returns and price protection that exceed our
reserves could significantly harm our business and financial results.

 

Inadequate intellectual property
protections could prevent us from enforcing or defending our proprietary
technology.

 

We regard our software as proprietary and
rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee
and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and other methods to protect our
proprietary rights. We own or license various copyrights and trademarks. We are
aware that some unauthorized copying occurs within the computer software
industry, and if a significantly greater amount of unauthorized copying of our
interactive entertainment software products were to occur, it could cause
material harm to our business and financial results.

 

Policing unauthorized use of our products is
difficult, and software piracy is a persistent problem, especially in some
international markets. Further, the laws of some countries where our products
are or may be distributed either do not protect our products and intellectual
property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or are
poorly enforced. Legal protection of our rights may be ineffective in such
countries. In addition, though
we take steps to make the unauthorized copying and distribution of our products
more difficult, as do the manufacturers of consoles on which our games are
played, neither our efforts nor those of the console manufacturers may be
successful in controlling the piracy of our products. This could have a
negative effect on our growth and profitability in the future.

 

Moreover, as we leverage our software
products using emerging technologies such as the Internet and online services,
our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and to avoid infringing
intellectual property rights of others may diminish. We cannot be certain that
existing intellectual property laws will provide adequate protection for our
products in connection with these emerging technologies.

 

We may be subject to intellectual
property claims.

 

As the number of interactive entertainment
software products increases and the features and content of these products
continue to overlap, software developers increasingly may become subject to
infringement claims. Many of our products are highly realistic and feature
materials that are based on real world examples, which may inadvertently
infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our products often
utilize complex, cutting edge technology that may become subject to the
intellectual property rights of others. Although we believe that we make
reasonable

 

13












 

efforts to ensure that our
products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is
possible that third parties still may claim infringement. From time to time, we
receive communications from third parties regarding such claims. Existing or
future infringement claims against us, whether valid or not, may be time
consuming and expensive to defend.

 

Intellectual property litigation or claims
could force us to do one or more of the following:

 

•                  Cease
selling, incorporating, or using products or services that incorporate the
challenged intellectual property;

 

•                  Obtain
a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property, which if
available at all, may not be available on commercially favorable terms; or

 

•                  Redesign
the affected interactive entertainment software products, which could cause us
to incur additional costs, delay introduction and possibly reduce commercial
appeal of our products.

 

Any of these actions may cause material harm
to our business and financial results.

 

We rely on independent third
parties to develop some of our software products.

 

We rely on independent third-party
interactive entertainment software developers to develop some of our software
products. Since we depend on these developers, in the aggregate, we remain
subject to the following risks:

 

•                  Continuing
strong demand for developers’ resources, combined with the recognition they
receive in connection with their work, may cause developers who worked for us
in the past either to work for our competitors in the future or to renegotiate
our agreements with them on terms less favorable for us;

 

•                  Limited
financial resources and business expertise and inability to retain skilled
personnel may force developers out of business prior to completing our products
or require us to fund additional costs; and

 

•                  Our
competitors may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to
exclusive development arrangements. In either case, we would not be able to
continue to engage such developers’ services for our products, except for those
that they are contractually obligated to complete for us.

 

Increased competition for skilled third-party
software developers also has compelled us to agree to make significant advance
payments on royalties to game developers. If the products subject to these
arrangements do not generate sufficient revenues to recover these royalty
advances, we would have to write-off unrecovered portions of these payments,
which could cause material harm to our business and financial results. Typically,
we pay developers a royalty based on a percentage of net revenues, less agreed
upon deductions, but in a few cases, we have agreed to pay developers fixed per
unit product royalties after royalty advances are fully recouped. To the extent
that sales prices of products on which we have agreed to pay a fixed per unit
royalty are marked down, our profitability could be adversely affected.

 

Our industry is highly competitive
and our competition may succeed in
narrowing our market share and reducing our sales.

 

We compete
primarily with other publishers of personal computer and video game console
interactive entertainment software. Our competitors
vary in size from small companies with limited resources to very large corporations
with significantly greater financial, marketing, and product development
resources than we have. In
addition, integrated video game console hardware and software companies such as
Sony Computer Entertainment, Nintendo Co. Ltd., and Microsoft Corporation
compete directly with us in the development of software titles for their
respective platforms. Certain of these competitors can spend more
money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive
marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay higher fees to
licensors for desirable motion picture, television, sports and character
properties, and pay more to third-party software developers than we can.

 

We also compete with other forms of
entertainment and leisure activities. For example, we believe that the overall
growth in the use of the Internet and online services by consumers may pose a
competitive threat if customers and potential customers spend less of their
available time using interactive entertainment software and more using the

 

14












 

Internet and online services. A number of software publishers who
compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing
online games for use by consumers over the Internet. Future increased consumer
acceptance and increases in the availability of online games or technological
advances in online game software or the Internet could result in a decline in
platform-based software and negatively impact sales of our products. Direct
sales of software over the Internet by competitors could materially adversely
affect our distribution business.

 

Competition in
our industry is intense and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge. While
many new products are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of “hit”
titles account for a significant portion of net revenue. Hit products published
by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we
anticipate, which could cause our product sales to fall below our expectations.
If our competitors develop more successful products, offer competitive products
at lower price points, or if we do not continue to develop consistently
high-quality and well-received products, our revenue, margins, and
profitability will decline.

 

We may face difficulty obtaining
access to retail shelf space necessary to market and sell our products
effectively.

 

Retailers of our products typically have a
limited amount of shelf space and promotional resources, and there is intense
competition among consumer interactive entertainment software products for high
quality retail shelf space and promotional support from retailers. To the
extent that the number of products and platforms increases, competition for
shelf space may intensify and may require us to increase our marketing
expenditures. Retailers with limited shelf space typically devote the most and
highest quality shelf space to those products expected to be best sellers. We
cannot be certain that our new products will consistently achieve such “best
seller” status. Due to increased competition for limited shelf space, retailers
and distributors are in an increasingly better position to negotiate favorable
terms of sale, including price discounts, price protection, marketing and
display fees, and product return policies. Our products constitute a relatively
small percentage of any retailer’s sales volume. We cannot be certain that
retailers will continue to purchase our products or to provide our products
with adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support on acceptable terms.
A prolonged failure in this regard may significantly harm our business and
financial results.

 

Our sales may decline
substantially without warning and in a brief period of time because we do not
have long-term contracts for the sale of our products.

 

In the United States and Canada, we primarily
sell our products on a direct basis to mass-market retailers, consumer
electronics stores, discount warehouses, and game specialty stores. Our products
are sold internationally on a direct-to-retail basis, through third-party
distribution and licensing arrangements and through our wholly-owned European
distribution subsidiaries. Our sales are made primarily on a purchase order
basis without long-term agreements or other forms of commitments. Our largest
customers, Wal-Mart and GameStop, accounted for approximately 22% and 10% of consolidated net revenues for the year
ended March 31, 2006. For the year ended March 31, 2005, our largest customer,
Wal-Mart, accounted for 23% of consolidated net revenues. The loss of,
or significant reduction in sales to, any of our principal retail customers or
distributors could significantly harm our business and financial results.

 

We may be burdened with payment
defaults and uncollectible accounts if our distributors or retailers cannot
honor their credit arrangement with us.

 

Distributors and retailers in the interactive
entertainment software industry have from time to time experienced significant
fluctuations in their businesses and a number of them have failed. The
insolvency or business failure of any significant retailer or distributor of
our products could materially harm our business and financial results. We
typically make sales to most of our retailers and some distributors on
unsecured credit, with terms that vary depending upon the customer’s credit
history, solvency, credit limits, and sales history, as well as whether we can
obtain sufficient credit insurance. Although, as in the case with most of our
customers, we have insolvency risk insurance to protect against our customers’
bankruptcy, insolvency, or liquidation, this insurance contains a significant
deductible and a co-payment obligation, and the policy does not cover all
instances of non-payment. In addition, although we maintain a reserve for
uncollectible receivables, the reserve may not be sufficient in every
circumstance. As a result, a payment default by a significant customer could
significantly harm our business and financial results.

 

15












 

We may not be able to maintain our
distribution relationships with key vendors.

 

Our CD Contact, NBG, and Centresoft
subsidiaries distribute interactive entertainment software and hardware
products and provide related services in the Benelux countries, Germany, and
the United Kingdom, respectively, and via export in other European countries
for a variety of entertainment software publishers, many of which are our
competitors, and hardware manufacturers. These services are generally performed
under limited term contracts. Although we expect to use reasonable efforts to
retain these vendors, we may not be successful in this regard. The cancellation
or non-renewal of one or more of these contracts could significantly harm our
business and financial results. Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft products
accounted for approximately 24%, 3%, and 3%, respectively, of our worldwide
distribution net revenues for fiscal 2006.

 

Our international revenues may be
subject to regulatory requirements as well as currency fluctuations.

 

Our international revenues have accounted for
a significant portion of our total revenues. International sales and licensing
accounted for 52%, 50%, and 53% of our consolidated net revenues in fiscal
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. We expect that international revenues will
continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues in the
future. International sales may be subject to unexpected regulatory
requirements, tariffs, and other barriers. Additionally, foreign sales that are
made in local currencies may fluctuate. We have and may continue to engage in
limited currency hedging activities. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may in
the future have a material negative impact on revenues from international sales
and licensing and thus our business and financial results.

 

We are subject to the rating of our content by the Entertainment
Software Rating Board. Failure to obtain our target ratings for our products
could negatively impact our sales.

 

The
Entertainment Software Rating Board, sometimes referred to as the ESRB,
requires game publishers to provide consumers with information relating to
graphic violence, profanity, or sexually explicit material contained in
software titles, and imposes significant penalties for noncompliance. Certain
countries have also established similar rating systems as prerequisites for
product sales in those countries. In some instances, we may be required to
modify our products to comply with the requirements of rating systems, which
could delay or disrupt the release of our products. Our software titles receive
a rating of “E” (age 6 and older), “E10+” (age 10 and older), “T” (age 13 and
over), or “M” (age 17 and over). Many of our titles have received an “M” rating.
None of our titles have received the “AO” rating (18 and over). We believe that
we comply with rating systems and properly display the ratings and content
descriptions received for our titles. If we are unable to obtain the ratings we
have targeted for our products as a result of changes in the ESRB’s ratings
standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this
area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected.

 

The ESRB
requires publishers to conduct pertinent content audit certifications with
respect to certain top selling titles, the objective of which is to assess what
portion, if any, of the games on the market include undisclosed pertinent
content on the disc that undermines the accuracy of the ESRB rating. This self
audit procedure applies to certain current titles and may be applied to
additional titles in the future. We are currently conducting a self audit in
accordance with the ESRB’s requirements. It is possible that there may be
content in our games that could be determined to be pertinent content that
causes a change to our current ESRB rating. In such event, we may be required
to record a reserve for anticipated product returns and inventory obsolescence
which could expose us to additional litigation, administrative fines and
penalties, and other potential liabilities, and could adversely affect our
operating results.

 

Our business,
products, and distribution are subject to increasing regulation in key
territories of content, consumer piracy, and online delivery. If we do not
successfully respond to these regulations, our business may suffer.

 

Legislation is continually being introduced
that may affect both the content of our products and their distribution. For
example, privacy laws in the United States and Europe impose various
restrictions on our web sites. Those rules vary by territory although the
Internet recognizes no geographical boundaries. In addition, many foreign
countries have laws that permit governmental entities to censor the content and
advertising of interactive entertainment software. Other countries, such as
Germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged goods and those
transmitted over the Internet that are stricter than current United States
laws.

 

Several
proposals have been made for federal legislation in the United States to
regulate our industry, including a bill, referred to as The Family
Entertainment Protection Act, which was recently introduced into the

 

16












 

Senate. Such bill proposes to prohibit the sale of “M” rated, “AO”
rated, and “Rating Pending” products to under-17 audiences. If the bill is
adopted into law, it may limit the potential market for our “M” rated products,
and adversely affect our operating results. We may also be
required to modify our products or alter our marketing strategies to comply
with new regulations, which could delay the release of our products. Due to the
uncertainties regarding such regulations, confusion in the marketplace may
occur, and we are unable to predict what effect, if any, such regulations would
have on our business. In addition, a number of state legislative bodies in
states such as Illinois, California, New York, and Washington introduced
various forms of legislation designed to regulate and control sales of video
games deemed inappropriate for sales to minors. In the event such legislation
is adopted and enforced, the sales of our products in states with such laws may
be negatively affected.

 

Our products may be subject to legal
claims.

 

In prior fiscal years, two lawsuits, Linda Sanders, et al. v. Meow Media, Inc., et al., United
States District Court for the District of Colorado, and Joe James,
et al. v. Meow Media, Inc., et al., United States District Court for
the Western District of Kentucky, Paducah Division, have been filed against
numerous video game companies, including us, by the families of victims who
were shot and killed by teenage gunmen in attacks perpetrated at schools. These
lawsuits alleged that the video game companies manufactured and/or supplied
these teenagers with violent video games, teaching them how to use a gun and
causing them to act out in a violent manner. These lawsuits have been dismissed.
Similar additional lawsuits may be filed in the future. Although our general
liability insurance carrier agreed to defend us in such lawsuits in the past,
it is uncertain whether the insurance carrier would do so in the future, or if
it would cover all or any amounts which we might be liable for if such future lawsuits
are not decided in our favor. If such future lawsuits are filed and ultimately
decided against us and our insurance carrier does not cover the amounts we are
liable for, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and
financial results. Payment of significant claims by insurance carriers may make
such insurance coverage materially more expensive or unavailable in the future,
thereby exposing our business to additional risk.

 

We may face limitations on our
ability to find suitable acquisition opportunities or to integrate additional
acquired businesses.

 

We intend to pursue additional acquisitions
of companies, properties, and other assets that can be purchased or licensed on
acceptable terms and which we believe can be operated or exploited profitably. Some
of these transactions could be material in size and scope. Although we continue
to search for additional acquisition opportunities, we may not be successful in
identifying suitable acquisitions. As the interactive entertainment software industry
continues to consolidate, we face significant competition in seeking and
consummating acquisition opportunities. We may not be able to consummate
potential acquisitions or an acquisition may not enhance our business or may
decrease rather than increase our earnings. In the future, we may issue
additional shares of our common stock in connection with one or more
acquisitions, which may dilute our existing shareholders. Future acquisitions
could also divert substantial management time and result in short-term
reductions in earnings or special transaction or other charges. In addition, we
cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses
that we may acquire into our existing business. Our shareholders may not have
the opportunity to review, vote on, or evaluate future acquisitions.

 

From time to time, we may make a capital
investment and hold a minority interest in a third-party developer in
connection with interactive entertainment software products to be developed by
such developer for us, which we believe helps to create a closer relationship
between us and the developer. We account for those capital investments over
which we have the ability to exercise significant influence using the equity
method. For those investments over which we do not have the ability to exercise
significant influence, we account for our investment using the cost method. There
can be no assurance that we will realize long-term benefits from such
investments or that we will continue to carry such investments at their current
value.

 

We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely
fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand.

 

A significant
portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is comprised of
personnel and facilities. In the event of a significant decline in revenues, we
may not be able to exit facilities, reduce personnel, or make other changes to
our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant
termination and exit costs. Management may not be able to implement such
actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in
revenues and profit.

 

17












 

Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities
could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.

 

We are subject
to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant
judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes
and, in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and
calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also
required to estimate what our taxes will be in the future. Although we believe
our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimate process is inherently uncertain,
and our estimates are not binding on tax authorities. Our effective tax rate
could be adversely affected by changes in our business, including the mix of
earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the
elections we make, changes in applicable tax laws as well as other factors. Further,
our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and
developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Should
our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax provision and
net income could be materially affected. 

 

We are also required to pay taxes other than income
taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, and goods
and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions.
We are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these
non-income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these
examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will
not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.

 

Our shareholder rights plan,
charter documents, and other agreements may make it more difficult to acquire
us without the approval of our Board of Directors.

 

We have adopted a shareholder rights plan under which one right
entitling the holder to purchase one six-hundredths (1/600) of a share, as
adjusted on account of stock dividends made since the plan’s adoption, of our
Series A Junior Preferred Stock price at an exercise price of $6.67 per share,
subject to adjustment and as adjusted on account of stock dividends made since
the plan’s adoption, is attached to each outstanding share of common stock. Such
shareholder rights plan makes an acquisition of control in a transaction not
approved by our Board of Directors more difficult. Our Amended and Restated
By-laws have advance notice provisions for nominations for election of nominees
to the Board of Directors which may make it more difficult to acquire control
of us. Our long-term incentive plans provide, in the discretion of a committee,
for acceleration of stock options following a change in control under certain
circumstances, which has the effect of making an acquisition of control more
expensive. In addition, some of our officers have severance compensation
agreements that provide for substantial cash payments and accelerations of
other benefits in the event of a change in control. These agreements and
arrangements may also inhibit a change in control.

 

Our stock price is highly
volatile.

 

The trading price of our common stock has
been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many
factors, including:

 

•                              Quarter
to quarter variations in results of operations;

 

•                              Our
announcements of new products;

 

•                              Our
competitors’ announcements of new products;

 

•                              Our
product development or release schedule;

 

•                              General
conditions in the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics
industries, and in the economy;

 

•                              Timing
of the introduction of new platforms and delays in the actual release of new
platforms;

 

•                              Hardware
manufacturers’ announcements of price reductions in hardware platforms;

 

•                              Consumer
spending trends;

 

18












 

•                              Changes
in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; and

 

•                              Investor
perceptions and expectations regarding our products, plans and strategic
position, and those of our competitors and customers.

 

In addition, the public stock markets
experience extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in high
technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected
the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons often
unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad
market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

 

We seek to manage our business with a view to
achieving long-term results, and this could have a negative effect on
short-term trading.

 

We focus on
creation of shareholder value over time, and we intend to make decisions that
will be consistent with this long-term view. As a result, some of our
decisions, such as whether to make or discontinue operating investments, manage
our balance sheet and capital structure, or pursue or discontinue strategic
initiatives, may be in conflict with the objectives of short-term traders. Further,
this could adversely affect our quarterly or other short-term results of
operations.

 

Financial
Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales

 

See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 10 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.

 

Available Information

 

Our website is located at
http://www.activision.com. Furthermore, our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to
those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act are available free of charge and through our website. The
information found on our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated by
reference into, this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.

 

Item 1B