ITEM 1a.    RISK FACTORS        

        Our
operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences, including those described below. This Item 1a. includes forward-looking statements. You should refer to
our discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. 

 We may fail to consummate the Archstone Acquisition or may not consummate it on the terms described in this report.  

        We expect to consummate the Archstone Acquisition during the first quarter of 2013, assuming that all of the conditions in the related
asset purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") are satisfied or waived. The consummation of the Archstone Acquisition, however, is subject to certain closing conditions, including conditions that
must be met by Equity Residential and which are beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that such conditions will be satisfied on the anticipated schedule or at all. In addition, under
certain circumstances, we or Lehman may terminate the Purchase Agreement. As a result, there can be no assurance that the Archstone Acquisition will be consummated in its entirety in accordance with
the anticipated timing or at all. 

        In
addition, if the Archstone Acquisition does not occur we will not recover our costs and expenses incurred in connection with the transaction and we may be liable for all or a portion
of the $800,000,000 termination fee, if payable. 

 We and/or Equity Residential may fail to perform under the Purchase Agreement or may not perform on the terms prescribed.  


        We don't believe that we could meet, or that Equity Residential could meet, the obligations, as buyer, set forth in the Purchase
Agreement without the timely performance of the other. Thus, we and Equity Residential are each dependent upon the performance of the other to meet the buyer's obligations under the Purchase
Agreement. A default by either party under the Purchase Agreement could give rise to adverse consequences to the breaching party pursuant to certain arrangements between us and Equity Residential.
Under our arrangements with Equity Residential, if the termination of the Purchase Agreement is solely a result of a breach by either us or Equity Residential then the breaching party shall be solely
responsible for, and shall indemnify the non-breaching party against, the fees and expenses, including the termination fee of up to $800,000,000, payable to Lehman resulting from a failure
to consummate the acquisition, and any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by such non-breaching party in connection with enforcing its rights against the breaching
party. 

 Our business and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected if the Archstone Acquisition is not completed.  

        The Archstone Acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions. If the Archstone Acquisition is not completed, we could be
subject to a number of risks that may
adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock, including:



•the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects an assumption that
the Archstone Acquisition will be completed; 
•we must pay certain costs related to the Archstone Acquisition, such as legal and accounting fees and expenses, regardless
of whether the Archstone Acquisition is consummated; 
•we would not realize the benefits we expect to realize from consummating the Archstone Acquisition; and  
•we, together with Equity Residential, may be liable for a termination fee of up to $800,000,000. 

10




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 We will incur substantial expenses and payments even if the Archstone Acquisition is not completed.  

        We have incurred substantial legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs and our management has devoted considerable time and
effort in connection with the Archstone Acquisition. If the Archstone Acquisition is not completed, we will bear certain fees and expenses associated with the Archstone Acquisition without realizing
the benefits of the Archstone Acquisition. The fees and expenses may be significant and could have an adverse impact on our operating results. For instance, if Lehman terminates the Purchase Agreement
due to a breach by us or a failure by us to satisfy a condition precedent to Lehman's obligation to close the Archstone Acquisition, we would be obligated to pay to Lehman a termination fee of up to
$800,000,000. 

 We intend to assume indebtedness in connection with the Archstone Acquisition, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and our
ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 

        We
intend to assume $3,700,000,000 principal amount of consolidated indebtedness in connection with the Archstone Acquisition, which will increase our leverage
and the ratio of our net debt to our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. 

        We
expect to repay contemporaneously with the closing up to $1,700,000,000 principal amount of assumed indebtedness from the Archstone Acquisition. However, there can be no assurance
that we will be able to reduce or refinance, over time, to the extent we anticipate, the indebtedness we are assuming. Therefore, the increase in indebtedness we will incur at closing of the Archstone
Acquisition could have adverse consequences on our business, such as:



•requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which would reduce
the available cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general corporate purposes such as dividends; 
•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital needs, acquisitions, capital expenditures
or other debt service requirements or for other purposes; 
•limiting our ability to compete with other companies that are not as highly leveraged, as we may be less capable of
responding to adverse economic and industry conditions; 
•restricting us from making other strategic acquisitions, developing additional properties or exploiting other business
opportunities; 
•restricting the way in which we conduct our business because of financial and operating covenants in the agreements
governing our and our subsidiaries' existing and future indebtedness; 
•exposing us to potential events of default (if not cured or waived) under financial and operating covenants contained in
our or our subsidiaries' debt instruments that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results; 
•increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions; and  
•limiting our ability to react to changing market conditions in our industry. 


        In
addition to our debt service obligations, our operations may require substantial investments on a continuing basis. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments, to refinance our
obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to fund capital and non-capital expenditures necessary to maintain the condition of our operating assets and properties, as well as to
provide capacity for the growth of our business, depends on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive,
legal and other factors. 

11




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 The intended benefits of the Archstone Acquisition may not be realized, which could have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock after the Archstone
Acquisition.  

        The Archstone Acquisition poses risks for our ongoing operations, including that:



•our senior management's attention may be diverted from the management of daily operations to the integration of the
Archstone Acquisition, including management of assets located outside of our core markets pending disposition, which may disrupt management of our existing business and our relationships with our
customers; 
•we may bear costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities;  
•the Archstone Acquisition may not perform as well as we anticipate; and  
•unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating the Archstone Acquisition into our portfolio. 


        Also,
we expect to acquire assets and assume liabilities in connection with the Archstone Acquisition on an "as is" basis with only limited representations from Lehman surviving after
the closing of the Archstone Acquisition, which limits our recourse against the seller for breaches of representations after closing, which in turn may expose us to unexpected material losses or
expenses after the closing. 

        In
addition, our diligence investigations with respect to the assets comprising the Archstone Acquisition, has been more limited than would be the case if we were acquiring individual
apartment communities or land parcels, which may also expose us to unexpected material losses or expenses after the closing. 

        As
a result of the foregoing, we cannot assure you that the Archstone Acquisition will be accretive to us in the near term or at all. Furthermore, if we fail to realize the intended
benefits of the Archstone Acquisition, the market price of our common stock could decline to the extent that the market price reflects those anticipated benefits. 

 The Archstone Acquisition will significantly increase the size of our real estate portfolio and related personnel and operating and financial needs, and we may not be
successful in integrating the Archstone Acquisition into our business.  

        The Archstone Acquisition involves a variety of risks, including potential difficulties in integrating the portfolio, diversions of our
management resources, differing levels of management and internal control effectiveness at the acquired entities and other unanticipated problems and liabilities. Any of these risks could adversely
affect our financial results and reduce or delay our ability to obtain the expected benefits of the Archstone Acquisition. 

        In
addition, the increased need for financial resources that will result from the Archstone Acquisition, as well as the diversion of our management resources, may affect our existing
development, redevelopment and acquisition portfolios and development rights pipeline. As a result, there may be unexpected delays in the timing of our activities relating to our existing real estate
portfolios and development rights pipeline, and we may encounter unexpected costs or we may not succeed in obtaining the expected benefits of our currently expected real estate development,
redevelopment and acquisition activities. These issues could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. 

 The governance provisions of our joint ventures with Equity Residential could adversely affect our flexibility in dealing with such joint venture assets and
liabilities. 

        In
connection with the Archstone Acquisition, we expect to create joint ventures with Equity Residential to manage certain of the acquired assets and
liabilities. These structures involve 

12




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

participation
in the investment by Equity Residential whose interests and rights may not be the same as ours. Joint ownership of an investment in real estate involves risks not associated with direct
ownership of real estate, including the risk that Equity Residential may at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which become inconsistent with our business interests or goals,
including inconsistent goals relating to the sale of properties held in the joint ventures or the timing of the termination and liquidation of the joint ventures. Under the expected form for the joint
venture arrangements, neither we nor Equity Residential expect to have the power to control the ventures, and an impasse could occur, which would adversely affect the applicable joint venture and
decrease potential returns to us and our investors. 

 We expect to assume substantially all liabilities related to the Archstone Acquisition, and may be responsible for liabilities that were not known when we entered into the
Purchase Agreement.  

        Under the Purchase Agreement, we and Equity Residential will assume substantially all liabilities related to the Archstone portfolio,
whether or not they were known by us and Equity Residential at the time we entered into the Purchase Agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify Lehman with respect to these liabilities. Under the
Purchase Agreement, we would be solely liable for these obligations if Equity Residential were to default on its obligation to share these indemnification obligations with us. As a result, we could
become liable for liabilities that are not currently known to us, and the amount of these liabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

 We intend to dispose of certain assets acquired in connection with the Archstone Acquisition, but we may be unable to achieve the expected proceeds of these acquisitions or
may be unable to dispose of these assets at all.  

        We intend to dispose of certain assets acquired in connection with the Archstone Acquisition, including assets held in our joint
ventures with Equity Residential, but we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any of the properties on favorable terms and conditions, if at all, or the length of time over which we expect
to sell any of the assets. We may be unable to sell some of the properties, which may adversely affect our liquidity, or we may have to sell properties at depressed prices, which could adversely
affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our joint ventures with Equity Residential will own, among other assets, investments in apartment communities in Germany, and we will acquire
from Archstone interests in U.S. markets that we are not currently in, including Florida, Georgia and Texas. Our efforts to manage, position and/or dispose of these investments may distract management
and we may not achieve the intended results. 

 Future sales or issuances of our common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to decline.  

        In connection with the Archstone Acquisition, we will issue shares of our common stock under the Purchase Agreement, and we will be
required to register the resale of such shares of common stock under the Securities Act. The sale of substantial amounts of our common stock, whether directly by us or in the secondary market, the
perception that such sales could occur or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock, could
adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. 

 Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability.  

        We intend to continue to develop and redevelop apartment home communities. These activities can include long planning and entitlement
timelines and can involve complex and costly activities, 

13




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

including
significant environmental remediation or construction work in high-density urban areas. These activities may be exposed to the following
risks:



•we may abandon opportunities that we have already begun to explore for a number of reasons, including changes in local
market conditions or increases in construction or financing costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in exploring those opportunities;  
•occupancy rates and rents at a community may fail to meet our original expectations for a number of reasons, including
changes in market and economic conditions beyond our control and the development by competitors of competing communities; 
•we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, occupancy, or other required governmental
or third party permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or the delay or abandonment of opportunities; 
•we may incur costs that exceed our original estimates due to increased material, labor or other costs;  
•we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule, resulting in increased
construction and financing costs and a decrease in expected rental revenues; 
•we may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at all, for the proposed development of a community, which
may cause us to delay or abandon an opportunity; 
•we may incur liabilities to third parties during the development process, for example, in connection with managing
existing improvements on the site prior to tenant terminations and demolition (such as commercial space) or in connection with providing services to third parties (such as the construction of shared
infrastructure or other improvements); and 
•we may incur liability if our communities are not constructed and operated in compliance with the accessibility provisions
of the Americans with Disabilities Acts, the Fair Housing Act or other federal, state or local requirements. Noncompliance could result in imposition of fines, an award of damages to private
litigants, and a requirement that we undertake structural modifications to remedy the noncompliance. 


        We
estimate construction costs based on market conditions at the time we prepare our budgets, and our projections include changes that we anticipate but cannot predict with certainty.
Construction costs may increase, particularly for labor and certain materials and, for some of our Development Communities and Development Rights (as defined below), the total construction costs may
be higher than the original budget. Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs incurred and projected to be incurred to develop or redevelop a community, determined in accordance with GAAP,
including:



•land and/or property acquisition costs; 
•fees paid to secure air rights and/or tax abatements; 
•construction or reconstruction costs; 
•costs of environmental remediation; 
•real estate taxes; 
•capitalized interest and insurance; 
•loan fees; 
•permits; 
•professional fees; 

14




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•allocated development or redevelopment overhead; and 
•other regulatory fees. 


        Costs
to redevelop communities that have been acquired have, in some cases, exceeded our original estimates and similar increases in costs may be experienced in the future. We cannot
assure you that market rents in effect at the time new development or redevelopment communities complete lease-up will be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased
construction or reconstruction costs. 

 Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could adversely affect occupancy, rental rates, operating expenses, and the overall market value of our assets,
including joint ventures and investments in the Funds.  

        Local conditions in our markets significantly affect occupancy, rental rates and the operating performance of our communities. The
risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets include the following:



•plant closings, industry slowdowns and other factors that adversely affect the local economy;  
•an oversupply of, or a reduced demand for, apartment homes; 
•a decline in household formation or employment or lack of employment growth;  
•the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases; 
•rent control or rent stabilization laws, or other laws regulating housing, that could prevent us from raising rents to
offset increases in operating costs; and 
•economic conditions that could cause an increase in our operating expenses, such as increases in property taxes,
utilities, compensation of on-site associates and routine maintenance. 


 Changes in applicable laws, or noncompliance with applicable laws, could adversely affect our operations or expose us to liability.  


        We must develop, construct and operate our communities in compliance with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, some
of which may conflict with one another or be subject to limited judicial or regulatory interpretations. These laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, landlord tenant laws and
other laws generally applicable to business operations. Noncompliance with laws could expose us to liability. 

        Lower
revenue growth or significant unanticipated expenditures may result from our need to comply with changes in (i) laws imposing remediation requirements and the potential
liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws or other residential
landlord/tenant laws, or (iii) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the development, use and operation of our communities, including changes to building
codes and fire and life-safety codes. 

 Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents.  

        Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. Because these leases generally permit the residents to
leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. 

15




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Competition could limit our ability to lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents.  

        Our apartment communities compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents, including other rental apartments, condominiums
and single-family homes that are available for rent, as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential housing in a particular area could adversely
affect our ability to lease apartment homes and to increase or maintain rental rates. 

 Attractive investment opportunities may not be available, which could adversely affect our profitability.  

        We expect that other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension funds, other REITs and other
well-capitalized investors, will compete with us to acquire existing properties and to develop new properties. This competition could increase prices for properties of the type we would
likely pursue and adversely affect our profitability. 

 Capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect our access to various sources of capital and/or the cost of capital, which could impact our business activities,
dividends, earnings, and common stock price, among other things.  

        In periods when the capital and credit markets experience significant volatility, the amounts, sources and cost of capital available to
us may be adversely affected. We primarily use external financing to fund construction and to refinance indebtedness as it matures. If sufficient sources of external financing are not available to us
on cost effective terms, we could be forced to limit our development and redevelopment activity and/or take other actions to fund our business activities and repayment of debt, such as selling assets,
reducing our cash dividend or paying out less than 100% of our taxable income. To the extent that we are able and/or choose to access capital at a higher cost than we have experienced in recent years
(reflected in higher interest rates for debt financing or a lower stock price for equity financing) our earnings per share and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, the price of our
common stock may fluctuate significantly and/or decline in a high interest rate or volatile economic environment. We believe that the lenders under our Credit Facility will fulfill their lending
obligations thereunder, but if economic conditions deteriorate, there can be no assurance that the ability of those lenders to fulfill their obligations would not be adversely impacted. 


 Insufficient cash flow could affect our debt financing and create refinancing risk.  

        We are subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required
payments of principal and interest. In this regard, we note that in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT, we are required to annually distribute dividends generally equal to at least 90% of
our REIT taxable income, computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain. This requirement limits the amount of our cash flow available to meet required principal and
interest payments. The principal outstanding balance on a portion of our debt will not be fully amortized prior to its maturity. Although we may be able to repay our debt by using our cash flows, we
cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash flows available to make all required principal payments. Therefore, we may need to refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it
matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that a refinancing will not be done on as favorable terms; either of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition and results of operations. 

 Rising interest rates could increase interest costs and could affect the market price of our common stock.  

        We currently have, and may in the future incur, contractual variable interest rate debt. In addition, we regularly seek access to both
fixed and variable rate debt financing to repay maturing debt and to finance our development and redevelopment activity. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, our interest costs will also rise,
unless we have made arrangements that hedge the risk of rising interest rates. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a greater annual
dividend yield, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 

16






<A
NAME="page_de72601_1_17"> 



































  
Table of Contents 

 Bond financing and zoning compliance requirements could limit our income, restrict the use of communities and cause favorable financing to become unavailable.  

        We have financed some of our apartment communities with obligations issued by local government agencies because the interest paid to
the holders of this debt is generally exempt from federal income taxes and, therefore, the interest rate is generally more favorable to us. These obligations are commonly referred to as
"tax-exempt bonds" and generally must be secured by mortgages on our communities. As a condition to obtaining tax-exempt financing, or on occasion as a condition to obtaining
favorable zoning in some jurisdictions, we will commit to make some of the apartments in a community available to households whose income does not exceed certain thresholds (e.g., 50% or 80% of
area median income), or who meet other qualifying tests. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 6.47% of our apartment homes at current operating communities were under income limitations such
as these. These commitments, which may run without expiration or may expire after a period of time (such as 15 or 20 years) may limit our ability to raise rents and, in consequence, can also
adversely affect the value of the communities subject to these restrictions. 

        In
addition, some of our tax-exempt bond financing documents require us to obtain a guarantee from a financial institution of payment of the principal of, and interest on,
the bonds. The guarantee may take the form of a letter of credit, surety bond, guarantee agreement or other additional
collateral. If the financial institution defaults in its guarantee obligations, or if we are unable to renew the applicable guarantee or otherwise post satisfactory collateral, a default will occur
under the applicable tax-exempt bonds and the community could be foreclosed upon if we do not redeem the bonds. 

 Risks related to indebtedness.  

        We have a Credit Facility with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing lender, issuing bank and a bank, JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., as a bank and as syndication agent, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, Morgan Stanley Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., each as a bank and as documentation agent, Barclays
Bank PLC as a bank and as co-documentation agent, UBS AG, Stamford Branch, as a co-documentation agent, Goldman Sachs Bank USA, The Bank of New York Mellon, Compass
Bank, PNC Bank, National Association, and Suntrust Bank, each as a bank and as a managing agent, Branch Banking and Trust Company, Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., and Capital One, N.A.,
each as a bank and as a co-agent, and the other bank parties signatory thereto. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that may be incurred.
Accordingly, subject to compliance with outstanding debt covenants, we could incur more debt, resulting in an increased risk of default on our obligations and an increase in debt service requirements
that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 

        The
mortgages on those of our properties that are subject to secured debt, our Credit Facility and the indenture under which a substantial portion of our debt was issued contain
customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations, as well as certain financial and operating covenants including maintenance of certain financial ratios. Maintaining compliance with these
restrictions could limit our flexibility. A default in these requirements, if uncured, could result in a requirement that we repay indebtedness, which could severely affect our liquidity and increase
our financing costs. Refer to Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," for further discussion. 

        The
mortgages on those of our properties subject to secured debt generally include provisions which stipulate a prepayment penalty or payment that we will be obligated to pay in the
event that we elect to repay the mortgage note prior to the earlier of (i) the stated maturity of the note, or (ii) the date at which the mortgage note is prepayable without such penalty
or payment. If we elect to repay some or all of the outstanding principal balance for our mortgage notes, we may incur prepayment penalties or payments under these provisions which could adversely
affect our results of operations. 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Failure to maintain our current credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, related margins, liquidity and access to capital markets.  

        There are two major debt rating agencies that routinely evaluate and rate our debt. These ratings are based on a number of factors,
which include their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality amount of real estate under development, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings, among other
factors. If market conditions change, we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings, which could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, and access to capital
markets. 

 We could be negatively impacted by the condition of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.  

        Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are a major source of secured financing to the multifamily industry and we have used Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac for a portion of our financing needs. In February 2011, the Obama administration released a report calling for the winding down of the role that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac play in the mortgage
market. A final decision by the government to eliminate Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or reduce their acquisitions or guarantees of multifamily community loans may adversely affect interest rates, capital
availability, and the value of multifamily communities. 

 Debt financing may not be available and equity issuances could be dilutive to our stockholders.  

        Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt and equity financing. Debt financing
may not be available in sufficient amounts or on favorable terms. If we issue additional equity securities, the interests of existing stockholders could be diluted. 

 Failure to generate sufficient revenue or other liquidity needs could limit cash flow available for distributions to stockholders.  

        A decrease in rental revenue, or liquidity needs such as the repayment of indebtedness or funding of our development activities, could
have an adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Significant expenditures associated with each community such as
debt service payments, if any, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from a community. 


 The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations.  

        The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend
on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as the Board of Directors
may consider relevant. The Board of Directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time. 

 We may choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case stockholders may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash they receive.  


        We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock, as we did in the fourth quarter of 2008. Taxable
stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax
purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in
order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore,
with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

respect
to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, the trading price of our stock would experience downward pressure if a
significant number of our stockholders sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends. 

 Difficulty of selling apartment communities could limit liquidity and financial flexibility.  


        Federal tax laws may limit our ability to earn a gain on the sale of a community (unless we own it through a subsidiary which will
incur a taxable gain upon sale) if we are found to have held, acquired or developed the community primarily with the intent to resell the community, and this limitation may affect our ability to sell
communities without adversely affecting returns to our stockholders. In addition, real estate in our markets can at times be difficult to sell quickly at prices we find acceptable. These potential
difficulties in selling real estate in our markets may limit our ability to change or reduce the apartment communities in our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. 


 Acquisitions may not yield anticipated results.  

        Our business strategy includes acquiring as well as developing communities. Our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed
to the following risks:



•an acquired property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment; and  
•our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove inaccurate. 


 Failure to succeed in new markets, or with new brands and community formats, or in activities other than the development, ownership and operation of residential rental
communities may have adverse consequences.  

        We may from time to time commence development activity or make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if appropriate
opportunities arise. Our historical experience in our existing markets in developing, owning and operating rental communities does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new
markets, should we choose to enter them. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to accurately evaluate local apartment market conditions; an
inability to obtain land for development or to
identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; an inability to hire and retain key personnel; and lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. 

        Although
we are primarily in the multifamily business, we also own and lease ancillary retail space when a retail component represents the best use of the space, as is often the case
with large urban in-fill developments. We also may engage or have an interest in for-sale activity. We may be unsuccessful in owning and leasing retail space at our communities
or in developing real estate with the intent to sell, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 


        We
are currently implementing two new brands of communities that target various customer preferences. We cannot assure that these brands will be successful or that our costs in
developing and implementing these brands will result in incremental revenue and earnings. 

 Land we hold with no current intent to develop may be subject to future impairment charges.  

        We own parcels of land that we do not currently intend to develop. As discussed in Item 2., "Communities—Other Land
and Real Estate Assets," in the event that the fair market value of a parcel changes such that we determine that the carrying basis of the parcel reflected in our financial statements is greater than
the parcel's then current fair value, less costs to dispose, we would be subject to an impairment charge, which would reduce our net income. 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Risks involved in real estate activity through joint ventures.  

        Instead of acquiring or developing apartment communities directly, at times we invest as a partner or a co-venturer. Joint
venture investments (including investments through partnerships or limited liability companies) involve risks, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent or otherwise refuse to
make capital contributions when due; that we may be responsible to our partner for indemnifiable losses; that our partner might at any time have business goals which are inconsistent with ours; and
that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. Frequently, we and our partner may each have the right to trigger a
buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our
interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. 

 Risks associated with an investment in and management of discretionary real estate investment funds.  


        We formed Fund I and Fund II, in which we have an equity interest of 15.2% and 31.3%, respectively, which, through wholly-owned
subsidiaries, we manage as the general partner and in which we have an aggregate equity investment, excluding costs incurred in excess of our equity in the underlying net assets of each respective
fund, of approximately $129,059,000, net of distributions to us at December 31, 2012. The investment period for both Funds is over. These Funds present risks, including the
following:



•our subsidiaries that are the general partners of the Funds are generally liable, under partnership law, for the debts and
obligations of the respective Funds, subject to certain exculpation and indemnification rights pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of the Funds;  
•investors in the Funds holding a majority of the partnership interests may remove us as the general partner without cause,
subject to our right to receive an additional nine months of management fees after such removal and our right to acquire one of the properties then held by the Funds;  
•while we have broad discretion to manage the Funds and make investment decisions on behalf of the Funds, the investors or
an advisory committee comprised of representatives of the investors must approve certain matters, and as a result we may be unable to cause the Funds to implement certain decisions that we consider
beneficial; and 
•we may be liable and/or our status as a REIT may be jeopardized if either the Funds, or the REITs through which a number
of investors have invested in the Funds and which we manage, fail to comply with various tax or other regulatory matters. 


 Risk of earthquake damage.  

        As further described in Item 2., "Communities—Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses," many of our West Coast
communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults. We cannot assure you that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels. In the event of a
loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in the affected community, as well as anticipated future revenue from that community. We would also continue to be obligated to
repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the community. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition and results of operations. 

        Insurance
coverage for earthquakes can be costly due to limited industry capacity. As a result, we may experience shortages in desired coverage levels if market conditions are such that
insurance is not available or the cost of insurance makes it, in management's view, economically impractical. 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 A significant uninsured property or liability loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  


        In addition to the earthquake insurance discussed above, we carry commercial general liability insurance, property insurance and
terrorism insurance with respect to our communities on terms we consider commercially reasonable. There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses arising from acts of war) that are not
insured, in full or in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in management's view, economically impractical. If an uninsured property loss or a property loss in
excess of insured limits were to occur, we could lose our capital invested in a community, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such community. We would also continue to be obligated to
repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the community. If an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, we would incur the cost of defense and settlement with, or
court ordered damages to, that third party. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition and results of operations. 

 We may incur costs and increased expenses to repair property damage resulting from inclement weather.  

        Particularly in New England and the Metro New York/New Jersey area, we are exposed to risks associated with inclement winter weather,
including increased costs for the removal of snow and ice, repair of water and wind damage from storms, as well as from delays in construction. In addition, inclement weather could increase the need
for maintenance and repair of our communities. 

 We may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance.  

        Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and ordinances, we may be required, regardless
of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our properties (including in some cases natural substances
such as methane and radon gas) and may be held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property, personal injury or natural resources damages and for
investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial and may exceed any insurance coverage we have for such events. The presence of
such substances, or the failure to properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, develop, sell or rent the affected property. 

        In
addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result
of the contamination. 

        The
development, construction and operation of our communities are subject to regulations and permitting under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which
regulate matters including wetlands protection, storm water runoff and wastewater discharge. Such laws and regulations may impose restrictions on the manner in which our communities may be developed,
and noncompliance with such laws and regulations may subject us to fines and penalties. We do not currently anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result of noncompliance with
these laws. 

        Certain
federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos containing materials ("ACMs") when such materials are in
poor condition or in the event of renovation or demolition of a building. These laws and the common law may impose liability for release of ACMs and may allow third parties to seek recovery
from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to ACMs. We are not aware that any
ACMs were used in the construction of the communities we developed. ACMs were, however, used in the construction of a number of the communities that we acquired. We implement an
operations and 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

maintenance
program at each of the communities at which ACMs are detected. We do not currently anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of
ACMs at our communities. 

        We
are aware that some of our communities have lead paint and have implemented an operations and maintenance program at each of those communities. We do not currently anticipate that we
will incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of lead paint at our communities. 

        Environmental
agencies and third parties may assert claims for remediation or personal injury based on the alleged actual or potential intrusion into buildings of chemical vapors from
soils or groundwater underlying or in the vicinity of those buildings or on nearby properties. We currently do not anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result of vapor intrusion
at our communities. 

        All
of our stabilized operating communities, and all of the communities that we are currently developing, have been subjected to at least a Phase I or similar environmental
assessment, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling. These assessments, together with subsurface assessments conducted on some properties, have not
revealed, and we are not otherwise aware of, any environmental conditions that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition or results of operations. In
connection with our ownership, operation and development of communities, from time to time we undertake substantial remedial action in response to the presence of subsurface or other contaminants,
including contaminants in soil, groundwater and soil vapor beneath or affecting our buildings. In some cases, an indemnity exists upon which we may be able to rely if environmental liability arises
from the contamination or remediation costs exceed estimates. There can be no assurance, however, that all necessary remediation actions have been or will be undertaken at our properties or that we
will be indemnified, in full or at all, in the event that environmental liability arises. 

        Mold
growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a
period of time. Although the occurrence of mold at multifamily and other structures, and the need to remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years
that certain molds may in some instances lead to adverse health effects, including allergic or other reactions. To help limit mold growth, we educate residents about the importance of adequate
ventilation and request or require that they notify us when they see mold or excessive moisture. We have established procedures for promptly addressing and remediating mold or excessive moisture from
apartment homes when we
become aware of its presence regardless of whether we or the resident believe a health risk is presented. However, we cannot provide assurance that mold or excessive moisture will be detected and
remediated in a timely manner. If a significant mold problem arises at one of our communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the
affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities that may exceed any applicable insurance coverage. 


        Additionally,
we have occasionally been involved in developing, managing, leasing and operating various properties for third parties. Consequently, we may be considered to have been an
operator of such properties and, therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs or other potential costs which relate to the release or presence of hazardous or toxic substances or
petroleum products at such properties. We are not aware of any material environmental liabilities with respect to properties managed or developed by us or our predecessors for such third parties. 


        We
cannot assure you that:



•the environmental assessments described above have identified all potential environmental liabilities; 

22




 


<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•no prior owner created any material environmental condition not known to us or the consultants who prepared the
assessments; 
•no environmental liabilities have developed since the environmental assessments were prepared;  
•the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of our communities, such as the presence of underground storage tanks,
will not affect the environmental condition of our communities; 
•future uses or conditions, including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations, will
not result in the imposition of environmental liability; and 
•no environmental liabilities will arise at communities that we have sold for which we may have liability. 


 Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed.  

        Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers and other personnel. Our executive
officers make important capital allocation decisions or recommendations to our Board of Directors from among the opportunities identified by our regional offices. There is substantial competition for
qualified personnel in the real estate industry, and the loss of several of our key personnel could adversely affect the Company. 

 Breaches of our data security could materially harm our business and reputation.  

        We collect and retain certain personal information provided by our residents and employees. While we have implemented a variety of
security measures to protect the confidentiality of this information and periodically review and improve our security measures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized
access to this information. Any breach of our data security measures and loss of this information may result in legal liability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our
reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. 

 Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to stockholders.  

        If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at
regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax). In addition, unless we are entitled to relief under applicable
statutory provisions, we would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lose our qualification. The additional tax liability
resulting from the failure to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, we would no longer be required
to make distributions to our stockholders. Thus, our failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our
common stock. 

        We
believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT, and we intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we
are qualified as a REIT, or that we will remain qualified in the future. This is because qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our
control. In addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to
qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of this qualification. 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        Even
if we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property and on taxable income that we do not distribute to our shareholders.
In addition, we may hold certain assets and engage in certain activities that a REIT could not engage in directly through our taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs, and will be subject to federal income
tax at regular corporate rates on the income of those subsidiaries. 


        In
addition, the Archstone Acquisition presents a risk to our qualification as a REIT. Although we intend to structure our ownership and operations of the assets and entities acquired in
connection with the Archstone Acquisition, including our interest in joint ventures with Equity Residential, in a way that would allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax
purposes, no assurances can be given that we will be successful. 

        As
a result of the Archstone Acquisition and our ownership interests in the joint ventures with Equity Residential, we expect to acquire interests in certain assets and earn certain
items of income that are not, or may not be, qualifying assets or income for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests. Although we do not expect that the amounts of such non-qualifying
assets and income will jeopardize our REIT status, our review of the Archstone Acquisition is on-going, and we may discover additional non-qualifying assets or income. We may
not have the immediate right to change the terms of pre-existing arrangements that generate non-qualifying items or may have to incur significant penalties to terminate such
arrangements. To maintain our REIT qualification we may be required to hold significant assets acquired in connection with the Archstone Acquisition and some or all of our interests in the joint
ventures with Equity Residential through our TRSs. We also may hold certain Archstone Acquisition assets through our TRSs to avoid the risk of incurring the 100% prohibited transaction tax on any such
assets that we sell at a gain. Our domestic TRSs are subject to U.S. tax as regular corporations. Among the assets included in the Archstone Acquisition are subsidiaries intended to qualify as REITs.
To the extent we hold such subsidiaries outside of our TRSs, our REIT qualification could depend in part on such subsidiaries' compliance with the REIT requirements before our purchase. 

        The
assets of one of our joint ventures with Equity Residential are expected to include interests in a partnership controlled by Equity Residential. As a result of our ownership interest
in that joint venture, for purposes of our compliance with the REIT requirements we will be treated as owning our proportionate share of the assets of the Equity Residential partnership in which the
joint venture has an interest. Although we expect Equity Residential to operate that partnership in compliance with the REIT requirements, because we do not expect to control the Equity Residential
partnership in which the joint venture has an interest we cannot assure you that it will be operated in compliance with the REIT requirements, and failure to do so could potentially jeopardize our
REIT status. 

 The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company is limited by certain provisions of our charter and bylaws and by
Maryland law.  

        There are provisions in our charter and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of
our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests. These provisions include the following: 


        Our
charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights, including
voting rights, of any series of preferred stock issued. The Board of Directors may issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could allow the Board to issue one or more classes or
series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or a change in control. 

        To
maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer
individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. To maintain this qualification, and/or to address 

24




 

<A
HREF="#bg72601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

other
concerns about concentrations of ownership of our stock, our charter generally prohibits ownership (directly, indirectly by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, or beneficially as
defined in Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act) by any single stockholder of more than 9.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of any class or series of our stock. In general, under our
charter, pension plans and mutual funds may directly and beneficially own up to 15% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of stock. Under our charter, our Board of Directors may in its sole
discretion waive or modify the ownership limit for one or more persons, but is not required to do so even if such waiver would not affect our qualification as a REIT. Our Board of Directors modified
this ownership limit with respect to the common stock we expect to issue to Lehman for the Archstone Acquisition. These ownership limits may prevent or delay a change in control and, as a result,
could adversely affect our stockholders' ability to realize a premium for their shares of common stock. 

        As
a Maryland corporation, we are subject to the provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires
compliance with statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions may occur, which may delay or prevent offers to acquire us or increase the difficulty of completing any offers, even if they
are in our stockholders' best interests. In addition, other provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law permit the Board of Directors to make elections and to take actions without stockholder
approval (such as classifying our Board such that the entire Board is not up for re-election annually) that, if made or taken, could have the effect of discouraging or delaying a change in
control. 

25






<A
NAME="page_dg72601_1_26"> 









































Table of Contents 

<A
NAME="dg72601_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1b