ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS



Our operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences, including those
described below. This Item 1a includes forward-looking statements. You should refer to our
discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K.


Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability.



We intend to continue to develop and redevelop apartment home communities. These activities can
include long planning and entitlement timelines and can involve complex and costly activities,
including significant environmental remediation or construction work in high-density urban areas.
These activities may be exposed to the following risks:






     
    •
     
    we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining, necessary zoning,
occupancy, or other required governmental or third party permits and authorizations, which
could result in increased costs or the delay or abandonment of opportunities;



     

     
    •
     
    we may abandon opportunities that we have already begun to explore for a number of
reasons, including changes in local market conditions or increases in construction or
financing costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in
exploring those opportunities;



     

     
    •
     
    we may incur costs that exceed our original estimates due to increased material, labor
or other costs;



     

     
    •
     
    occupancy rates and rents at a community may fail to meet our expectations for a number
of reasons, including changes in market and economic conditions beyond our control and the
development by competitors of competing communities;



     

     
    •
     
    we may be unable to complete construction and lease up of a community on schedule,
resulting in increased construction and financing costs and a decrease in expected rental
revenues;



     

     
    •
     
    we may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at all, for the proposed
development of a community, which may cause us to delay or abandon an opportunity;



     

     
    •
     
    we may incur liabilities to third parties during the development process, for example,
in connection with managing existing improvements on the site prior to tenant terminations
and demolition (such as commercial space) or in connection with providing services to
third parties, such as the construction of shared infrastructure or other improvements;
and



     

     
    •
     
    we may incur liability if our communities are not constructed and operated in
compliance with the accessibility provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Acts, the
Fair Housing Act or other federal, state or local requirements. Noncompliance could
result in imposition of fines, an award of damages to private litigants, and a requirement
that we undertake structural modifications to remedy the noncompliance. We are currently
engaged in lawsuits alleging noncompliance with these statutes. See Item 3., “Legal
Proceedings.”





We project construction costs based on market conditions at the time we prepare our budgets, and
our projections include changes that we anticipate but cannot predict with certainty.
Construction costs may increase, particularly for labor and certain materials and, for some of our
Development Communities and Development Rights (as defined below), the total construction costs
may be higher than the original budget. Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs
projected to be incurred to develop or redevelop a community, determined in accordance with GAAP,
including:






     
    •
     
    land and/or property acquisition costs;



     

     
    •
     
    fees paid to secure air rights and/or tax abatements;



     

     
    •
     
    construction or reconstruction costs;



     

     
    •
     
    costs of environmental remediation;



     

     
    •
     
    real estate taxes;



     

     
    •
     
    capitalized interest;



     

     
    •
     
    loan fees;



     

     
    •
     
    permits;



     

     
    •
     
    professional fees;



     

     
    •
     
    allocated development or redevelopment overhead; and




8




 






     
    •
     
    other regulatory fees.





Costs to redevelop communities that have been acquired have, in some cases, exceeded our original
estimates and similar increases in costs may be experienced in the future. We cannot assure you
that market rents in effect at the time new development or redevelopment communities complete
lease-up will be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased construction or
reconstruction costs.


Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could hurt occupancy, rental rates,
operating expenses, and the overall market value of our assets, including joint ventures and Fund
investments.


Local conditions in our markets significantly affect occupancy, rental rates and the operating
performance of our communities. The risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets
include the following:






     
    •
     
    plant closings, industry slowdowns and other factors that adversely affect the local
economy;



     

     
    •
     
    an oversupply of, or a reduced demand for, apartment homes;



     

     
    •
     
    a decline in household formation or employment or lack of employment growth;



     

     
    •
     
    the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases;



     

     
    •
     
    rent control or rent stabilization laws, or other laws regulating housing, that could
prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and



     

     
    •
     
    economic conditions that could cause an increase in our operating expenses, such as
increases in property taxes, utilities, compensation of on-site associates and routine
maintenance.





Changes in applicable laws, or noncompliance with applicable laws, could adversely affect our
operations or expose us to liability.


We must develop, construct and operate our communities in compliance with numerous federal, state
and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one
another or be subject to limited judicial or regulatory
interpretations. These laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, landlord tenant laws and
other laws generally applicable to business operations. Noncompliance with laws could expose us
to liability.


Compliance with changes in (i) laws imposing remediation requirements and the potential liability
for environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other
conditions, (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws or (iii) other governmental rules and
regulations or enforcement policies affecting the development, use and operation of our
communities, including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes, may result in
lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated expenditures.


Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents.



Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. Because these leases
generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental
revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer
terms.


Competition could limit our ability to lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents.



Our apartment communities compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents, including
other rental apartments, condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent, as well
as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential
housing in a particular area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartment homes and to
increase or maintain rental rates.


9




 



Attractive investment opportunities may not be available, which could adversely affect our
profitability.


We expect that other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension funds, other
REITs and other well-capitalized investors, will compete with us to acquire existing properties
and to develop new properties. This competition could increase prices for properties of the type
we would likely pursue and adversely affect our profitability.


Capital and credit market conditions may continue to adversely affect our access to various
sources of capital and/or the cost of capital, which could impact our business activities,
dividends, earnings, and common stock price, among other things.


The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption, and this
has affected the amounts, sources and cost of capital available to us. For example, during 2008
we used secured property financing more than in the past, as the interest rate we incur for that
source of financing has remained relatively steady, and we may continue to rely more heavily on
secured financings. We are unable to predict whether, or to what extent or for how long, the
current capital market conditions will persist. We primarily use external financing to fund
construction and to refinance indebtedness as it matures. If sufficient sources of external
financing are not available to us on cost effective terms, we could be forced to further limit our
development and redevelopment activity and/or take other actions to fund our business activities
and repayment of debt, such as selling assets, reducing our cash dividend or paying out less than
100% of our taxable income. To the extent that we are able and/or choose to access capital at a
higher cost than we have experienced in recent years (reflected in higher interest rates for debt
financing or a lower stock price for equity financing) our earnings per share and cash flows could
be adversely affected. In addition, the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly
and/or decline in a high-interest rate or volatile economic environment. We believe that the
lenders under our unsecured credit line will fulfill their lending obligations thereunder, but if
economic conditions deteriorate further there can be no assurance that the ability of those
lenders to fulfill their obligations would not be adversely impacted.


Insufficient cash flow could affect our debt financing and create refinancing risk.



We are subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow
will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. In this regard, we note
that we are required to annually distribute dividends generally equal to at least 90% of our REIT
taxable income, computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain,
in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT, and this requirement limits the amount of our
cash flow available to meet required principal and interest payments. The principal outstanding
balance on a portion of our debt will not be fully amortized prior to its maturity. Although we
may be able to repay our debt by using our cash flows, we cannot assure you that we will have
sufficient cash flows available to make all required principal payments. Therefore, we may need to
refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may
not be able to refinance existing debt or that a refinancing will not be done on as favorable
terms, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
of operations.


Rising interest rates could increase interest costs and could affect the market price of our
common stock.


We currently have, and may in the future incur, variable interest rate debt. In addition, we
regularly seek access to both fixed and variable rate debt financing to repay maturing debt and to
finance our development and redevelopment activity. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, our
interest costs will also rise, unless we have made arrangements that hedge the risk of rising
interest rates. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers of our
common stock to demand a greater annual dividend yield, which could adversely affect the market
price of our common stock.


10




 



Bond financing and zoning compliance requirements could limit our income, restrict the use of
communities and cause favorable financing to become unavailable.


We have financed some of our apartment communities with obligations issued by local government
agencies because the interest paid to the holders of this debt is generally exempt from federal
income taxes and, therefore, the interest rate is generally more favorable to us. These
obligations are commonly referred to as “tax-exempt bonds” and generally must be secured by
communities. As a condition to obtaining tax-exempt financing, or on occasion as a condition to
obtaining favorable zoning in some jurisdictions, we will commit to make some of the apartments in
a community available to households whose income does not exceed certain thresholds (e.g., 50% or
80% of area median income), or who meet other qualifying tests. As of December 31, 2008,
approximately 6.9% of our apartment homes at current operating communities were under income
limitations such as these. These commitments, which may run without expiration or may expire
after a period of time (such as 15 or 20 years) may limit our ability to raise rents aggressively
and, in consequence, can also limit increases in the value of the communities subject to these
restrictions.


In addition, some of our tax-exempt bond financing documents require us to obtain a guarantee from
a financial institution of payment of the principal of, and interest on, the bonds. The guarantee
may take the form of a letter of credit, surety bond, guarantee agreement or other additional
collateral. If the financial institution defaults in its guarantee obligations, or if we are
unable to renew the applicable guarantee or otherwise post satisfactory collateral, a default will
occur under the applicable tax-exempt bonds and the community could be foreclosed upon.


Risks related to indebtedness.



We have a $1,000,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility with JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., and Wachovia Bank, N.A., serving together as syndication agent and as banks, Bank of
America, N.A., serving as administrative agent, swing lender, issuing bank and a bank, Morgan
Stanley Bank, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, serving
collectively as documentation agent and as banks, and a syndicate of other financial institutions,
serving as banks. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of
indebtedness that may be incurred. Accordingly, subject to compliance with outstanding debt
covenants, we could incur more debt, resulting in an increased risk of default on our obligations
and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition
and results of operations.


The mortgages on those of our properties subject to secured debt, our unsecured credit facility,
our unsecured term loan and the indentures under which a substantial portion of our debt was
issued contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations, as well as certain
financial and operating covenants including maintenance of certain financial ratios. Maintaining
compliance with these restrictions could limit our flexibility. A default in these requirements,
if uncured, could result in a requirement that we repay indebtedness, which could severely affect
our liquidity and increase our financing costs.


Failure to generate
sufficient revenue or other liquidity needs could limit cash flow available
for distributions to stockholders.


A decrease in rental revenue or other liquidity needs, including the repayment of indebtedness or
funding of our development activities, could have an adverse effect on our ability to pay
distributions to our stockholders. Significant expenditures associated with each community such as
debt service payments, if any, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs are generally
not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from a community.


The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be
impacted by economic and other considerations.


The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of the
Board of Directors and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital
requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code and other factors as the Board of Directors may consider relevant. The Board of
Directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time.


11




 



We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case stockholders may be
required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive.


We may in the future distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock, as we did
in the fourth quarter of 2008.
Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the
full amount of the dividend as  income to the extent of our current and accumulated
earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be
required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. If a U.S.
stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds
may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the
market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S.
stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in
respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a
significant number of our stockholders sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on
dividends, that may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock.


Debt financing may not be available and equity issuances could be dilutive to our stockholders.



Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt
and equity financing. Debt financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on favorable
terms. If we issue additional equity securities, the interests of existing stockholders could be
diluted.


Difficulty of selling apartment communities could limit flexibility.



Federal tax laws may limit our ability to earn a gain on the sale of a community (unless we own it
through a subsidiary which will incur a taxable gain upon sale) if we are found to have held,
acquired or developed the community primarily with the intent to resell the community, and this
limitation may affect our ability to sell communities without adversely affecting returns to our
stockholders. In addition, real estate in our markets can at times be difficult to sell quickly
at prices we find acceptable. These potential difficulties in selling real estate in our markets
may limit our ability to change or reduce the apartment communities in our portfolio promptly in
response to changes in economic or other conditions.


Acquisitions may not yield anticipated results.



Subject to the requirements related to Fund II, we may in the future acquire apartment communities
on a select basis. Our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the following
risks:






     
    •
     
    an acquired property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment;
and



     

     
    •
     
    our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may
prove inaccurate.





Failure to succeed in new markets or in activities other than the development, ownership and
operation of residential rental communities may have adverse consequences.


We may from time to time commence development activity or make acquisitions outside of our
existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. As noted above, we also own and lease
ancillary retail space when a retail component represents the best use of the space, as is often
the case with large urban in-fill developments. Also, as noted in Item 1., “Business,” above,
through a taxable REIT subsidiary that is a joint venture partner, we have a 50% economic interest
in a 64 town home for-sale development with a total estimated capital cost at completion of
$23,621,000, on a site adjacent to one of our communities. We may engage or have an interest in
for-sale activity in the future. Our historical experience in our existing markets in developing,
owning and operating rental communities does not ensure that we will be able to operate
successfully in new markets, should we choose to enter them, or that we will be successful in
other activities. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets,
including an inability to evaluate accurately local apartment market conditions; an inability to
obtain land for development or to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; an inability to
hire and retain key


12




 





personnel; and lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. We may be
unsuccessful in owning and leasing retail space at our communities or in developing real estate
with the intent to sell.


Risks involved in real estate activity through joint ventures.



Instead of acquiring or developing apartment communities directly, at times we invest as a partner
or a co-venturer. Partnership or joint venture investments involve risks, including the
possibility that our partner might become insolvent or otherwise refuse to make capital
contributions when due; that we may be responsible to our partner for indemnifiable losses; that
our partner might at any time have business goals which are inconsistent with ours; and that our
partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or
requests. Frequently, we and our partner may each have the right to trigger a buy-sell
arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner’s interest, at a
time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction.


Risks associated with an investment in and management of a discretionary investment fund.



We formed
the Fund which, through a wholly owned subsidiary, we manage as the general partner and
in which we have invested approximately $48,000,000 at December 31, 2008, representing an equity
interest of approximately 15%. This presents risks, including the following:






     
    •
     
    investors in the Fund may fail to make their capital contributions when due and, as a
result, the Fund may be unable to execute its investment objectives;



     

     
    •
     
    our subsidiary that is the general partner of the Fund is generally liable, under
partnership law, for the debts and obligations of the Fund, subject to certain exculpation
and indemnification rights pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of the Fund;



     

     
    •
     
    investors in the Fund holding a majority of the partnership interests may remove us as
the general partner without cause, subject to our right to receive an additional nine
months of management fees after such removal and our right to acquire one of the
properties then held by the Fund;



     

     
    •
     
    while we have broad discretion to manage the Fund and make investment decisions on
behalf of the Fund, the investors or an advisory committee comprised of representatives of
the investors must approve certain matters, and as a result we may be unable to cause the
Fund to make certain investments or implement certain decisions that we consider
beneficial; and



     

     
    •
     
    we may be liable and/or our status as a REIT may be
jeopardized if either the Fund, or the REIT through which a number of investors
have invested in the Fund and which we manage, fails to comply with various tax or other
regulatory matters.





We have
also formed Fund II which, through a wholly owned subsidiary, we manage as the general
partner and to which we have committed $150,000,000, representing a current equity interest of
approximately 45%. This presents risks, including the following:






     
    •
     
    investors in Fund II may fail to make their capital contributions when due and, as a
result, Fund II may be unable to execute its investment objectives;



     

     
    •
     
    our subsidiary that is the general partner of Fund II is generally liable, under
partnership law, for the debts and obligations of Fund II, subject to certain exculpation
and indemnification rights pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of Fund II;



     

     
    •
     
    investors in Fund II holding a majority of the partnership interests may remove us as
the general partner without cause, subject to our right to receive an additional nine
months of management fees after such removal and our right to acquire one of the
properties then held by Fund II;



     

     
    •
     
    while we have broad discretion to manage Fund II and make investment decisions on
behalf of Fund II, the investors or an advisory committee comprised of representatives of
the investors must approve certain matters, and as a result we may be unable to cause Fund
II to make certain investments or implement certain decisions that we consider beneficial;



     

     
    •
     
    we can develop communities but have been generally prohibited from making acquisitions
of apartment communities outside of Fund II, which is our exclusive investment vehicle
until September 2011 or when 90% of Fund II’s capital is invested, subject to certain
exceptions; and




13




 








     
    •
     
    we may be liable  and/or our status as a REIT may be
jeopardized  if either Fund II , or the Fund II REIT through which a number of
investors have invested in Fund II and which we manage, fails to comply with various tax
or other regulatory matters.





Risk of earthquake damage.



As further described in Item 2., “Communities — Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses,” many of
our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults. We
cannot assure you that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels.
In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in the
affected community, as well as anticipated future revenue from that community. We would also
continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the
community. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial
condition and results of operations.


Insurance coverage for earthquakes can be costly due to limited industry capacity. As a result,
we may experience shortages in desired coverage levels if market conditions are such that
insurance is not available or the cost of insurance makes it, in management’s view, economically
impractical.


A significant uninsured property or liability loss could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.


In addition to the earthquake insurance discussed above, we carry commercial general liability
insurance, property insurance and terrorism insurance with respect to our communities on terms we
consider commercially reasonable. There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses
arising from acts of war) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either
uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in management’s view, economically impractical. If
an uninsured property loss or a property loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, we could
lose our capital invested in a community, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such
community. We would also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other
obligations related to the community. If an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, we
would incur the cost of defense and settlement with, or court ordered damages to, that third
party. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could materially and adversely affect
our business and our financial condition and results of operations.


We may incur costs and increased expenses to repair property damage resulting from inclement
weather.


Particularly
in New England and the Midwest we are exposed to risks associated with inclement winter
weather, including increased costs for the removal of snow and ice as well as from delays in
construction. In addition, inclement weather could increase the need for maintenance and repair of
our communities.


We may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance.



Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and
ordinances, we may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and
remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our
properties (including in some cases natural substances such as methane and radon gas) and may be
held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for
property, personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs
incurred as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial and may
exceed any insurance coverage we have for such events. The presence of such substances, or the
failure to properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our ability to borrow
against, sell or rent the affected property.


In addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the
contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the
contamination.


The development, construction and operation of our communities are subject to regulations and
permitting under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which regulate
matters including wetlands protection, storm water runoff and wastewater discharge. Noncompliance
with such laws and regulations may


14




 





subject us to fines and penalties. We do not currently anticipate that we will incur any material
liabilities as a result of noncompliance with these laws.


Certain federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances govern the removal,
encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos containing materials (“ACMs”) when such materials are in
poor condition or in the event of renovation or demolition of a building. These laws and the
common law may impose liability for release of ACMs and may allow third parties to seek recovery
from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to ACMs.
We are not aware that any ACMs were used in the construction of the communities we developed.
ACMs were, however, used in the construction of a number of the communities that we acquired. We
implement an operations and maintenance program at each of the communities at which ACMs are
detected. We do not currently anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result
of the presence of ACMs at our communities.


We are aware that some of our communities have lead paint and have implemented an operations and
maintenance program at each of those communities. We do not currently anticipate that we will
incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of lead paint at our communities.


All of our stabilized operating communities, and all of the communities that we are currently
developing or redeveloping, have been subjected to at least a Phase I or similar environmental
assessment, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water
sampling. These assessments, together with subsurface assessments conducted on some properties,
have not revealed, and we are not otherwise aware of, any environmental conditions that we believe
would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition or results of
operations. In connection with our ownership, operation and development of communities, from time
to time we undertake substantial remedial action in response to the presence of subsurface or
other contaminants, including contaminants in soil, groundwater and soil vapor beneath or
affecting our buildings. In some cases, an indemnity exists upon which we may be able to rely if
environmental liability arises from the contamination or remediation costs exceed estimates.
There can be no assurance, however, that all necessary remediation actions have been or will be
undertaken at our properties or that we will be indemnified, in full or at all, in the event that
environmental liability arises.


Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials,
particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of
time. Although the occurrence of mold at multifamily and other structures, and the need to
remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years
that certain molds may in some instances lead to adverse health effects, including allergic or
other reactions. To help limit mold growth, we educate residents about the importance of adequate
ventilation and request or require that they notify us when they see mold or excessive moisture.
We have established procedures for promptly addressing and remediating mold or excessive moisture
from apartment homes when we become aware of its presence regardless of whether we or the resident
believe a health risk is presented. However, we cannot provide assurance that mold or excessive
moisture will be detected and remediated in a timely manner. If a significant mold problem arises
at one of our communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to
contain or remove the mold from the affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities
that may exceed any applicable insurance coverage.


Additionally, we have occasionally been involved in developing, managing, leasing and operating
various properties for third parties. Consequently, we may be considered to have been an operator
of such properties and, therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs or other
potential costs which relate to the release or presence of hazardous or toxic substances. We are
not aware of any material environmental liabilities with respect to properties managed or
developed by us or our predecessors for such third parties.


We cannot assure you that:






     
    •
     
    the environmental assessments described above have identified all potential
environmental liabilities;



     

     
    •
     
    no prior owner created any material environmental condition not known to us or the
consultants who prepared the assessments;




15




 








     
    •
     
    no environmental liabilities have developed since the environmental assessments were
prepared;



     

     
    •
     
    the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of our communities, such as the
presence of underground storage tanks, will not affect the environmental condition of our
communities;



     

     
    •
     
    future uses or conditions, including, without limitation, changes in applicable
environmental laws and regulations, will not result in the imposition of environmental
liability; and



     

     
    •
     
    no environmental liabilities will arise at communities that we have sold for which we
may have liability.





Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would
significantly reduce funds available for distribution to stockholders.


If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be subject to federal
income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative
minimum tax). In addition, unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions,
we would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years
following the year in which we lose our qualification. The additional tax liability resulting from
the failure to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds
available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, we would no longer be required to
make distributions to our stockholders. Thus, our failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair
our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our
common stock.


We believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT, and we intend to operate in a manner
that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we are
qualified as a REIT, or that we will remain qualified in the future. This is because qualification
as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and
involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within
our control. In addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or
court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with
respect to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax
consequences of this qualification.


Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our
income and property and on taxable income that we do not distribute to our shareholders. In
addition, we may engage in activities through taxable subsidiaries and will be subject to federal
income tax at regular corporate rates on the income of those subsidiaries.


The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our
company is limited by certain provisions of our charter and bylaws and by Maryland law.


There are provisions in our charter and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a
proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in
their best interests. These provisions include the following:


Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock
without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights, including voting rights,
of any series of preferred stock issued. The Board of Directors may issue preferred stock without
stockholder approval, which could allow the Board to issue one or more classes or series of
preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or a change in control.


To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in
value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer
individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. To maintain this qualification,
and to otherwise address concerns about concentrations of ownership of our stock, our charter
generally prohibits ownership (directly, indirectly by virtue of the attribution provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code, or beneficially as defined in Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act) by
any single stockholder of more than 9.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of any class or
series of our stock. In general, under our charter, pension plans and mutual funds may directly
and beneficially own up to 15% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of stock. Under
our charter, our Board of Directors may in its sole


16




 





discretion waive or modify the ownership limit
for one or more persons. These ownership limits may prevent or
delay a change in control and, as a result, could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to
realize a premium for their shares of common stock.


Our bylaws provide that the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of all of the shares
entitled to be cast in the election of directors is required to elect a director. In a contested
election, if no nominee receives the vote of holders of a majority of all of the shares entitled
to be cast, the incumbent directors would remain in office. This requirement may prevent or delay
a change in control and, as a result, could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to realize
a premium for their shares of common stock.


As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to the provisions of the Maryland General Corporation
Law. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with
statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions may occur, which may delay or prevent
offers to acquire us or increase the difficulty of completing any offers, even if they are in our
stockholders’ best interests. In addition, other provisions of the Maryland General Corporation
Law permit the Board of Directors to make elections and to take actions without stockholder
approval (such as classifying our Board such that the entire Board is not up for reelection
annually) that, if made or taken, could have the effect of discouraging or delaying a change in
control.





ITEM 1b