Item 1A:“Risk Factors,”
    Item 3: “Legal Proceedings” and Item 7:
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.
    These statements are indicated by words or phrases such as
    “anticipate,” “expect,” “outlook,”
    “foresee,” “believe,” “could,”
    “intend,” “will,” and similar words or
    phrases. All statements other than statements of historical fact
    could be deemed forward-looking, including, but not limited to,
    any projections of financial information; any statements about
    historical results that may suggest trends for our business; any
    statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of
    management for future operations; any statements of expectation
    or belief regarding future events, technology developments, our
    products, product sales, expenses, liquidity, cash flow, growth
    rates and restructuring efforts, or enforceability of our
    intellectual property rights and related litigation expenses;
    and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the
    foregoing. These forward-looking statements are based on current
    expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections of our or
    industry performance based on management’s judgment,
    beliefs, current trends and market conditions and involve risks
    and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ
    materially from those contained in the forward-looking
    statements. Accordingly, we caution you not to place undue
    reliance on these statements. For example, there can be no
    assurance that our product sales efforts, revenues or expenses
    will meet any expectations or follow any trend(s), or that our
    ability to compete effectively will be successful or yield
    anticipated results. For Avago, particular uncertainties that
    could affect future results include cyclicality in the
    semiconductor industry or in our end markets; the recent
    financial crisis and its impact on our business, results of
    operations, and financial condition; fluctuations in interest
    rates; our ability to generate cash sufficient to fund our
    research and development, capital expenditures and other
    business needs; our increased dependence on outsourced service
    providers for certain key business services and their ability to
    execute to our requirements; our dependence on contract
    manufacturing and outsourced supply chain; quarterly and annual
    fluctuations in operating results; loss of our significant
    customers; our ability to maintain tax concessions in certain
    jurisdictions; our ability to protect our intellectual property;
    our competitive performance and ability to continue achieving
    design wins with our customers; any expenses associated with
    resolving customer product and warranty claims; our ability to
    achieve the growth prospects and synergies expected from our
    acquisitions; delays and challenges associated with integrating
    acquired companies with our existing businesses; our ability to
    improve our cost structure through our manufacturing outsourcing
    program; and other events and trends on a national, regional and
    global scale, including those of a political, economic,
    business, competitive and regulatory nature. For a discussion of
    some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ
    materially from our forward-looking statements, see the
    discussion on risk factors that appears in Part I,
    Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and other risks and uncertainties detailed in this and our other
    reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
    or SEC. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking
    statements to reflect developments or information obtained after
    the date hereof and disclaim any obligation to do so.


 


    References in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    to “Avago”, “the Company”, “we”,
    “our”, or “us” refer to Avago Technologies
    Limited and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, unless
    otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires. Our
    fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to October 31. We
    refer to our fiscal years by the calendar year in which they
    end. For example, the fiscal year ended October 31, 2010 is
    referred to as “fiscal year 2010”.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS





 



    Overview


 


    We are a leading designer, developer and global supplier of a
    broad range of analog semiconductor devices with a focus on
    III-V based products. We differentiate ourselves through our
    high performance design and integration capabilities. III-V
    semiconductor materials have higher electrical conductivity,
    enabling faster speeds and tend to have better performance
    characteristics than conventional silicon in applications such
    as RF and optoelectronics. Our product portfolio is extensive
    and includes over 6,500 products that we sell into four primary
    target markets: wireless communications, wired infrastructure,
    industrial and automotive electronics, and consumer





    
    3



Table of Contents





    and computing peripherals. Applications for our products in
    these target markets include cellular phones, consumer
    appliances, data networking and telecommunications equipment,
    enterprise storage and servers, renewable energy and smart power
    grid applications, factory automation, displays, optical mice
    and printers.


 


    We have a nearly
    50-year
    history of innovation dating back to our origins within
    Hewlett-Packard Company. Over the years, we have assembled a
    large team of analog design engineers, and we maintain design
    and product development engineering resources around the world.
    Our locations include two design centers in the United States,
    five in Asia and four in Europe. We have developed an extensive
    portfolio of intellectual property that currently includes more
    than 5,000 U.S. and foreign patents and patent
    applications. Our history and market position enable us to
    strategically focus our research and development resources to
    address attractive target markets. We leverage our significant
    intellectual property portfolio to integrate multiple
    technologies and create component solutions that target growth
    opportunities. We design products that deliver high-performance
    and provide mission-critical functionality. In particular, we
    were a pioneer in commercializing vertical-cavity surface
    emitting laser, or VCSEL, fiber optic products and our
    VCSEL-based products have been widely adopted throughout the
    wired infrastructure industry. In addition, we were among the
    first to deliver commercial film bulk acoustic resonator, or
    FBAR, filters for code division multiple access, or CDMA,
    technology and we believe we maintain a significant market share
    of personal communication service, or PCS, duplexers within the
    CDMA market. In addition, our FBAR filters offer technological
    advantages over competing filters in certain other radio bands,
    such as GPS and 3G. In optoelectronics, we are a market leader
    in submarkets such as optocouplers, fiber optic transceivers,
    optical finger navigation sensors found in mobile phones and
    optical computer mouse sensors.


 


    We have a diversified and well-established customer base of
    approximately 40,000 end customers, located throughout the
    world, which we serve through our multi-channel sales and
    fulfillment system. We have established strong relationships
    with leading original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers
    across multiple target markets. Typically, our major customer
    relationships have been in place multiple years and we have
    supplied multiple products during that time period. Our close
    customer relationships have often been built as a result of
    years of collaborative product development which has enabled us
    to build our intellectual property portfolio and develop
    critical expertise regarding our customer’s requirements,
    including substantial system level knowledge. This collaboration
    has provided us with key insights into our customers and has
    enabled us to be more efficient and productive and to better
    serve our target markets and customers. We distribute most of
    our products through our broad distribution network, and we are
    a significant supplier to two of the largest global electronic
    components distributors, Avnet, Inc. and Arrow Electronics, Inc.
    We also have a direct sales force focused on supporting large
    OEMs.


 


    We focus on maintaining an efficient global supply chain and a
    variable, low-cost operating model. Accordingly, we have
    outsourced a majority of our manufacturing operations utilizing
    third-party foundry and assembly and test capabilities, as well
    as most of our corporate infrastructure functions. We aim to
    minimize capital expenditures by focusing our internal
    manufacturing capacity on products utilizing our innovative
    materials and processes to protect our intellectual property and
    to develop the technology for manufacturing, while outsourcing
    standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS,
    processes. We also have over 35 years of operating history
    in Asia, where approximately 60% of our employees are located
    and where we produce and source the majority of our products.
    Our presence in Asia places us in close proximity to many of our
    customers’ manufacturing facilities and at the center of
    worldwide electronics manufacturing.


 



    Markets
    and Products


 


    We focus on leveraging our design capabilities to develop
    products for target markets where we believe our innovation and
    reputation will allow us to earn attractive margins. In each of
    our target markets, we have multiple product families that
    primarily provide OEMs with component or subsystem products. Our
    product portfolio ranges from simple discrete devices to complex
    sub-systems that include multiple device types and incorporate
    firmware for interface between digital systems. In some cases,
    our products include mechanical hardware that interfaces with
    optoelectronic or capacitive sensors. We intend to expand our
    product offerings to address existing and adjacent market
    opportunities, and plan to selectively target attractive
    segments within large established markets. We target markets
    that require high quality and the integrated performance
    characteristics of our products. For the fiscal year ended
    October 31, 2010, wireless communications contributed 38%,
    wired infrastructure contributed 24%,





    
    4



Table of Contents





    industrial and automotive electronics contributed 29% and
    consumer and computing peripherals contributed 9%, of our net
    revenue, respectively.


 


    Wireless Communications.  We support the
    wireless industry with a broad variety of radio frequency, or
    RF, semiconductor devices, including monolithic microwave
    integrated circuit filters and duplexers using our proprietary
    FBAR technology, front end modules that incorporate multiple die
    into multi-function RF devices, diodes and discrete transistors.
    Our expertise in amplifier design, FBAR technology and module
    integration capability enables us to offer industry-leading
    efficiency in RF transmitter applications. Our proprietary
    gallium arsenide, or GaAs, processes are critical to the
    production of power amplifier, or PA, and low noise amplifier
    products. Our expertise in Human Interface Design has led to the
    Optical Finger Navigation, or OFN, device which replaces a
    mechanical trackball on certain high-end mobile phones. In
    addition to RF devices and OFN, we provide a variety of
    optoelectronic sensors for mobile handset applications. We also
    supply light emitting diodes, or LEDs, for camera-phone flashes
    and for backlighting applications in mobile handset keypads, as
    well as sensors for backlighting control.


 


    Wired Infrastructure.  In the storage and
    Ethernet networking markets, we supply transceivers that receive
    and transmit information along optical fibers. We provide a
    range of product bandwidth options for customers, including
    options ranging from 125 megabyte data, or MBd, Fast
    Ethernet transmitters and receivers to 10 Gigabit transceivers.
    We supply parallel optic transceivers with as many as 12
    parallel channels for high performance core routing and server
    applications. For enterprise networking and server input/output,
    or I/O, applications, we also supply high speed
    serializer/deserializer, or SerDes, products integrated into
    application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs.


 


    Industrial and Automotive Electronics.  We
    provide a broad variety of products for the general industrial,
    automotive and consumer appliance markets. We offer optical
    isolators, or optocouplers, which provide electrical insulation
    and signal isolation for signaling systems that are susceptible
    to electrical noise or interference. Optocouplers are used in a
    diverse set of applications, including industrial motors,
    automotive systems including those used in hybrid engines, power
    generation and distribution systems, switching power supplies,
    motion sensors, telecommunications equipment, consumer
    appliances, computers and office equipment, plasma displays, and
    military electronics. For industrial motors and robotic motion
    control, we supply optical encoders, as well as integrated
    circuits, or ICs, for the controller and decoder functions. For
    electronic signs and signals, we supply LED assemblies that
    offer high brightness and stable light output over thousands of
    hours, enabling us to support traffic signals, large commercial
    signs and other displays. For industrial networking, we provide
    Fast Ethernet transceivers using plastic optical fiber that
    enable quick and interoperable networking and factory automation.


 


    Consumer and Computing Peripherals.  We
    manufacture motion control encoders that control the paper feed
    and print head movement in printers and other office automation
    products. We were an early developer of image sensors for
    optical mouse applications, using LEDs and CMOS image sensors to
    create a subsystem that can detect motion over an arbitrary
    desktop surface. We are a leading supplier of image sensors for
    optical mice today, and have launched a new line of laser-based
    mouse products with improved precision. Displays, especially in
    notebook computer applications, use our products for LED
    backlighting and our sensors to control display brightness based
    on ambient light conditions.




    
    5



Table of Contents





    The table below presents the major product families, major
    applications and major end customers in our four primary target
    markets.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Target Market



 



    Major Product Families



 



    Major Applications



 



    Major End Customers




 






    Wireless Communications



 



    •   RF amplifiers



 


    •   Voice and data communications


 


    •   LG Electronics Inc.




 


 



    •   RF filters



 


    •   Camera phone


 


    •   Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.




 


 



    •   RF front end modules (FEMs)



 


    •   Keypad and display backlighting


 


    •   Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.




 


 



    •   Ambient light sensors



 


    •   Backlighting control


 


 




 


 



    •   LEDs



 


    •   Base stations


 


 




 


 



    •   Low noise amplifiers



 


 


 


 




 


 



    •   mm-wave mixers



 


 


 


 




 


 



    •   Optical Finger Navigation (OFN)



 


 


 


 




 


 



    •   Diodes



 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Wired Infrastructure



 



    •   Fiber optic transceivers



 


    •   Data communications


 


    •   Brocade Communications




 


 



    •   Serializer/deserializer (SerDes)



 


    •   Storage area networking


 


         Systems, Inc.




 


 


        ASICs


 



    •   Servers



 


    •   Cisco Systems Inc.




 


 


 


 


 


 



    •   Hewlett-Packard Company





 


 


 


 


 


 



    •   International Business





 


 


 


 


 


 


         Machines  Corp.




 


 


 


 


 


 



    •   Juniper Networks Inc.





 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Industrial and Automotive



 



    •   Fiber optic transceivers



 


    •   In-car infotainment


 


    •   ABB Ltd.





    Electronics



 



    •   LEDs



 


    •   Displays


 


    •   Schneider Electric




 


 



    •   Motion control encoders and



 


    •   Lighting


 


    •   Siemens AG




 


 


         subsystems


 



    •   Factory automation



 


 




 


 



    •   Optocouplers



 


    •   Motor controls


 


 




 


 


 


 



    •   Power supplies



 


 




 


 


 


 



    •   Renewable clean energy



 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Consumer and Computing



 



    •   Optical mouse sensors



 


    •   Optical mice


 


    •   Hewlett-Packard Company





    Peripherals



 



    •   Motion control encoders and



 


    •   Printers


 


    •   Logitech International S.A.




 


 


         subsystems


 



    •   Optical disk drives



 


    •   Primax Electronics Ltd.








 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We are committed to continuous investment in product
    development, with a focus on rapidly introducing new,
    proprietary products. Many of our products have grown out of our
    own research and development efforts, and have given us
    competitive advantages in certain target markets due to
    performance differentiation. We focus our research and
    development efforts on the development of innovative,
    sustainable and higher value product platforms. We leverage our
    design capabilities in markets where we believe our innovation
    and reputation will allow us to earn attractive margins by
    developing high value-add products.


 


    We intend to continue to build on our history of innovation, and
    our intellectual property portfolio, design expertise and
    system-level knowledge, to create more integrated solutions. We
    plan to continue investing in product development to drive
    growth in our business. We also invest in process development
    and maintain fabrication capabilities in order to optimize
    processes for devices that are manufactured internally. Our
    field application engineers, or FAEs, and design engineers are
    located near many of our customers around the world, enabling us
    to support our customers in each stage of their product
    development cycle, from early stages of production design
    through volume manufacturing and future growth. By collaborating
    with our customers, we have opportunities to develop high value
    added, customized products for them that leverage our existing
    technologies. Research and development expenses were
    $280 million, $245 million and $265 million for
    the years ended October 31, 2010, November 1, 2009 and
    November 2, 2008, respectively. We anticipate that we will
    continue to make significant research and development
    expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with
    a continuous flow of innovative and sustainable product
    platforms. As of October 31, 2010, we had approximately
    1,200 employees dedicated to research and development at
    multiple locations around the world.


 


    We also have research and development alliances with partners
    and ongoing technology sharing relationships with our principal
    contract manufacturers. We anticipate that we will continue to
    employ research and development alliances to maximize the impact
    of our internal research and development investment.




    
    6



Table of Contents






    Customers,
    Sales, Marketing and Distribution


 


    We have a diversified and historically stable customer base. In
    the year ended October 31, 2010, no customer accounted for
    10% or more of our net revenue, and our top 10 customers, which
    included five distributors, collectively accounted for 55% of
    our net revenue.


 


    We sell our products through a network of distributors and our
    direct sales force globally. Our customers require timely
    delivery often to multiple locations around the world. We have
    strategically developed distributor relationships to serve tens
    of thousands of customers. Our direct sales force is focused on
    supporting our large OEM customers. Additionally, our extensive
    network of FAEs enhances our customer reach and our visibility
    into new product opportunities. Within North America, we also
    complement our direct sales force with a network of
    manufacturing sales representative companies to cover our
    emerging OEM customers in order to ensure these customers
    receive the proper level of attention and support. Our main
    global distributors are Avnet, Inc., and Arrow Electronics, Inc.
    complemented by a number of specialty regional distributors with
    customer relationships based on their respective product ranges.


 


    As of October 31, 2010, our sales and marketing
    organization consisted of approximately 500 employees, many
    of whom have responsibility for emerging accounts, for large,
    global accounts, or for our distributors. Our sales force has
    specialized product and service knowledge that enables us to
    sell specific offerings at key levels throughout a
    customer’s organization.


 


    As part of our global reach, we have 11 sales offices located in
    nine countries, with a significant presence in Asia, which is a
    key center of the worldwide electronics supply chain. Many of
    our customers design products in North America or Europe that
    are then manufactured in Asia. We maintain dedicated regional
    customer support call centers, where we address customer issues
    and handle logistics and other order fulfillment requirements.
    We are well-positioned to support our customers throughout the
    design, technology transfer and manufacturing stages across all
    geographies.


 



    Operations


 


    A majority of our manufacturing operations are outsourced and we
    utilize external foundries to fabricate our semiconductors,
    including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd., or
    TSMC and WIN Semiconductors Corp. For certain of our product
    families, substantially all of our revenue is derived from
    semiconductors fabricated by external foundries, including our
    high speed SerDes ICs, LEDs, and LED-based displays. We also use
    third-party contract manufacturers for a significant majority of
    our assembly and test operations, including Amertron
    Incorporated, SAE Magnetics (HK) Ltd, and the Hana
    Microelectronics Public Company Ltd. group of companies. We
    maintain our internal fabrication facilities for products
    utilizing our innovative materials and processes to protect our
    intellectual property and to develop the technology for
    manufacturing, and we outsource standard CMOS processes.
    Examples of internally fabricated semiconductors include RF GaAs
    amplifiers and VCSEL-based lasers for fiber optic
    communications. The majority of our internal III-V semiconductor
    wafer fabrication is done in the United States and Singapore. As
    of October 31, 2010, approximately 1,500 manufacturing
    employees were devoted to internal fabrication operations as
    well as outsourced activities. For selected customers, we
    maintain finished goods inventory near or at customer
    manufacturing sites to support their
    just-in-time
    production.


 



    Materials
    and Suppliers


 


    Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of
    semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies and
    raw materials. We purchase materials from hundreds of suppliers
    on a global basis. These supply relationships are generally
    conducted on a purchase order basis. While we have not
    experienced any difficulty in obtaining the materials used in
    the conduct of our business and we believe that no single
    supplier is material, some of the parts are not readily
    available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or
    the length of time necessary for re-design or qualification. Our
    long-term relationships with our suppliers allow us to
    proactively manage our technology development and product
    discontinuance plans, and to monitor our suppliers’
    financial health. Some suppliers may nonetheless extend their
    lead times, limit supplies, increase prices or cease to produce
    necessary parts for our products. If these are unique
    components, we may not be able to find a substitute quickly, or





    
    7



Table of Contents





    at all. To address the potential disruption in our supply chain,
    we use a number of techniques, including qualifying multiple
    sources of supply where practicable, redesign of products for
    alternative components and purchase of incremental inventory for
    supply buffer.


 



    Competition


 


    The global semiconductor market is highly competitive. While no
    company competes with us in all of our target markets, our
    competitors range from large, international companies offering a
    wide range of products to smaller companies specializing in
    narrow markets. We compete with integrated device manufacturers,
    or IDMs, and fabless semiconductor companies as well as the
    internal resources of large, integrated OEMs. The competitive
    landscape is changing as a result of a trend toward
    consolidation within the industry, as some of our competitors
    have merged with or been acquired by other competitors while
    others have begun collaborating with each other. We expect this
    consolidation trend to continue. We expect competition in the
    markets in which we participate to continue to increase as
    existing competitors improve or expand their product offerings
    and as new companies enter the market. Additionally, our ability
    to compete effectively depends on a number of factors,
    including: quality, technical performance, price, product
    features, product system compatibility, system-level design
    capability, engineering expertise, responsiveness to customers,
    new product innovation, product availability, delivery timing
    and reliability, and customer sales and technical support.


 


    In the wireless communications target market, we provide RF
    amplifiers, filters, optical finger navigation sensors, modules
    and LEDs for mobile phones. Our primary competitors for this
    target market are Anadigics, Inc., Hittite Microwave
    Corporation, RF Micro Devices, Inc., Skyworks Solutions, Inc.
    and TriQuint Semiconductor, Inc. We compete based on our
    expertise in amplifier design, FBAR technology and module
    integration. We also compete against a number of smaller, niche
    wireless players based on our proprietary design expertise,
    broad product portfolio, proprietary material processes and
    integration expertise.


 


    In the wired infrastructure target market, we provide fiber
    optic transceivers and SerDes ASICs for high-speed data
    communications and server applications. Our primary competitors
    for this target market are Finisar Corporation, International
    Business Machines Corp. Microelectronics Division, LSI
    Corporation, ST Microelectronics N.V. and Texas Instruments
    Incorporated. We compete based on the strength of our high speed
    proprietary design expertise, our customer relationships,
    proprietary process technology and broad product portfolio.


 


    In the industrial and automotive electronics target market, we
    provide fiber optic transceivers for communication networks,
    LEDs for displays, motion control encoders and subsystems and
    optocouplers for factory automation and motor controls. Our
    primary competitors for this target market are Analog Devices,
    Inc., Heidenhain Corporation, NEC Electronics Corporation and
    Toshiba Corporation. We compete based on our design expertise,
    broad product portfolio, reputation for quality products and
    large customer base.


 


    In the consumer and computing peripherals target market, we
    provide optical mouse image sensors for optical mice and motion
    control encoders and subsystems for printers and optical disk
    drives. Our primary competitors for this target market are
    Pixart Imaging Inc. and Sharp Corporation. In these
    applications, we compete based on our long history of innovation
    and market leadership, along with our design expertise.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our
    intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a
    combination of intellectual property rights, including patents,
    mask works, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets
    and similar intellectual property, as well as customary
    contractual protections with our customers, suppliers, employees
    and consultants, and through security measures to protect our
    trade secrets. We believe our current product expertise, key
    engineering talent and intellectual property portfolio provide
    us with a strong platform from which to develop application
    specific products in key target markets.


 


    We are the successor to the Semiconductor Products Group of
    Agilent Technologies, Inc., which we acquired on
    December 1, 2005 in a transaction that we refer to as the
    SPG Acquisition. We acquired ownership and license rights to a
    portfolio of patents and patent applications, as well as certain
    registered trademarks and service marks for discrete product
    offerings, from Agilent in the SPG Acquisition. We have
    continued to have issued to us, and to file





    
    8



Table of Contents





    for, additional United States and foreign patents since the SPG
    Acquisition. As of October 31, 2010, we had approximately
    2,200 U.S. and 1,200 foreign patents and approximately 500
    U.S. and 1,100 foreign pending patent applications. Our
    research and development efforts are presently resulting in
    approximately 150 new patent applications per year relating to a
    wide range of RF and optoelectronic components and associated
    applications. The expiration dates of our patents range from
    2011 to 2030, with a small number of patents expiring in the
    near future, none of which are expected to be material to our
    intellectual property portfolio.


 


    We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications
    will result in the issuance of patents or to the extent that the
    examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Since
    the SPG Acquisition, we have focused our patent application
    program to a greater extent on those inventions and improvements
    that we believe are likely to be incorporated into our products
    as contrasted with more basic research.


 


    Much of our intellectual property is the subject of
    cross-licenses to other companies that have been granted by
    Agilent, or if originally derived from Hewlett-Packard Company,
    by Hewlett-Packard Company. In addition, we license third-party
    technologies that are incorporated into some elements of our
    design activities, products and manufacturing processes.
    Historically, licenses of the third-party technologies used by
    us have been available to us on acceptable terms.


 


    The semiconductor industry is characterized by the existence of
    a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade
    secrets and by the vigorous pursuit, protection and enforcement
    of intellectual property rights. Many of our customer agreements
    require us to indemnify our customers for third-party
    intellectual property infringement claims, which has in the past
    required and may in the future require that we defend those
    claims, and might also require that we pay damages in the case
    of adverse rulings. Claims of this sort could harm our
    relationships with our customers and might deter future
    customers from doing business with us. With respect to any
    intellectual property rights claims against us or our customers
    or distributors, we may be required to cease manufacture of the
    infringing product, pay damages, expend resources to develop
    non-infringing technology, seek a license which may not be
    available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or
    relinquish patents or other intellectual property rights.


 



    Employees


 


    As of October 31, 2010, we had approximately
    3,500 employees worldwide. Approximately 1,200 were
    dedicated to research and development, 1,500 to manufacturing,
    500 to sales and marketing and 300 to general and administrative
    functions. By geography, approximately 60% of our employees are
    located in Asia, 33% in North America and 7% in Europe. The
    substantial majority of our employees are not party to a
    collective bargaining agreement. However, approximately 400 of
    our 1,000 employees in Singapore, none of whom are in
    management or supervisory positions, are subject to a collective
    bargaining agreement with United Workers of Electronic and
    Electrical Industries that expires on June 30, 2013. In
    addition, all of our employees in Italy and some employees in
    Japan are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. In Italy
    we are also subject to national collective agreements between
    unions and employer associations. Such Italian national
    collective agreements are compulsory for both the employees and
    the employer. In addition, in Germany we are subject to
    collective agreements with the works councils at our sites,
    which apply to German employees other than managing directors
    and managers with similar authority. We believe we have a good
    working relationship with our employees and we have never
    experienced an interruption of business as a result of labor
    disputes.


 



    Environmental
    and Other Regulation


 


    Our research and development and manufacturing operations
    involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under
    international, federal, state and local laws governing health
    and safety and the environment. These regulations include
    limitations on discharge of pollutants to air, water, and soil;
    remediation requirements; product chemical content limitations;
    manufacturing chemical use and handling restrictions; pollution
    control requirements; waste minimization considerations; and
    treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and
    hazardous wastes. We are also subject to regulation by the
    United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and
    similar health and safety laws in other jurisdictions.




    
    9



Table of Contents





    We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities
    comply in all material respects with applicable environmental
    laws and worker health and safety laws; however, the risk of
    environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and
    there can be no assurance that the application of environmental
    and health and safety laws to our business will not require us
    to incur significant expenditures.


 


    We are also regulated under a number of international, federal,
    state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and
    product content requirements, including legislation enacted in
    the European Union and China, among a growing number of
    jurisdictions, which have placed greater restrictions on the use
    of lead, among other chemicals, in electronic products, which
    affects materials composition and semiconductor packaging. These
    laws are becoming more stringent and may in the future cause us
    to incur significant expenditures.


 



    Backlog


 


    Our sales are generally made pursuant to short-term purchase
    orders. These purchase orders are made without deposits and may
    be, and often are, rescheduled, canceled or modified on
    relatively short notice, and in most cases without substantial
    penalty. Therefore, we believe that purchase orders or backlog
    are not a reliable indicator of future sales.


 



    Seasonality


 


    We are affected by seasonal trends in the semiconductor and
    related industries. We typically experience sequentially lower
    revenues in the first fiscal half of the year. Our revenue in
    the second half of the fiscal year is typically higher than our
    revenue in the first half of the fiscal year due to seasonality
    in two of our target markets, consumer and computing peripherals
    and wireless communications. These target markets typically
    experience seasonality due to the “back to school” and
    calendar year end holiday selling seasons.


 



    Financial
    Information about Geographic Areas


 


    For information on the geographic concentration of our net
    revenues and long-lived assets, please see Note 15.
    “Segment Information,” of our consolidated financial
    statements.


 



    Other
    Information


 


    Avago Technologies Limited was incorporated under the laws of
    the Republic of Singapore in August 2005. Our Singapore company
    registration number is 200510713C. The address of our registered
    office and our principal executive offices is 1 Yishun Avenue 7,
    Singapore 768923, and our telephone number is +65-6755-7888. We
    are the successor to the Semiconductor Products Group of
    Agilent, which we acquired on December 1, 2005. Our
    ordinary shares are listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market
    under the trading symbol “AVGO”.


 


    We are subject to the information and periodic reporting
    requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange
    Act, and, in accordance therewith, file periodic reports, proxy
    statements and other information with the SEC. Such periodic
    reports, proxy statements and other information is available for
    inspection and copying at the SEC’s Public Reference Room
    at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549 or may be
    obtained by calling the SEC at 1–800–SEC–0330. In
    addition, the SEC maintains a website at
    http://www.sec.gov
    that contains reports, proxy statements and other information
    regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We
    maintain a website at www.avagotech.com. You may access our
    annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    proxy statements and other reports (and amendments thereto)
    filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
    the Exchange Act with the SEC free of charge at the
    “Investors — SEC Filings” section of our
    website, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material
    is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The
    reference to our website address does not constitute
    incorporation by reference of the information contained on or
    accessible through our website.




    
    10



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Our business, operations and financial results are subject to
    various risks and uncertainties, including those described
    below, that could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading
    price of our ordinary shares. The following important factors,
    among others, could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements
    made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press
    releases, communications with investors and oral statements.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 



    We
    operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is
    subject to significant downturns.


 


    The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is
    characterized by constant and rapid technological change and
    price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life
    cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in
    which they are used) and wide fluctuations in product supply and
    demand. From time to time, these and other factors, together
    with changes in general economic conditions, cause significant
    upturns and downturns in the industry in general and in our
    business in particular. For example, the global semiconductor
    market experienced substantial declines in 2001 and 2009, in
    each case beyond the declines experienced in the typical cycles
    experienced by the semiconductor industry, due in large part to
    deteriorating global economic conditions during those periods.
    Periods of industry downturns, including the recent economic
    downturn, have been characterized by diminished demand for
    end-user products, high inventory levels, underutilization of
    manufacturing capacity, changes in revenue mix and accelerated
    erosion of average selling prices, resulting in, an adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. We expect our business to continue to be subject to
    cyclical downturns even as overall economic conditions improve.


 



    Our
    operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and
    annual fluctuations.


 


    Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past
    and are likely to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations
    may occur on a quarterly and annual basis and are due to a
    number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These
    factors include, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and
    sold by our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant
    orders by customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in the levels of component inventories held by our
    customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the gain or loss of significant customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    market acceptance of our products and our customers’
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and
    technologies on a timely basis;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing and extent of product development costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    new product announcements and introductions by us or our
    competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    incurrence of research and development and related new product
    expenditures;




 



     
        • 

    
    seasonality or cyclical fluctuations in our markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    currency fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    utilization of our internal manufacturing facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in manufacturing yields;




 



     
        • 

    
    significant warranty claims, including those not covered by our
    suppliers or our insurers;




 



     
        • 

    
    availability and cost of raw materials from our suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in our product mix or customer mix;







    
    11



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    intellectual property disputes;




 



     
        • 

    
    loss of key personnel or the shortage of available skilled
    workers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including
    decreases in average selling prices of our products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in our tax incentive arrangements or structure, which
    may adversely affect our net tax expense in any quarter in which
    such an event occurs.





 


    The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as
    well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our
    quarterly or annual operating results. In addition, a
    significant amount of our operating expenses are relatively
    fixed in nature due to our significant sales, research and
    development and internal manufacturing overhead costs. Any
    failure to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a
    revenue shortfall could magnify the adverse impact of such
    revenue shortfall on our results of operations. As a result, we
    believe that
    quarter-to-quarter
    comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be
    meaningful or a reliable indicator of our future performance. If
    our operating results in one or more future quarters fail to
    meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, an
    immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our
    ordinary shares may occur.


 



    The
    recent economic downturn and financial crisis has negatively
    affected our business and continuing poor economic conditions
    may negatively affect our future business, results of
    operations, and financial condition.


 


    The recent global economic downturn and financial crisis led to
    slower economic activity, unemployment, concerns about inflation
    and energy costs, decreased business and consumer confidence,
    reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business
    conditions and lower levels of liquidity in many financial
    markets. The global recession also led to reduced customer
    spending in the semiconductor market and in our target markets
    during 2009, made it difficult for our customers, our vendors
    and us to accurately forecast and plan future business
    activities, and caused U.S. and foreign businesses to slow
    spending on our products. It has also caused consumers to reduce
    spending on many products our customers make, such as personal
    computers, mobile phone and flat screen televisions. While many
    areas of the global economy are improving, including portions of
    the semiconductor industry, a slowdown in the economic recovery
    or worsening global economic conditions, including as a result
    of conditions in Europe, may cause additional reductions in
    customer spending and could lead to the insolvency of key
    suppliers resulting in product delays, customer insolvencies,
    and also counterparty failures that may negatively impact our
    treasury operations. Our business, financial condition and
    result of operations were negatively affected in prior periods
    as a result of the recent downturn, and, if the global economic
    situation worsens, could be materially adversely affected in
    future periods.


 



    If we
    do not adapt to technological changes in the semiconductor
    industry, we could lose customers or market share.


 


    The semiconductor industry is subject to constant and rapid
    changes in technology, frequent new product introductions, short
    product life cycles, rapid product obsolescence and evolving
    technical standards. Technological developments may reduce the
    competitiveness of our products and require unbudgeted upgrades
    that could be expensive and time consuming to implement. Our
    products could become obsolete sooner than we expect because of
    faster than anticipated, or unanticipated, changes in one or
    more of the technologies related to our products. Furthermore,
    we continually evaluate expenditures for research and
    development and must choose among alternative technologies based
    on our expectations of future market growth and other factors.
    We may be unable to develop and introduce new or enhanced
    products that satisfy customer requirements and achieve market
    acceptance in a timely manner or at all, the technologies where
    we have focused our research and development expenditures may
    not become commercially successful, and we may be unable to
    anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. We
    also may not be able to respond successfully to new product
    announcements and introductions by competitors. If we fail to
    adapt successfully to technological changes or fail to obtain
    access to important new technologies, we may be unable to retain
    customers, attract new customers or sell new products to our
    existing customers.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    Dependence
    on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our
    supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products
    to market and damage our reputation.


 


    We operate a primarily outsourced manufacturing business model
    that principally utilizes third-party foundry and assembly and
    test capabilities. As a result, we are highly reliant on
    third-party foundry wafer fabrication and assembly and test
    capacity, including sole sourcing for many components or
    products. For certain of our product families, substantially all
    of our revenue from those products is derived from
    semiconductors fabricated by external foundries such as Taiwan
    Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. and WIN Semiconductors
    Corp. We also use third-party contract manufacturers for a
    significant majority of our assembly and test operations,
    including Amertron Incorporated, SAE Magnetics (HK) Ltd, and the
    Hana Microelectronics Public Company Ltd. group of companies.
    The ability and willingness of our contract manufacturers to
    perform is largely outside of our control. If one or more of our
    contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fails to perform its
    obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality
    levels, our ability to bring products to market and our
    reputation could suffer. If one of our suppliers, particularly a
    single- source supplier, ceases to, or is unable to, manufacture
    such a component or supply is otherwise constrained, we may be
    forced to re-engineer a product or may fail to meet customer
    demand. In addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also
    extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to
    capacity constraints or other factors. For example, in the event
    that manufacturing capacity is reduced or eliminated at one or
    more facilities, including as a response by contract
    manufacturers to cycles in the semiconductor industry,
    manufacturing could be disrupted, we could have difficulties
    fulfilling our customer orders and our net revenue could
    decline. In addition, if these third parties on whom we are
    highly reliant fail to deliver quality products and components
    on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties
    fulfilling our customer orders and our net revenue could
    decline. In such events, our business, financial condition and
    results of operations would be adversely affected.


 


    To the extent we rely on third-party manufacturing
    relationships, we face the following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    inability of our manufacturers to develop manufacturing methods
    appropriate for our products and their unwillingness to devote
    adequate capacity to produce our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    product and manufacturing costs that are higher than anticipated;




 



     
        • 

    
    reduced control over product reliability and delivery schedules;




 



     
        • 

    
    more complicated supply chains; and




 



     
        • 

    
    time, expense and uncertainty in identifying and qualifying
    additional or replacement manufacturers.





 


    Much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries, and
    as a result may additionally be subject to geopolitical
    uncertainty. See “— Our business, financial
    condition and results of operations could be adversely affected
    by the political and economic conditions of the countries in
    which we conduct business and other factors related to our
    international operations.”


 



    A
    prolonged disruption of our manufacturing facilities could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
    and results of operations.


 


    Although we operate using a primarily outsourced manufacturing
    business model, we do rely on the manufacturing facilities we
    own, in particular our fabrication facilities in
    Fort Collins, Colorado and Singapore. We maintain our
    internal fabrication facilities for products utilizing our
    innovative materials and processes, to protect our intellectual
    property and to develop the technology for manufacturing. A
    prolonged disruption or material malfunction of, interruption in
    or the loss of operations at one or more of our production
    facilities, especially our Fort Collins and Singapore
    facilities, or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or
    more of these facilities, would limit our capacity to meet
    customer demands and delay new product development until a
    replacement facility and equipment, if necessary, were found.
    The lease on our primary internal fabrication facility in
    Singapore expires in 2015. If we are unable to renew this lease
    on satisfactory terms, we would be required to locate suitable
    replacement premises, with the goal of ensuring a smooth
    transition between facilities on or prior to the expiration of
    our current lease. However, the replacement of this, or any
    other, manufacturing facility could take an extended amount of
    time and significant expenditures on our part before
    manufacturing operations could restart.





    
    13



Table of Contents





    While we would seek to minimize any disruption to our operations
    and supply chain associated with any such changes in
    manufacturing facilities, we may experience delays and
    significant costs resulting from these steps, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    Unless
    we and our suppliers continuously improve manufacturing
    efficiency and quality, our financial performance could be
    adversely affected.


 


    Manufacturing semiconductors involves highly complex processes
    that require advanced equipment. We and our suppliers, as well
    as our competitors, continuously modify these processes in an
    effort to improve yields and product performance. Defects or
    other difficulties in the manufacturing process can reduce
    yields and increase costs. Our manufacturing efficiency will be
    an important factor in our future financial performance, and we
    may be unable to maintain or increase our manufacturing
    efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. For products
    that we outsource manufacturing, our product yields and
    performance will be subject to the manufacturing efficiencies of
    our third-party suppliers.


 


    From time to time, we and our suppliers have experienced
    difficulty in beginning production at new facilities,
    transferring production to other facilities, achieving and
    maintaining a high level of process quality and effecting
    transitions to new manufacturing processes, all of which have
    caused us to suffer delays in product deliveries or reduced
    yields. We and our suppliers may experience manufacturing
    problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product
    delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other
    things, capacity constraints, construction delays, transferring
    production to other facilities (as we may be required to do with
    our manufacturing facility in Singapore, in or prior to 2015),
    upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our
    process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of
    future revenues. Our results of operations could be adversely
    affected by any increase in costs related to increases in
    production capacity if revenues do not increase proportionately.


 



    Winning
    business is subject to lengthy, competitive selection processes
    that require us to incur significant expense. Even if we begin a
    product design, a customer may decide to cancel or change its
    product plans, which could cause us to generate no revenues from
    a product and adversely affect our results of
    operations.


 


    We are focused on winning competitive bid selection processes,
    known as “design wins,” to develop semiconductors for
    use in our customers’ products. These selection processes
    are typically lengthy and can require us to incur significant
    design and development expenditures and dedicate scarce
    engineering resources in pursuit of a single customer
    opportunity. We may not win the competitive selection process
    and may never generate any revenue despite incurring significant
    design and development expenditures. These risks are exacerbated
    by the fact that many of our products will likely have very
    short life cycles. Failure to obtain a design win sometimes
    prevents us from offering an entire generation of a product.
    This can result in lost revenues and could weaken our position
    in future competitive selection processes.


 


    After winning a product design, we may experience delays in
    generating revenue from our products as a result of the lengthy
    development cycle typically required. In addition, a delay or
    cancellation of a customer’s plans could materially and
    adversely affect our financial results, as we may have incurred
    significant expense in the design process and generated no
    revenue. Finally, our customers’ failure to successfully
    market and sell their products could reduce demand for our
    products and materially adversely affect our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    We may
    be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual
    property rights or demands that we license third-party
    technology, which could result in significant expense and loss
    of our intellectual property rights.


 


    The semiconductor industry is characterized by companies holding
    large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade
    secrets and by the vigorous pursuit, protection and enforcement
    of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third
    parties assert against us and our customers and distributors
    their patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other
    intellectual property rights to technologies that are important
    to our business. For example, we are currently involved in a
    dispute with TriQuint Semiconductor, Inc., or TriQuint, in
    which, among





    
    14



Table of Contents





    other things, TriQuint is seeking a judgment that one of our
    patents relating to RF filter technology used in our wireless
    products is invalid and, if valid, that TriQuint’s products
    do not infringe that patent, and is claiming that certain of our
    wireless products infringe three of its patents. See
    Part II, Item 1. “Legal Proceedings” above
    for additional information regarding this dispute.


 


    Claims that our products or processes infringe or misappropriate
    these rights, regardless of their merit or resolution, are
    frequently costly and divert the efforts and attention of our
    management and technical personnel. In addition, many of our
    customer agreements and in some cases our asset sale agreements
    require us to indemnify our customers or purchasers for
    third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which
    have required and may in the future require that we defend those
    claims, and might require that we pay damages in the case of
    adverse rulings. Claims of this sort could also harm our
    relationships with our customers and might deter future
    customers from doing business with us. We do not know whether we
    will prevail in such proceedings given the complex technical
    issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property
    litigation. If any pending or future proceedings result in an
    adverse outcome, we could be required to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products,
    processes or technology;




 



     
        • 

    
    pay substantial damages for past, present and future use of the
    infringing technology;




 



     
        • 

    
    expend significant resources to develop non-infringing
    technology;




 



     
        • 

    
    license technology from the third-party claiming infringement,
    which license may not be available on commercially reasonable
    terms, or at all;




 



     
        • 

    
    enter into cross-licenses with our competitors, which could
    weaken our overall intellectual property portfolio;




 



     
        • 

    
    indemnify customers or distributors;




 



     
        • 

    
    pay substantial damages to our customers or end users to
    discontinue use or replace infringing technology with
    non-infringing technology; or




 



     
        • 

    
    relinquish intellectual property rights associated with one or
    more of our patent claims, if such claims are held invalid or
    otherwise unenforceable.





 


    Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    We
    utilize a significant amount of intellectual property in our
    business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property,
    our business could be adversely affected.


 


    Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our
    intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a
    combination of intellectual property rights, including patents,
    copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and similar
    intellectual property, as well as customary contractual
    protections with our customers, suppliers, employees and
    consultants, and through security measures to protect our trade
    secrets. We may be required to spend significant resources to
    monitor and protect our intellectual property rights and there
    can be no assurance that, even with significant expenditures, we
    will be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We are
    unable to predict that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    any of the patents and pending patent applications, trademarks,
    copyrights, trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual
    property rights that we presently employ in our business will
    not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, or, in
    the case of third-party intellectual property rights, licensed
    or
    sub-licensed
    to us, be licensed to others




 



     
        • 

    
    our intellectual property rights will provide competitive
    advantages to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    rights previously granted by third parties to intellectual
    property rights licensed or assigned to us, including portfolio
    cross-licenses, will not hamper our ability to assert our
    intellectual property rights against potential competitors or
    hinder the settlement of currently pending or future disputes;







    
    15



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    any of our pending or future patent, trademark or copyright
    applications will be issued or have the coverage originally
    sought; or




 



     
        • 

    
    our intellectual property rights will be enforced in certain
    jurisdictions where competition may be intense or where legal
    protection may be weak.





 


    In addition, our competitors or others may develop products or
    technologies that are similar or superior to our products or
    technologies, duplicate our products or technologies or design
    around our protected technologies. Effective patent, trademark,
    copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or more
    limited in one or more relevant jurisdictions, relative to those
    protections available in the United States, or may not be
    applied for in one or more relevant jurisdictions. Moreover,
    from time to time we pursue litigation to assert our
    intellectual property rights, including, in some cases, against
    third parties with whom we have ongoing relationships, such as
    customers and suppliers, and third parties may pursue litigation
    against us. For example, we have filed suit against ST
    Microelectronics NV., or ST Microelectronics, in which, we are
    seeking a judgment that they have infringed five of our patents
    relating to optical navigation devices and they have
    counter-filed against us alleging that certain of our optical
    navigation devices infringe two of their patents, among other
    things. See Part I, Item 3. “Legal
    Proceedings” below for additional information regarding
    this dispute. An adverse decision in such types of legal action
    could limit our ability to assert our intellectual property
    rights and limit the value of our technology, including the loss
    of opportunities to license our technology to others or to
    collect royalty payments based upon successful protection and
    assertion of our intellectual property against others. In
    addition, such legal actions or adverse decisions could
    otherwise negatively impact our business, financial condition
    and results of operations.


 


    From time to time we may need to obtain additional intellectual
    property licenses or renew existing license agreements. We are
    unable to predict whether these license agreements can be
    obtained or renewed on acceptable terms or at all.


 



    Competition
    in our industry could prevent us from growing our revenue and
    from raising prices to offset increases in costs.


 


    The global semiconductor market is highly competitive. We
    compete in different target markets to various degrees on the
    basis of, among other things, quality, technical performance,
    price, product features, product system compatibility,
    system-level design capability, engineering expertise,
    responsiveness to customers, new product innovation, product
    availability, delivery timing and reliability, and customer
    sales and technical support. Current and prospective customers
    for our products evaluate our capabilities against the merits of
    our direct competitors. Some of our competitors are well
    established, have a more extensive product portfolio, have
    substantially greater market share and manufacturing, financial,
    research and development and marketing resources to pursue
    development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and
    distribution of their products. In addition, many of our
    competitors have longer independent operating histories, greater
    presence in key markets, more comprehensive patent protection
    and greater name recognition. We compete with integrated device
    manufacturers, or IDMs, and fabless semiconductor companies as
    well as the internal resources of large, integrated OEMs. Our
    competitors range from large, international companies offering a
    wide range of semiconductor products to smaller companies
    specializing in narrow markets. We expect competition in the
    markets in which we participate to continue to increase as
    existing competitors improve or expand their product offerings.
    In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with
    us may introduce competing products in the future. Because our
    products are often building block semiconductors providing
    functions that in some cases can be integrated into more complex
    integrated circuits, or ICs, we also face competition from
    manufacturers of ICs, as well as customers that develop their
    own IC products. The competitive landscape is changing as a
    result of an increasing trend of consolidation within the
    industry, as some of our competitors have merged with or been
    acquired by other competitors while others have begun
    collaborating with each other. We expect this consolidation
    trend to continue.


 


    Our ability to compete successfully depends on elements both
    within and outside of our control, including industry and
    general economic trends. During past periods of downturns in our
    industry, competition in the markets in which we operate
    intensified as manufacturers of semiconductors reduced prices in
    order to combat production overcapacity and high inventory
    levels. The actions of our competitors, particularly in the area
    of pricing, can have a substantial adverse impact on our
    revenues, and potentially on revenues in specific industry end
    markets. In periods





    
    16



Table of Contents





    where the semiconductor industry experiences significant
    declines, manufacturers in financial difficulties or in
    bankruptcy may implement pricing structures designed to ensure
    short-term market share and near-term survival, rather than
    securing long-term viability. In addition, many of our
    competitors have substantially greater financial and other
    resources than us with which to withstand adverse economic or
    market conditions and any associated pricing actions of other
    market participants in the future.


 



    We may
    be unable to make the substantial and productive research and
    development investments which are required to remain competitive
    in our business.


 


    The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in
    research and development in order to develop and bring to market
    new and enhanced technologies and products. In order to remain
    competitive, we anticipate that we will need to maintain or
    increase our levels of research and development expenditures,
    and we expect research and development expenses to increase in
    absolute dollars for the foreseeable future, due to the
    increasing complexity and number of products we plan to develop.
    We do not know whether we will have sufficient resources to
    maintain or increase the level of investment in research and
    development required to remain competitive. In addition, we
    cannot assure you that the technologies where we have focused
    our research and development expenditures will become
    commercially successful. If we are required to invest
    significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research
    and development efforts without a corresponding increase in
    revenue, our operating results could decline.


 



    Our
    business would be adversely affected by the departure of
    existing members of our senior management team or if our senior
    management team is unable to effectively implement our
    strategy.


 


    Our success depends, in large part, on the continued
    contributions of our senior management team, in particular, the
    services of Mr. Hock E. Tan, our President and Chief
    Executive Officer. None of our senior management is bound by
    written employment contracts to remain with us for a specified
    period. In addition, we do not currently maintain key person
    life insurance covering our senior management. The loss of any
    of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our
    business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market
    conditions in which we operate.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel,
    especially our design and technical personnel, we may not be
    able to execute our business strategy effectively.


 


    Our future success depends on our ability to retain, attract and
    motivate qualified personnel, including our management, sales
    and marketing, legal and finance, and especially our design and
    technical personnel. We do not know whether we will be able to
    retain all of these employees as we continue to pursue our
    business strategy. We have historically encountered difficulties
    in hiring and retaining qualified engineers because there is a
    limited pool of engineers with expertise in analog and
    optoelectronic semiconductor design. Competition for such
    personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry. As the
    source of our technological and product innovations, our design
    and technical personnel represent a significant asset. The loss
    of the services of key employees, especially our key design and
    technical personnel, or our inability to retain, attract and
    motivate qualified design and technical personnel, could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    We are
    subject to warranty claims, product recalls and product
    liability.


 


    We are currently, and from time to time may be, subject to
    warranty or product liability claims that have lead and may in
    the future lead to significant expenses as we compensate
    affected customers for costs incurred related to product quality
    issues. For example, in the second quarter of 2009 we identified
    a product quality issue with a particular component that we took
    steps to correct, including notifying our customers and offering
    to replace such components. We are continuing our discussions
    with affected customers regarding this issue, and have
    compensated or otherwise rectified the issue with many of those
    customers. As at October 31, 2010, we have recorded
    $17 million in charges associated with this issue,
    including $11 million in fiscal year 2010, and may incur
    additional charges as we continue to work with our customers to
    resolve the matter.




    
    17



Table of Contents





    Although we maintain product liability insurance, such insurance
    is subject to significant deductibles and there is no guarantee
    that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect
    against all such claims, or we may elect to self-insure with
    respect to certain matters. We may incur costs and expenses in
    the event of any recall of a customer’s product containing
    one of our devices. The process of identifying a recalled
    product in devices that have been widely distributed may be
    lengthy and require significant resources, and we may incur
    significant replacement costs, contract damage claims from our
    customers and reputational harm. Costs or payments made in
    connection with warranty and product liability claims and
    product recalls could materially affect our financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    The
    complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or
    expenses or undetected defects or bugs, which could adversely
    affect the market acceptance of new products, damage our
    reputation with current or prospective customers, and materially
    and adversely affect our operating costs.


 


    Highly complex products such as the products that we offer, may
    contain defects and bugs when they are first introduced or as
    new versions are released, or their release may be delayed due
    to unforeseen difficulties during product development. We have
    in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, these
    defects, bugs and delays. If any of our products contain defects
    or bugs, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems,
    we may not be able to successfully design workarounds.
    Consequently, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be
    reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and
    adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers,
    attract new customers, and our financial results. In addition,
    these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales to our
    customers. To resolve these problems, we may have to invest
    significant capital and other resources. Although our products
    are tested by our suppliers, our customers and ourselves, it is
    possible that our new products will contain defects or bugs. If
    any of these problems are not found until after we have
    commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be
    required to incur additional development costs and product
    recall, repair or replacement costs. These problems may also
    result in claims against us by our customers or others. For
    example, if a delay in the manufacture and delivery of our
    products causes the delay of a customer’s product delivery,
    we may be required, under the terms of our agreement with that
    customer, to compensate the customer for the adverse effects of
    such delays. In addition, these problems may divert our
    technical and other resources from other development efforts,
    and we would likely lose, or experience a delay in, market
    acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could
    lose credibility with our current and prospective customers. As
    a result, our financial results could be materially and
    adversely affected.


 



    Failure
    to adjust our supply chain volume due to changing market
    conditions or failure to accurately estimate our customers’
    demand could adversely affect our results of
    operations.


 


    We make significant decisions, including determining the levels
    of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules,
    levels of reliance on contract manufacturing and outsourcing,
    personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our
    estimates of customer requirements. The short-term nature of
    commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of
    rapid changes in demand for their products reduces our ability
    to accurately estimate future customer requirements. Our results
    of operations could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our
    supply chain volume to address market fluctuations, including
    those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the markets
    in which we operate. The sale of our products is dependent, to a
    large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to
    seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their products.
    For example, the consumer electronics market is particularly
    volatile and is subject to seasonality related to the holiday
    selling season, making demand difficult to anticipate. On
    occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production,
    which can challenge our resources and reduce margins. During a
    market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient
    supplies or components, or secure sufficient contract
    manufacturing capacity, to meet increasing product demand, which
    could harm our reputation, prevent us from taking advantage of
    opportunities and reduce revenue growth. In addition, some parts
    are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their
    unique design or the length of time necessary for design work.


 


    In order to secure components for the production of products, we
    may continue to enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments
    with vendors or make advance payments to suppliers, which could
    reduce our ability to adjust our inventory or expense levels to
    declining market demands. Prior commitments of this type have
    resulted in





    
    18



Table of Contents





    an excess of parts when demand for our products has decreased.
    Downturns in the semiconductor industry have in the past caused,
    and may in the future cause, our customers to reduce
    significantly the amount of products ordered from us. If demand
    for our products is less than we expect, we may experience
    excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur
    additional charges. Conversely, if OEMs order more of our
    products in any particular quarter than are ultimately required
    to satisfy end customer demand, inventories at these OEMs may
    grow in such quarter, which could adversely affect our product
    revenues in a subsequent quarter as such OEMs would likely
    +reduce future orders until their inventory levels realign with
    end customer demand. In addition, because certain of our sales,
    research and development and internal manufacturing overhead
    expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand
    may decrease our gross margins and operating income.


 



    We are
    subject to currency exchange risks that could adversely affect
    our operations.


 


    Although a majority of our revenue and operating expenses is
    denominated in U.S. dollars, and we prepare our financial
    statements in U.S. dollars in accordance with generally
    accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, a portion of our
    revenue and operating expenses is in foreign currencies. As a
    result, we are subject to currency risks that could adversely
    affect our operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    risks resulting from changes in currency exchange rates and the
    implementation of exchange controls; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations
    in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in
    other countries.





 


    Changes in exchange rates will result in increases or decreases
    in our costs and earnings, and may also affect the book value of
    our assets located outside the United States and the amount of
    our equity. Although we seek to minimize our currency exposure
    by engaging in hedging transactions where we deem it
    appropriate, we do not know whether our efforts will be
    successful.


 



    Our
    operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the
    markets into which we sell our products decline.


 


    Visibility into our markets is limited. As was the case in the
    recent economic downturn, any decline in our customers’
    markets would likely result in a reduction in demand for our
    products and make it more difficult to collect on outstanding
    amounts due to us. For example, if the Asian market does not
    continue to grow as anticipated or if the semiconductor market
    declines, our results of operations will likely suffer. In such
    an environment, pricing pressures could intensify and, if we
    were unable to respond quickly, could significantly reduce our
    gross margins. To the extent we cannot offset recessionary
    periods or periods of reduced growth that may occur in these
    markets through increased market share or otherwise, our net
    revenue may decline and our business, financial condition and
    results of operations may suffer. Pricing pressures and
    competition are especially intense in semiconductor-related
    industries, which could prevent achievement of our long-term
    financial goals and could require us to implement additional
    cost-cutting measures. Furthermore, industry growth rates may
    not be as forecasted, which could result in us spending on
    process and product development well ahead of market
    requirements, which in turn could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    The
    demands or loss of one or more of our significant customers may
    adversely affect our business.


 


    Some of our customers are material to our business and results
    of operations. During fiscal year 2010, no customer accounted
    for 10% or more of our net revenue, and our top 10 customers,
    which included five distributors, collectively accounted for 55%
    of our net revenue. During fiscal year 2009, no customer
    accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue, and our top 10
    customers, which included four distributors, collectively
    accounted for 60% of our net revenue. We believe our top
    customers’ purchasing power has given them the ability to
    make greater demands on their suppliers, including us. We expect
    this trend to continue, which we expect will result in our
    results of operations becoming increasingly sensitive to
    deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse
    developments related to, one or more of our significant
    customers. Although we believe that our relationships with our
    major customers are good, we generally do not have long-term
    contracts with any of them, which is typical of our industry. As
    a result, although our customers provide indications of their
    product needs and purchases on an annual basis, they generally
    purchase our products on a weekly or daily basis and the
    relationship, as well as





    
    19



Table of Contents





    particular orders, can be terminated at any time. The loss of
    any of our major customers, or any substantial reduction in
    sales to any of these customers, could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    We
    generally do not have any long-term supply contracts with our
    contract manufacturers or materials suppliers and may not be
    able to obtain the products or raw materials required for our
    business, which could have a material adverse affect on our
    business.


 


    We either obtain the products we need for our business from
    third-party contract manufacturers or we obtain the materials we
    need for our products from suppliers, some of which are our
    single source suppliers for these materials. We purchase a
    significant portion of our semiconductor materials and finished
    goods from a few suppliers and contract manufacturers. For
    fiscal year 2010, we purchased 54% of the materials for our
    manufacturing processes from eight suppliers. For fiscal year
    2009, we purchased 52% of the materials for our manufacturing
    processes from eight suppliers. Substantially all of our
    purchases are on a purchase order basis, and we have not
    generally entered into long-term contracts with our contract
    manufacturers or suppliers. In the event that these purchase
    orders or relationships with suppliers are terminated, we cannot
    obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials at reasonable
    prices, the quality of the material deteriorates, we fail to
    satisfy our customers’ requirements or we are not able to
    pass on higher materials or energy costs to our customers, our
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    adversely impacted.


 


    Our manufacturing processes rely on many materials, including
    silicon and GaAs wafers, copper lead frames, mold compound,
    ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. From time to
    time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or
    increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors.
    Although we believe that our current supplies of materials are
    adequate, shortages could occur in various essential materials
    due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the
    industry.


 


    We use third-party contractor manufacturers for most of our
    manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and
    module assembly and test services. Our agreements with these
    manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs,
    commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts and
    may require other commitments in the early stages of the
    relationship. Our operations could be adversely affected in the
    event that these contractual relationships were disrupted or
    terminated, the cost of such services increased significantly,
    the quality of the services provided deteriorated, our forecasts
    proved to be materially incorrect or capacity is consumed by our
    competitors.


 



    We
    rely on third parties to provide corporate infrastructure
    services necessary for the operation of our business. Any
    failure of one or more of our vendors to provide these services
    could have a material adverse effect on our
    business.


 


    We rely on third-party vendors to provide critical corporate
    infrastructure services, including, among other things, certain
    services related to accounting, billing, human resources,
    information technology, or IT, network development and network
    monitoring. We depend on these vendors to ensure that our
    corporate infrastructure will consistently meet our business
    requirements. The ability of these third-party vendors to
    successfully provide reliable, high quality services is subject
    to technical and operational uncertainties that are beyond our
    control. While we may be entitled to damages if our vendors fail
    to perform under their agreements with us, our agreements with
    these vendors limit the amount of damages we may receive. In
    addition, we do not know whether we will be able to collect on
    any award of damages or that any such damages would be
    sufficient to cover the actual costs we would incur as a result
    of any vendor’s failure to perform under its agreement with
    us. We are currently implementing a phased migration of our data
    centers in Singapore from one managed location to another,
    refreshing critical hardware and implementing centralized
    disaster recovery procedures. Any difficulties in the migration
    of certain enterprise-critical applications during this process
    may result in short periods of downtime for these applications,
    which may adversely affect our ability to accept customer
    orders, manufacture or ship products or invoice customers during
    those periods. Any failure of our corporate infrastructure could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations. Upon expiration or
    termination of any of our agreements with third-party vendors,
    we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a
    timely manner or on terms





    
    20



Table of Contents





    and conditions, including service levels and cost, that are
    favorable to us and a transition from one vendor to another
    vendor could subject us to operational delays and inefficiencies
    until the transition is complete.


 



    Our
    gross margin is dependent on a number of factors, including our
    product mix and level of capacity utilization.


 


    Our gross margin is highly dependent on product mix, with
    proprietary products and products sold into our industrial and
    automotive target market typically providing higher gross margin
    than other products. A shift in sales mix away from our higher
    margin products could adversely affect our future gross margin
    percentages. In addition, semiconductor manufacturing requires
    significant capital investment, leading to high fixed costs,
    including depreciation expense. Although we outsource a
    significant portion of our manufacturing activities, we do
    retain some semiconductor fabrication facilities. If we are
    unable to utilize our owned fabrication facilities at a high
    level, the fixed costs associated with these facilities will not
    be fully absorbed, resulting in higher average unit costs and
    lower gross margins. In the past, we have experienced periods
    where our gross margins declined due to, among other things,
    reduced factory utilization resulting from reduced customer
    demand, reduced selling prices and a change in product mix
    towards lower margin devices. Increased competition and the
    existence of product alternatives, more complex engineering
    requirements, lower demand and other factors may lead to further
    price erosion, lower revenues and lower margins for us in the
    future.


 



    Our
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of
    the countries in which we conduct business and other factors
    related to our international operations.


 


    We sell our products throughout the world. In addition, as at
    October 31, 2010, approximately 67% of our employees are
    located outside of the United States. Multiple factors relating
    to our international operations and to particular countries in
    which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations. These
    factors include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in political, regulatory, legal or economic conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictive governmental actions, such as restrictions on the
    transfer or repatriation of funds and foreign investments and
    trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas
    and customs duties and tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    disruptions of capital and trading markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in import or export licensing requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    transportation delays;




 



     
        • 

    
    civil disturbances or political instability;




 



     
        • 

    
    geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or
    military coups;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in labor standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our
    intellectual property;




 



     
        • 

    
    nationalization of businesses and expropriation of assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in tax laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    currency fluctuations, which may result in our products becoming
    too expensive for foreign customers or foreign-sourced materials
    and services becoming more expensive for us; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in obtaining distribution and support.





 


    A majority of our products are produced and sourced in Asia,
    including in China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan
    and Thailand. Any conflict or uncertainty in these countries,
    including due to political or civil unrest or public health or
    safety concerns could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations. In
    addition, if the government of any country in which our products
    are manufactured or





    
    21



Table of Contents





    sold sets technical standards for products manufactured in or
    imported into their country that are not widely shared, it may
    lead certain of our customers to suspend imports of their
    products into that country, require manufacturers in that
    country to manufacture products with different technical
    standards and disrupt cross-border manufacturing relationships
    which, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 


    In addition, our subsidiaries may require future equity-related
    financing, and any capital contributions to certain of our
    subsidiaries may require the approval of the relevant
    authorities in the jurisdiction in which the subsidiary is
    incorporated. The approvals are required from the investment
    commissions or similar agency of the particular jurisdiction and
    relate to any initial or additional equity investment by foreign
    entities in local corporations. Our failure to obtain the
    required approvals and our resulting inability to provide such
    equity-related financing or capital contributions could have an
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    If we
    suffer loss or significant damage to our factories, facilities
    or distribution system due to catastrophe, our operations could
    be seriously harmed.


 


    Our factories, facilities and distribution system, and those of
    our contract manufacturers, are subject to risk of catastrophic
    loss due to fire, flood, or other natural or man-made disasters.
    The majority of our facilities and those of our contract
    manufacturers are located in the Pacific Rim region, a region
    with above average seismic and severe weather activity. In
    addition, our research and development personnel are
    concentrated in a few locations, primarily Korea, Malaysia,
    Singapore, Fort Collins, Colorado and San Jose,
    California, with the expertise of the personnel at each such
    location tending to be focused on one or two specific areas. Any
    catastrophic loss or significant damage to any of these
    facilities would likely disrupt our operations, delay
    production, shipments and revenue and result in significant
    expenses to repair or replace the facility, and in some
    instances could significantly curtail our research and
    development efforts in a particular product area or target
    market. In particular, any catastrophic loss at our
    Fort Collins, Colorado and Singapore facilities would
    materially and adversely affect our business.


 



    If the
    tax incentive or tax holiday arrangements we have negotiated in
    Singapore and other jurisdictions change or cease to be in
    effect or applicable, or if our assumptions and interpretations
    regarding tax laws and incentive or holiday arrangements prove
    to be incorrect, the amount of corporate income taxes we have to
    pay could significantly increase.


 


    We have structured our operations to maximize the benefit from
    various tax incentives and tax holidays extended to us in
    various jurisdictions to encourage investment or employment. For
    example, we have obtained several tax incentives from the
    Singapore Economic Development Board, an agency of the
    Government of Singapore, which provide that certain classes of
    income we earn in Singapore are subject to tax holidays or
    reduced rates of Singapore income tax. Each such tax incentive
    is separate and distinct from the others, and may be granted,
    withheld, extended, modified, truncated, complied with or
    terminated independently without any effect on the other
    incentives. In order to retain these tax benefits in Singapore,
    we must meet certain operating conditions specific to each
    incentive relating to, among other things, maintenance of a
    treasury function, a corporate headquarters function, specified
    intellectual property activities and specified manufacturing
    activities in Singapore. Some of these operating conditions are
    subject to phase-in periods through 2015. The Singapore tax
    incentives are presently scheduled to expire at various dates
    generally between 2014 and 2025, subject in certain cases to
    potential extensions. Absent such tax incentives, the corporate
    income tax rate in Singapore that would otherwise apply to us
    would be 17% commencing from the 2010 year of assessment.
    For the fiscal years ended November 2, 2008,
    November 1, 2009 and October 31, 2010, the effect of
    all these tax incentives, in the aggregate, was to reduce the
    overall provision for income taxes from what it otherwise would
    have been in such year by approximately $24 million,
    $17 million and $63 million, respectively. The tax
    incentives that we have negotiated in other jurisdictions are
    also subject to our compliance with various operating and other
    conditions. If we cannot or elect not to comply with the
    operating conditions included in any particular tax incentive,
    we will lose the related tax benefits and could be required to
    refund material tax benefits previously realized by us with
    respect to that incentive and, depending on the incentive at
    issue, could likely be required to modify our operational
    structure and tax strategy.





    
    22



Table of Contents





    Any such modified structure or strategy may not be as beneficial
    to us from an income tax expense or operational perspective as
    the benefits provided under the present tax concession
    arrangements.


 


    Our interpretations and conclusions regarding the tax incentives
    are not binding on any taxing authority, and if our assumptions
    about tax and other laws are incorrect or if these tax
    incentives are substantially modified or rescinded we could
    suffer material adverse tax and other financial consequences,
    which would increase our expenses, reduce our profitability and
    adversely affect our cash flows. In addition, taxable income in
    any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational
    practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax
    authorities as being on an arm’s length basis. Due to
    inconsistencies in application of the arm’s length standard
    among taxing authorities, as well as lack of adequate
    treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax
    authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our
    income tax expense.


 



    The
    enactment of legislation implementing changes in U.S. taxation
    of international business activities or the adoption of other
    tax reform policies could materially impact our financial
    position and results of operations.


 


    Tax bills are introduced from time to time to reform
    U.S. taxation of international business activities.
    Depending on the final form of legislation enacted, if any,
    these consequences may be significant for us due to the large
    scale of our international business activities. If any of these
    proposals are enacted into legislation, they could have material
    adverse consequences on the amount of tax we pay and thereby on
    our financial position and results of operations.


 



    We may
    pursue acquisitions, dispositions, investments and joint
    ventures, which could affect our results of
    operations.


 


    We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions of, and
    investments in, businesses that offer complementary products,
    services and technologies, augment our market coverage, or
    enhance our technological capabilities. We may also enter into
    strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. We
    cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable
    acquisition, investment, alliance, or joint venture
    opportunities or that we will be able to consummate any such
    transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable
    to us, or that such transactions or relationships will be
    successful.


 


    These transactions or any other acquisitions or dispositions
    involve risks and uncertainties. For example, the integration of
    acquired businesses may not be successful and could result in
    disruption to other parts of our business. In addition, the
    integration may require that we incur significant restructuring
    charges. To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our
    management information systems, operating systems and internal
    controls, and assimilate and manage the personnel of the
    acquired operations. The difficulties of the integrations may be
    further complicated by such factors as geographic distances,
    lack of experience operating in the geographic market or
    industry sector of the acquired business, delays and challenges
    associated with integrating the business with our existing
    businesses, diversion of management’s attention from daily
    operations of the business, potential loss of key employees and
    customers of the acquired business, the potential for
    deficiencies in internal controls at the acquired or combined
    business, performance problems with the acquired business’
    technology, difficulties in entering markets in which we have no
    or limited direct prior experience, exposure to unanticipated
    liabilities of the acquired business, insufficient revenues to
    offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition, and
    our potential inability to achieve the growth prospects and
    synergies expected from any such acquisition. Even when an
    acquired business has already developed and marketed products,
    there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made
    in a timely fashion or that all pre-acquisition due diligence
    will have identified all material issues that might arise with
    respect to such acquired assets.


 


    Any acquisition may also cause us to assume liabilities, acquire
    goodwill and
    non-amortizable
    intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and
    potential impairment charges, incur amortization expense related
    to certain intangible assets, increase our expenses and working
    capital requirements, and subject us to litigation, which would
    reduce our return on invested capital. Failure to manage and
    successfully integrate the acquisitions we make could materially
    harm our business and operating results.




    
    23



Table of Contents





    Any future acquisitions may require additional debt or equity
    financing, which, in the case of debt financing, would increase
    our leverage and potentially affect our credit ratings, and in
    the case of equity financing, would be dilutive to our existing
    shareholders. Any downgrades in our credit ratings associated
    with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow
    by resulting in more restrictive borrowing terms. As a result of
    the foregoing, we also may not be able to complete acquisitions
    or strategic customer transactions in the future to the same
    extent as in the past, or at all. These and other factors could
    harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability
    at acquired operations or realize other anticipated benefits of
    an acquisition, and could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Our
    business is subject to various governmental regulations, and
    compliance with these regulations may cause us to incur
    significant expenses. If we fail to maintain compliance with
    applicable regulations, we may be forced to recall products and
    cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be
    subject to civil or criminal penalties.


 


    Our business is subject to various significant international and
    U.S. laws and other legal requirements, including
    packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations.
    These regulations are complex, change frequently and have
    generally become more stringent over time. We may be required to
    incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or
    to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to
    comply with applicable government regulations could result in
    cessation of our operations or portions of our operations,
    product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our
    ability to conduct our operations. In addition, because many of
    our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we
    must comply with additional regulations in marketing our
    products.


 


    Our products and operations are also subject to the rules of
    industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards
    Organization, as well as regulation by other agencies, such as
    the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. If we fail to
    adequately address any of these rules or regulations, our
    business could be harmed.


 


    We must conform the manufacture and distribution of our
    semiconductors to various laws and adapt to regulatory
    requirements in all countries as these requirements change. If
    we fail to comply with these requirements in the manufacture or
    distribution of our products, we could be required to pay civil
    penalties, face criminal prosecution and, in some cases, be
    prohibited from distributing our products commercially until the
    products or component substances are brought into compliance.


 



    We are
    subject to environmental, health and safety laws, which could
    increase our costs, restrict our operations and require
    expenditures that could have a material adverse affect on our
    results of operations and financial condition.


 


    We are subject to a variety of international and U.S. laws
    and other legal requirements relating to the use, disposal,
    clean-up of
    and human exposure to, hazardous materials. Any failure by us to
    comply with environmental, health and safety requirements could
    result in the limitation or suspension of production or subject
    us to future liabilities in excess of our reserves. In addition,
    compliance with environmental, health and safety requirements
    could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require
    us to acquire costly pollution control equipment, incur other
    significant expenses or modify our manufacturing processes. In
    the event of the discovery of new contamination, additional
    requirements with respect to existing contamination, or the
    imposition of other cleanup obligations for which we are
    responsible, we may be required to take remedial or other
    measures which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 


    We also face increasing complexity in our product design and
    procurement operations as we adjust to new requirements relating
    to the materials composition of our products, including the
    restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics
    that apply to specified electronics products sold in the
    European Union as of July 1, 2006 under the Restriction of
    Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment
    Directive. Other countries, such as the United States, China and
    Japan, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to
    the EU legislation. Other environmental regulations may require
    us to reengineer our products to utilize components that are
    more environmentally compatible. Such reengineering and
    component substitution may result in excess inventory or other
    additional costs and could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations.




    
    24



Table of Contents





    In addition to the costs of complying with environmental, health
    and safety requirements, we may in the future incur costs
    defending against environmental litigation brought by government
    agencies and private parties. We may be defendants in lawsuits
    brought by parties in the future alleging environmental damage,
    personal injury or property damage. A significant judgment
    against us could harm our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 


    In the last few years, there has been increased media scrutiny
    and associated reports focusing on a potential link between
    working in semiconductor manufacturing clean room environments
    and certain illnesses, primarily different types of cancers.
    Regulatory agencies and industry associations have begun to
    study the issue to see if any actual correlation exists. Because
    we utilize clean rooms, we may become subject to liability
    claims. In addition, these reports may also affect our ability
    to recruit and retain employees.


 


    We cannot predict:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in environmental or health and safety laws or
    regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the manner in which environmental or health and safety laws or
    regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to enforce and collect under indemnity agreements
    and insurance policies relating to environmental
    liabilities; or




 



     
        • 

    
    the cost of compliance with future environmental or health and
    safety laws or regulations or the costs associated with any
    future environmental claims, including the cost of
    clean-up of
    currently unknown environmental conditions.





 



    We
    have taken significant restructuring charges in the past and may
    need to take material restructuring charges in the
    future.


 


    During fiscal year 2009, we pursued a number of restructuring
    initiatives designed to reduce costs and increase revenue across
    our operations, in large part due to the global economic
    downturn and related decline in demand for our customers’
    products. These initiatives included significant workforce
    reductions in certain areas as we realigned our business,
    establishing certain operations closer in location to our global
    customers, evaluating functions more efficiently performed
    through partnerships or other outside relationships and steps to
    attempt to further reduce our overhead costs. As a result of
    these initiatives, we incurred restructuring charges of
    $34 million in fiscal year 2009 and $4 million in
    fiscal year 2010.


 


    We may be required to take additional charges in the future as
    we continue to evaluate our operations and cost structures
    relative to general economic conditions, market demands, cost
    competitiveness, and our geographic footprint as it relates to
    our customers’ production requirements. We cannot assure
    you as to the timing or amount of any future restructuring
    charges. If we are required to take additional restructuring
    charges in the future, our operating results, financial
    condition, and cash flows may be adversely impacted.
    Additionally, there are other potential risks associated with
    our restructurings that could adversely affect us, such as
    delays encountered with the finalization and implementation of
    the restructuring activities, work stoppages, and the failure to
    achieve targeted cost savings.


 



    We are
    subject to risks associated with our distributors’ product
    inventories and product sell-through.


 


    We sell many of our products to customers through distributors
    who maintain their own inventory of our products for sale to
    dealers and end users. We recognize revenues for sales to
    distributors upon delivery to the distributor. We limit
    distributor return rights and we allow limited price adjustments
    on sales to distributors. We provide reserves for distributor
    rights related to these limited stock returns and price
    adjustments. Sales to distributors accounted for 41% and 33% of
    our net revenue for the fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively.


 


    If these distributors are unable to sell an adequate amount of
    their inventory of our products in a given quarter to dealers
    and end users or if they decide to decrease their inventories
    for any reason, such as due to the recent global recession or
    due to any downturn in technology spending, our sales to these
    distributors and our revenues may decline. In addition, if
    distributors decide to purchase more inventory in any particular
    quarter, due to product





    
    25



Table of Contents





    availability or other reasons, than is required to satisfy end
    customer demand, inventory at our distributors may grow in such
    quarter, which could adversely affect our product revenues in a
    subsequent quarter as such distributors will likely reduce
    future orders until their inventory levels realign with end
    customer demand. For example, during the fiscal year ended
    November 1, 2009, and in particular during the first fiscal
    quarter of that year, the semiconductor industry experienced a
    significant decline in demand. Consequently, our distributors
    experienced declines in their resales of our products and were
    carrying a higher level of inventories of our products than
    historical levels at the end of the first quarter of fiscal year
    2009. As a result, our distributors reduced their inventory of
    our products during the second fiscal quarter of 2009 and we
    also reduced our own inventory by $27 million or 15% in
    that quarter.


 


    We also face the risk that our distributors may for other
    reasons have inventory levels of our products in excess of
    future anticipated sales. If such sales do not occur in the time
    frame anticipated by these distributors for any reason, these
    distributors may substantially decrease the amount of product
    they order from us in subsequent periods, which would harm our
    business.


 


    Our reserve estimates associated with products stocked by our
    distributors are based largely on reports that our distributors
    provide to us on a monthly basis. To date, we believe this data
    has been generally accurate. To the extent that this resale and
    channel inventory data is inaccurate or not received in a timely
    manner, we may not be able to make reserve estimates for future
    periods accurately or at all.


 



    We
    rely on third-party distributors and manufacturers’
    representatives, as well as our employee sales representatives,
    and the failure of these representatives to perform as expected
    could reduce our future sales.


 


    We sell many of our products to customers through distributors
    and manufacturers’ representatives, as well as through our
    employee sales representatives. We are unable to predict the
    extent to which our distributors and manufacturers’
    representatives will be successful in marketing and selling our
    products. Moreover, many of our distributors and
    manufacturers’ representatives and distributors also market
    and sell competing products. Our relationships with our
    representatives and distributors may be terminated by either
    party at any time. As part of a change in strategy, in order to
    more effectively manage sales representatives performance, we
    recently terminated our relationships with a substantial number
    of our manufacturing representatives in the United States and
    have replaced them with additional employee representatives. We
    continue to evaluate our sales strategy and may make further
    changes in the future, which may include terminating additional
    manufacturing representatives. Our future performance will
    depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional
    distributors or manufacturers’ representatives that will be
    able to market and support our products effectively, especially
    in markets in which we have not previously distributed our
    products, and on our ability to effectively transition sales
    efforts from our terminated U.S. manufacturing
    representatives to our employee sales representatives. If we
    cannot retain our current distributors or manufacturers’
    representatives or recruit additional or replacement
    distributors or manufacturers’ representatives, or
    effectively manage the transition from our terminated
    U.S. manufacturing representatives to our employee sales
    representatives, our sales and operating results will be harmed.
    We continue to adjust our sales strategy regarding the use of
    manufacturing representatives and direct sales employees as
    needed.


 



    The
    average selling prices of products in our markets have
    historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the
    future, which could harm our revenues and gross
    profits.


 


    The products we develop and sell are used for high volume
    applications. As a result, the prices of those products have
    historically decreased rapidly. Gross profits on our products
    may be negatively affected by, among other things, pricing
    pressures from our customers, and the proportion of sales of our
    wireless and other products into consumer application markets,
    which are highly competitive and cost sensitive. In the past, we
    have reduced the average selling prices of our products in
    anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new
    product introductions by us or our competitors and other
    factors. Our gross profits and financial results will suffer if
    we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling
    prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing manufacturing
    costs, or developing new and higher value-added products on a
    timely basis.




    
    26



Table of Contents






    We are
    required to assess our internal control over financial reporting
    on an annual basis and any adverse findings from such assessment
    could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial
    reports, significant expenses to remediate any internal control
    deficiencies and ultimately have an adverse effect on our share
    price.


 


    We are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting annually and disclosure
    controls and procedures quarterly. As required, we complied with
    Section 404 under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as
    amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for fiscal year 2010. Even
    though our system of internal controls has achieved compliance
    with Section 404, we need to maintain our processes and
    systems and adapt them to changes as our business changes and we
    rearrange management responsibilities and reorganize our
    business accordingly. This continuous process of maintaining and
    adapting our internal controls and complying with
    Section 404 is expensive, time-consuming and requires
    significant management attention. We cannot be certain that our
    internal control measures will continue to provide adequate
    control over our financial processes and reporting and ensure
    compliance with Section 404. Furthermore, as our business
    changes and as we acquire other companies, our internal controls
    may become more complex and we may require more resources to
    ensure they remain effective. Failure to implement required new
    or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their
    implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to
    fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent
    registered public accounting firm identify material weaknesses
    in our internal controls, the disclosure of that fact, even if
    quickly remedied, may cause investors to lose confidence in our
    financial statements and the trading price of our ordinary
    shares may decline.


 


    Remediation of a material weakness could require us to incur
    significant expense and if we fail to remedy any material
    weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, our
    ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate
    basis may be adversely affected, our access to the capital
    markets may be restricted, the trading price of our ordinary
    shares may decline, and we may be subject to sanctions or
    investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or
    The Nasdaq Global Select Market. We may also be required to
    restate our financial statements from prior periods.


 



    Our
    indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and our
    ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations,
    limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our
    industry and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under
    our indebtedness.


 


    We have a $350 million revolving credit facility of which
    $339 million is currently available for borrowings.
    Borrowings under our senior credit agreement are secured by
    substantially all of our assets. Subject to restrictions in our
    senior credit agreement, we may incur additional indebtedness.


 


    While we have recently significantly reduced the amount of our
    indebtedness by redeeming and repurchasing all of our previously
    outstanding notes in 2009 and 2010, if we were to borrow
    substantial amounts under our revolving credit facility or
    otherwise incur significant additional indebtedness, it could
    have important consequences including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and
    industry conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby
    reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working
    capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts,
    execution of our business strategy and other general corporate
    purposes;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in the economy and the semiconductor industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors with less indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposing us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable
    rate indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to, or increasing the costs to, refinance
    indebtedness; and







    
    27



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    making it more difficult to borrow additional funds in the
    future to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other
    purposes.





 


    Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our
    business, financial conditions and results of operations.


 



    Our
    senior credit agreement imposes significant restrictions on our
    business.


 


    Our senior credit agreement contains a number of covenants
    imposing significant restrictions on our business. These
    restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and
    may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business
    opportunities as they arise. The restrictions placed on us
    include limitations on our ability and the ability of our
    subsidiaries to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional indebtedness and issue ordinary or preferred
    shares;




 



     
        • 

    
    pay dividends or make other distributions on, redeem or
    repurchase our shares or make other restricted payments;




 



     
        • 

    
    make investments, acquisitions, loans or advances;




 



     
        • 

    
    incur or create liens;




 



     
        • 

    
    transfer or sell certain assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    engage in sale and lease back transactions;




 



     
        • 

    
    declare dividends or make other payments to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    guarantee indebtedness;




 



     
        • 

    
    engage in transactions with affiliates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our
    assets.





 


    In addition, over a specified limit, our senior credit agreement
    requires us to meet a financial ratio test and restricts our
    ability to make capital expenditures or prepay certain other
    indebtedness. Our ability to meet the financial ratio test may
    be affected by events beyond our control, and we do not know
    whether we will be able to maintain this ratio. The foregoing
    restrictions could limit our ability to plan for, or react to,
    changes in market conditions or our capital needs. We do not
    know whether we will be granted waivers under, or amendments to,
    our senior credit agreement if for any reason we are unable to
    meet these requirements, or whether we will be able to refinance
    our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all.


 


    The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could
    result in a default under our senior credit agreement. If we are
    unable to repay amounts due under the credit facility when due
    or in the event of a default, the lenders under our senior
    credit agreement could proceed against the collateral securing
    that debt. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Risks
    Relating to Investments in Singapore Companies


 



    It may
    be difficult to enforce a judgment of U.S. courts for civil
    liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws against us, our
    directors or officers in Singapore.


 


    We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Singapore,
    and certain of our officers and directors are or will be
    residents outside the United States. Moreover, a majority of our
    consolidated assets are located outside the United States.
    Although we are incorporated outside the United States, we have
    agreed to accept service of process in the United States through
    our agent designated for that purpose. Nevertheless, since a
    majority of the consolidated assets owned by us are located
    outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United
    States against us may not be collectible within the United
    States.


 


    There is no treaty between the United States and Singapore
    providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of
    judgments in civil and commercial matters and a final judgment
    for the payment of money rendered





    
    28



Table of Contents





    by any federal or state court in the United States based on
    civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the
    federal securities laws, would, therefore, not be automatically
    enforceable in Singapore. There is doubt whether a Singapore
    court may impose civil liability on us or our directors and
    officers who reside in Singapore in a suit brought in the
    Singapore courts against us or such persons with respect to a
    violation solely of the federal securities laws of the United
    States, unless the facts surrounding such a violation would
    constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Singapore
    law. Consequently, it may be difficult for investors to enforce
    against us, our directors or our officers in Singapore judgments
    obtained in the United States which are predicated upon the
    civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the
    United States.


 



    We are
    incorporated in Singapore and our shareholders may have more
    difficulty in protecting their interest than they would as
    shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United
    States.


 


    Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and
    articles of association and by the laws governing corporations
    incorporated in Singapore. The rights of our shareholders and
    the responsibilities of the members of our board of directors
    under Singapore law are different from those applicable to a
    corporation incorporated in the United States. Therefore, our
    public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their
    interest in connection with actions taken by our management,
    members of our board of directors or our controlling shareholder
    than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in
    the United States. For example, controlling shareholders in
    U.S. corporations are subject to fiduciary duties while
    controlling shareholders in  Singapore corporations are not
    subject to such duties. Please see “Comparison of
    Shareholder Rights” in the definitive Proxy Statement for
    our 2010 annual general meeting.


 



    For a
    limited period of time, our directors have general authority to
    allot and issue new ordinary shares on terms and conditions as
    may be determined by our board of directors in its sole
    discretion.


 


    Under Singapore law, we may only allot and issue new shares with
    the prior approval of our shareholders in a general meeting. At
    our 2010 annual general meeting of shareholders, our
    shareholders provided our directors with the general authority
    to allot and issue any number of new ordinary shares until the
    earlier of (i) the conclusion of our 2011 annual general
    meeting, (ii) the expiration of the period within which the
    next annual general meeting is required to be held (i.e., within
    15 months from the conclusion of the last general meeting)
    or (iii) the subsequent revocation or modification of such
    general authority by our shareholders acting at a duly noticed
    and convened meeting. Subject to the general authority to allot
    and issue new ordinary shares provided by our shareholders, the
    provisions of the Singapore Companies Act and our memorandum and
    articles of association, our board of directors may allot and
    issue new ordinary shares on terms and conditions as they may
    think fit to impose. Any additional issuances of new ordinary
    shares by our directors may adversely impact the market price of
    our ordinary shares.


 



    Risks
    Relating to Owning Our Ordinary Shares


 



    Control
    by principal shareholders could adversely affect our other
    shareholders.


 


    Investment funds affiliated with KKR and investment funds
    affiliated with Silver Lake together beneficially own
    approximately 39% of our outstanding ordinary shares through
    their ownership of Bali Investments S.àr.l, our principal
    shareholder, and Seletar Investments Pte. Ltd., or Seletar, and
    Geyser Investment Pte. Ltd., or Geyser, beneficially own
    approximately 5% and 4% of our outstanding ordinary shares,
    respectively (based on the number of ordinary shares outstanding
    as of December 10, 2010). In addition, pursuant to the
    terms of our Second Amended and Restated Shareholder Agreement,
    or the Shareholder Agreement, KKR and Silver Lake together, the
    Sponsors, or their respective affiliates, and Seletar, can elect
    their respective designees to serve as members of our board of
    directors. These shareholders will have a continuing ability to
    control our board of directors and will continue to have
    significant influence over our affairs for the foreseeable
    future, including controlling the election of directors and
    significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other
    sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control
    will limit the ability of other shareholders to influence
    corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our
    non-Sponsor shareholders do not view as beneficial. For example,
    this concentration of ownership could have the effect of
    delaying or preventing a change in control or otherwise
    discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain
    control of us, which in turn could cause the market price of our
    ordinary shares to decline or prevent our shareholders from
    realizing a premium over the market price for their ordinary
    shares.




    
    29



Table of Contents





    Prior to December 10, 2010 we were a “controlled
    company” under the rules of The Nasdaq Global Select
    Market, as Bali, Seletar and Geyser, together referred to as the
    Sponsor Group, elected to file as a group with the SEC, with
    respect to their collective ownership of our shares. As of
    December 10, 2010, the Sponsor Group ceased to own a
    majority of our outstanding ordinary shares, and we ceased to be
    a “controlled company” under the rules of The Nasdaq
    Global Select Market. As a result, our board of directors will
    be required to be composed of a majority of independent
    directors and our compensation committee and our nominating and
    corporate governance committee will be required to be comprised
    entirely of independent directors, subject to applicable
    transition periods prescribed by The Nasdaq Global Select Market.


 



    At
    times, our share price has been volatile and it may fluctuate
    substantially in the future, which could result in substantial
    losses for our investors.


 


    The trading price of our ordinary shares has at times fluctuated
    significantly. Our ordinary shares have traded as high as $28.48
    per share and as low as $14.33 per share since our initial
    public offering, or IPO, in August 2009. The trading price of
    our ordinary shares could be subject to wide fluctuations in
    response to many risk factors listed in this “Risk
    Factors” section, and others, many of which are beyond our
    control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition
    and operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    overall conditions in the semiconductor market and general
    economic and market conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    addition or loss of significant customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our
    competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements of technological innovations or competitive
    products by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements by us or our competitors of significant
    acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital
    commitments;




 



     
        • 

    
    additions or departures of key personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities
    analysts;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by
    investors to be comparable to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights,
    including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain
    intellectual property protection for our technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcement of, or expectation of additional financing efforts;




 



     
        • 

    
    sales of our ordinary shares by us or our shareholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent
    trading volume levels of our shares; and




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in our dividend policy.





 


    Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price
    and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to
    affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies.
    These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate
    to the operating performance of those companies. These broad
    market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic,
    political and market conditions such as recessions, interest
    rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may
    negatively impact the market price of our ordinary shares. You
    may not realize any return on your investment in us and may lose
    some or all of your investment. In the past, companies that have
    experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have
    been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be
    the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities
    litigation against us could result in substantial costs and
    divert our management’s attention from other business
    concerns, which could seriously harm our business.


 


    There has been a public market for our ordinary shares for only
    a short period of time. An active, liquid and orderly market for
    our ordinary shares may not develop or be sustained, which could
    depress the trading price of our





    
    30



Table of Contents





    ordinary shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability
    to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling
    shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or
    technologies by using our shares as consideration.


 



    If
    securities or industry analysts do not publish research or
    reports about our business, or publish negative reports about
    our business, our share price and trading volume could
    decline.


 


    The trading market for our ordinary shares depends, in part, on
    the research and reports that securities or industry analysts
    publish about us or our business. We do not have any control
    over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us
    downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our
    share price would likely decline. If one or more of these
    analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly
    publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial
    markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to
    decline.


 



    Future
    sales of our ordinary shares in the public market could cause
    our share price to fall.


 


    Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the
    public market, or the perception that these sales might occur,
    could depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could
    impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of
    additional equity securities.


 


    As of December 10, 2010, approximately 116.0 million
    outstanding ordinary shares are subject to the contractual
    transfer restrictions in our Shareholder Agreement, which is
    described under “Certain Relationships and Related Party
    Transactions — Second Amended and Restated Shareholder
    Agreement — Transfer Restrictions” in the
    definitive proxy statement for our 2010 annual general meeting
    of shareholders. These shares are also subject to
    lock-up
    agreements that holders of the shares have signed with the
    underwriter of the secondary offering of our ordinary shares
    that was completed on December 10, 2010, under which they
    have agreed not to sell, transfer or dispose of, directly or
    indirectly, any shares of our ordinary shares or any securities
    convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for ordinary
    shares without the prior written consent of Deutsche Bank
    Securities until January 5, 2011, subject to a possible
    extension under certain circumstances. The underwriter of this
    offering may, in its sole discretion, release all or some
    portion of the shares subject to the
    30-day
    lock-up
    agreements prior to expiration of such period, and the Company
    and the Sponsors may decide to waive the restrictions in the
    Shareholder Agreement.


 


    An aggregate of approximately 1.8 million shares, as of
    August 1, 2010, and additional shares subject to options
    (of which 4.5 million were vested and exercisable as of
    August 1, 2010), held by certain employees and former
    employees were subject to transfer restrictions, pursuant to the
    terms of the management shareholders agreement, or Management
    Shareholders Agreement, to which they were party. The Management
    Shareholders Agreements, and the share transfer restrictions
    contained therein, were terminated with effect from
    September 27, 2010. As a result, these shares have become
    generally available for sale, subject to compliance with
    applicable securities laws and our insider trading policy.


 


    As of December 10, 2010, holders of approximately
    116.0 million ordinary shares are entitled to rights with
    respect to registration of such shares under the Securities Act
    pursuant to a registration rights agreement. If such holders, by
    exercising their registration rights, sell a large number of
    shares, they could adversely affect the market price for our
    ordinary shares. If we register the sale of additional shares to
    raise capital, and are required to include shares held by these
    holders pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights,
    our ability to raise capital may be impaired.


 


    In addition, shares issued pursuant to our equity incentive
    plans may be freely sold in the public market upon vesting and
    issuance, subject to the restrictions provided under the terms
    of the plan under which they were issued
    and/or the
    option agreements entered into with option holders.


 



    There
    can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash
    dividends or declare them in any particular
    amounts.


 


    Notwithstanding that we recently adopted a cash dividend policy,
    and have declared our first interim cash dividend of $0.07 per
    share, payable on December 30, 2010 to shareholders of
    record at the close of business (5:00 p.m.), Eastern time,
    on December 15, 2010, there can be no assurance that we
    will declare cash dividends in





    
    31



Table of Contents





    the future or in any particular amounts. The actual declaration
    and payment of any future dividend is subject to the approval of
    our board of directors and our dividend policy could change at
    any time. The payment of cash dividends is restricted under the
    terms of our senior credit agreement, applicable law and our
    corporate structure. Pursuant to Singapore law and our articles
    of association, no dividends may be paid except out of our
    profits. Also, because we are a holding company, our ability to
    pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares may be limited by
    restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through
    dividends from subsidiaries, including restrictions under the
    terms of our credit agreement. In addition to these constraints,
    the payment of cash dividends in the future, if any, will be at
    the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon
    such factors as our earnings levels, capital requirements,
    contractual restrictions, cash position and overall financial
    condition and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of
    directors.


 


    Furthermore, any such dividend, if declared, may be an interim
    dividend, under Singapore law, which is wholly provisional and
    may be revoked by our board of directors at any time prior to
    the payment thereof.


 



    The
    requirements of being a public company may strain our resources,
    divert management’s attention and affect our ability to
    attract and retain qualified board members.


 


    As a public company, we are subject to the reporting
    requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, listing
    requirements of The Nasdaq Global Select Market and other
    applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with
    these rules and regulations increases our legal and financial
    compliance costs, make some activities more difficult,
    time-consuming or costly and increases demand on our systems and
    resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that
    we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to
    our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    requires, among other things, that we maintain effective
    disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
    financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required,
    improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal
    control over financial reporting to meet this standard,
    significant resources and management oversight may be required.
    As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from
    other business concerns, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. We may need to hire more employees in the future,
    which will increase our costs and expenses. Furthermore, as we
    grow our business or acquire new businesses, our internal
    controls will become more complex and we may require
    significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls
    overall remain effective. Failure to implement required new or
    improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their
    implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to
    fail to meet our reporting obligations.


 


    In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating
    to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating
    uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial
    compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming.
    These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying
    interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity,
    and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over
    time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing
    bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding
    compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing
    revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to
    invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and
    standards, and this investment may result in increased general
    and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s
    time and attention from revenue-generating activities to
    compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws,
    regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by
    regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to
    practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings
    against us and our business may be harmed.


 


    Being a public company makes it more expensive for us to obtain
    director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required
    to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs
    to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more
    difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our
    board of directors, particularly to serve on committees of our
    board of directors, and qualified executive officers.




    
    32



Table of Contents






    Singapore
    corporate law may impede a takeover of our company by a
    third-party, which could adversely affect the value of our
    ordinary shares.


 


    The Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers contains provisions
    that may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change in
    control of our company for so long as we remain a public company
    with more than 50 shareholders and net tangible assets of
    S$5 million or more. Any person acquiring an interest,
    whether by a series of transactions over a period of time or
    not, either on their own or together with parties acting in
    concert with such person, in 30% or more of our voting shares,
    or, if such person holds, either on their own or together with
    parties acting in concert with such person, between 30% and 50%
    (both inclusive) of our voting shares, and such person (or
    parties acting in concert with such person) acquires additional
    voting shares representing more than 1% of our voting shares in
    any six-month period, must, except with the consent of the
    Securities Industry Council in Singapore, extend a mandatory
    takeover offer for the remaining voting shares in accordance
    with the provisions of the Singapore Code on Take-overs and
    Mergers. While the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers
    seeks to ensure equality of treatment among shareholders, its
    provisions may discourage or prevent certain types of
    transactions involving an actual or threatened change of control
    of our company. These legal requirements may impede or delay a
    takeover of our company by a third-party, which could adversely
    affect the value of our ordinary shares.


 



    Our
    actual operating results may differ significantly from our
    guidance.


 


    From time to time, we release guidance regarding our future
    performance that represents our management’s estimates as
    of the date of release. This guidance, which consists of
    forward- looking statements, is prepared by our management and
    is qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other
    information contained or referred to in the release. Our
    guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with
    published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified
    Public Accountants, and neither our independent registered
    public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or
    outside party compiles or examines the guidance and,
    accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other
    form of assurance with respect thereto.


 


    Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates
    that, while presented with numerical specificity, is inherently
    subject to significant business, economic and competitive
    uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our
    control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to
    future business decisions, some of which will change. We
    generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which
    are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are
    changed but are not intended to represent that actual results
    could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal
    reason that we release this data is to provide a basis for our
    management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and
    investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any
    projections or reports published by any such persons.


 


    Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be
    expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance
    furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly
    from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an
    estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the
    date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance and
    the variations may be material. Investors should also recognize
    that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes
    the farther in the future that the data is forecast. In light of
    the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in
    context and not to place undue reliance on it.


 


    Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or
    the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth
    in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    could result in the actual operating results being different
    than the guidance, and such differences may be adverse and
    material.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B