Item 1A) and “Legal
    Proceedings” (Part I, Item 3), including those
    normally attending international and domestic operations, such
    as changes in economic or political conditions in the regions in
    which we conduct business, currency fluctuations, exchange
    control regulations and the effect of international relations
    and domestic affairs of foreign countries on the conduct of
    business, competitors, tax legislation, legal proceedings, and
    the availability and pricing of raw materials.


 


    No single customer represented 10% or more of our net sales in,
    or trade receivables at year end of, 2010 or 2009. However, as
    of January 1, 2011, the ten largest customers by net sales
    and trade receivables represented 12% and 13%, respectively, and
    were primarily concentrated in our Office and Consumer Products
    segment. The financial position and operations of these
    customers are monitored on an ongoing basis (see “Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II,
    Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Results of Operations and Financial Condition”). United
    States export sales are not a significant part of our business.
    Backlog is not considered material in the industries in which we
    compete.


 


    Our reporting segments are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Pressure-sensitive Materials;




 



     
        • 

    
    Retail Information Services; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Office and Consumer Products.





 


    In addition to our reporting segments, we have other specialty
    converting businesses comprised of several businesses that
    produce specialty tapes and highly engineered labels including
    RFID inlays and labels, and other converted products.


 


    In 2008, we completed the acquisition of DM Label Group
    (“DM Label”), a manufacturer of labels, tags and
    tickets for retail and apparel applications, including woven
    labels. These operations are included in our Retail Information
    Services segment. See “Retail Information Services
    Segment” below for further information.




    
    1



 





    In 2010, the Pressure-sensitive Materials segment contributed
    approximately 56% of our total sales, while the Retail
    Information Services and Office and Consumer Products segments
    contributed approximately 23% and 13%, respectively, of our
    total sales.


 


    In 2010, international operations constituted a substantial
    majority of our business, representing approximately 68% of our
    sales. We expanded our operations, focusing particularly on
    Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. As of January 1,
    2011, we operated approximately 200 manufacturing and
    distribution facilities worldwide, employed approximately
    32,000 persons, and conducted business in over 60 countries.


 



    Pressure-sensitive
    Materials Segment


 


    Our Pressure-sensitive Materials segment manufactures and sells
    Fasson-, JAC-, and Avery Dennison-brand pressure-sensitive roll
    materials, Avery-brand graphics and graphic films, Avery
    Dennison-brand reflective products, and performance polymers
    (largely used to manufacture pressure-sensitive materials). The
    business of this segment tends not to be seasonal, except for
    certain outdoor graphics and reflective products and operations
    in Western Europe. Pressure-sensitive materials consist
    primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and fabrics,
    which are coated with Company-developed and purchased adhesives,
    and then laminated with specially coated backing papers and
    films. They are sold in roll or sheet form with either solid or
    patterned adhesive coatings, and are available in a wide range
    of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties.
    These materials are sold to label printers and converters for
    labeling, decorating, fastening, electronic data processing and
    special applications on a worldwide basis.


 


    A pressure-sensitive, or self-adhesive, material is one that
    adheres to a surface by press-on contact. It generally consists
    of four elements: a face material, which may be paper, metal
    foil, plastic film or fabric; an adhesive, which may be
    permanent or removable; a release coating; and a backing
    material to protect the adhesive against premature contact with
    other surfaces, and which can also serve as the carrier for
    supporting and dispensing individual labels. When the products
    are to be used, the release coating and protective backing are
    removed, exposing the adhesive, and the label or other face
    material is pressed or rolled into place.


 


    Because self-adhesive materials are easy to apply without the
    need for adhesive activation, the use of self-adhesive materials
    often provides cost savings compared with other materials that
    require heat- or moisture-activated adhesives. When used in
    package decoration applications, the visual appeal of
    self-adhesive materials often helps foster increased sales of
    the product on which the materials are applied. Self-adhesive
    materials provide consistent and versatile adhesion and are
    available in a large selection of materials in nearly any size,
    shape and color.


 


    Graphic products consist of a variety of films and other
    products sold to the architectural, commercial sign, digital
    printing, and other related market segments. We also sell
    durable cast and reflective films to the construction,
    automotive, and fleet transportation market segments,
    scrim-reinforced vinyl material for banner sign applications,
    and reflective films for traffic and safety applications. Our
    graphics and reflective businesses are organized on a worldwide
    basis to serve the expanding commercial graphic arts market
    segment, including wide-format digital printing applications. We
    also manufacture and sell proprietary films that are used for
    outdoor, weather-resistant applications.


 


    Performance polymer products include a range of solvent- and
    emulsion-based acrylic polymer adhesives, protective coatings
    and other polymer additives for internal use, as well as for
    sale to other companies.


 


    In this segment, our larger roll materials competitors are
    Raflatac (“Raflatac”), a subsidiary of UPM-Kymmene
    (“UPM”), and Morgan Adhesives (“MACtac”), a
    division of Bemis Company, Inc. For graphics and reflective
    products, our largest competitor is 3M Company. We believe that
    entry of competitors into the field of pressure-sensitive
    adhesives and materials is limited by technical knowledge and
    capital requirements. We believe that our technical knowledge,
    relative size and scale of operations, ability to serve our
    customers with a broad line of quality products and service
    programs, distribution and brand strength, and development and
    commercialization of new products are among the more significant
    factors in maintaining and further developing our competitive
    position.




    
    2



 






    Retail
    Information Services Segment


 


    Our Retail Information Services segment designs, manufactures
    and sells a wide variety of brand identification and information
    management products for retailers, apparel manufacturers,
    distributors and industrial customers on a worldwide basis. The
    business of this segment tends to be seasonal, with higher
    volume generally in advance of the fall
    (back-to-school),
    spring, and holiday shipping periods.


 


    Our brand identification products include woven and printed
    labels, graphic tags and barcode tags. Our information
    management products include price tickets, carton labels, RFID
    tags and printing applications. Services include supply chain
    and security management, and retail store efficiency. Our
    solution-enabling products include printers, fastening and
    application devices, and security management products.


 


    In this segment, our competitors include SML Group and
    Checkpoint Systems, Inc. and Shore to Shore, Inc. We believe
    that our ability to serve our customers consistently wherever
    they manufacture with product innovation, comprehensive brand
    identification and information management product line, and
    global distribution network, service, and quality are the key
    advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive
    position.


 



    Office
    and Consumer Products Segment


 


    The Office and Consumer Products segment manufactures and sells
    a wide range of Avery-brand printable media and other products.
    The business of this segment tends to be seasonal, with higher
    volume related to the
    back-to-school
    season.


 


    This segment’s products are concentrated in a few major
    customers, primarily office products superstores, mass market
    distributors and wholesalers. The loss of one or more of these
    customers could have a material adverse effect on the
    segment’s financial results. We manufacture and sell a wide
    range of Avery-brand products for office, school and home uses:
    printable media, such as copier, ink-jet and laser printer
    labels, related computer software, ink-jet and laser printer
    card and index products; and organization, filing and
    presentation products, such as binders, dividers and sheet
    protectors. We also offer a wide range of other stationery
    products, including writing instruments, markers, adhesives and
    specialty products under brand names such as Avery,
    Marks-A-Lot
    and HI-LITER. The extent of our product offerings varies by
    geographic market.


 


    In this segment, our larger competitors are 3M Company, Acco
    Brands Corporation, Esselte Corporation and manufacturers of
    private-label brands. We believe that our brand strength,
    customer relationships, service excellence, large installed base
    of software that facilitates the use of many of our products,
    ability to serve our customers with a broad line of quality
    products, and development and commercialization of new products
    are among the more significant factors in maintaining and
    further developing our competitive position.


 



    Other
    specialty converting businesses


 


    Other specialty converting businesses include our specialty
    tape, industrial, performance films and automotive products,
    business media, RFID and security printing businesses. These
    businesses manufacture and sell specialty tapes, highly
    engineered films, RFID inlays and labels, pressure-sensitive
    postage stamps and other converted products. These businesses
    are generally not seasonal, except for certain automotive
    products due to plant shutdowns by automotive manufacturers.


 


    The specialty tape business manufactures and sells single- and
    double-coated tapes and adhesive transfer tapes for use in
    non-mechanical fastening, bonding and sealing systems in various
    industries, which are sold to industrial and medical original
    equipment manufacturers, converters, and disposable diaper
    producers worldwide. These products are sold in roll form and
    are available in a wide range of face materials, sizes,
    thicknesses and adhesive properties.


 


    Our automotive businesses primarily consist of custom
    pressure-sensitive and heat-seal labels, pressure-sensitive
    films and engineered fasteners for the automotive market
    segment. These products are sold primarily to original equipment
    manufacturers and their suppliers.




    
    3



 





    Our industrial businesses consist of custom pressure-sensitive
    labels and multi-layer film constructions for durable goods,
    electronics and consumer packaged goods. These products are sold
    primarily to original equipment manufacturers, tier suppliers
    and packaging converters.


 


    Our performance films business produces a variety of decorative
    and functional films, primarily for the automotive industry,
    that are designed for injection mold applications.


 


    Our business media business designs and markets customized
    products for printing and information workflow applications.


 


    Our RFID business manufactures RFID inlays and labels and makes
    use of our existing distribution by marketing to our label
    converting customers.


 


    Our security printing business manufactures and sells
    self-adhesive battery labels to a battery manufacturer, and
    self-adhesive stamps to the U.S. Postal Service.


 


    In addition, we sell specialty print-receptive films to the
    industrial label market segment, metallic pigments to the
    packaging industry, and proprietary wood grain and other
    patterns of film laminates for housing exteriors.


 


    We compete with a number of diverse businesses. Our largest
    competitor for this group of businesses is 3M Company in
    the specialty tape business. We believe that entry of
    competitors into these specialty converting businesses is
    limited by capital and technical requirements. We believe that
    our ability to serve our customers with quality, cost effective
    products and newly-developed and commercialized products are
    among the more significant factors in developing and maintaining
    our competitive position.


 



    Segment
    Financial Information


 


    Certain financial information on our reporting segments and
    other specialty converting businesses for the three years ended
    January 1, 2011 appears in Note 12, “Segment
    Information,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements contained in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders
    (our “2010 Annual Report”) and is incorporated herein
    by reference.


 



    Foreign
    Operations


 


    Certain financial information about our geographic areas for the
    three years ended January 1, 2011 appears in Note 12,
    “Segment Information,” in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements contained in our 2010 Annual Report and is
    incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    Many of our current products are the result of our research and
    development efforts. Our expenses for research, design and
    testing of new products and applications by our operating units
    and the Avery Research Center located in Pasadena, California
    (the “Research Center”) were $95.6 million in
    2010, $90.7 million in 2009, and $94 million in 2008.


 


    Our operating units’ research efforts are directed
    primarily toward developing new products and operating
    techniques and improving product performance, often in close
    association with customers. The Research Center supports our
    operating units’ patent and product development work, and
    focuses on improving adhesives, materials and coating processes,
    as well as related product applications and ventures. These
    efforts often focus on projects relating to printing and coating
    technologies, as well as adhesive, release and ink chemistries.


 



    Patents,
    Trademarks and Licenses


 


    The loss of individual patents or licenses would not be material
    to us taken as a whole, nor to our operating segments
    individually. Our principal trademarks are Avery, Fasson, Avery
    Dennison and the Company’s symbol. We believe these
    trademarks are significant in the market segments in which our
    products compete.




    
    4



 






    Manufacturing
    and Environmental Matters


 


    We use various raw materials, primarily paper, plastic films and
    resins, as well as specialty chemicals purchased from various
    commercial and industrial sources, which are subject to price
    fluctuations. Although shortages could occur from time to time,
    these raw materials are generally available.


 


    We produce a majority of our self-adhesive materials using
    water-based emulsion and hot-melt adhesive technologies.
    Emissions from these operations contain small amounts of
    volatile organic compounds, which are regulated by agencies of
    federal, state, local and foreign governments. We continue to
    evaluate the use of alternative materials and technologies to
    minimize these emissions.


 


    A portion of our manufacturing process for self-adhesive
    materials utilizes certain organic solvents which, unless
    controlled, would be emitted into the atmosphere. Emissions of
    these substances are regulated by agencies of federal, state,
    local and foreign governments. In connection with the
    maintenance and acquisition of certain manufacturing equipment,
    we invest in solvent capture and control units to assist in
    regulating these emissions.


 


    We have developed adhesives and adhesive processing systems that
    minimize the use of solvents. Emulsion adhesives, hot-melt
    adhesives or solventless silicone systems have been installed in
    our facilities in Peachtree City, Georgia; Fort Wayne and
    Greenfield, Indiana; Painesville, Ohio; and Quakertown,
    Pennsylvania; as well as in other plants in the United States,
    Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, Colombia, France,
    Germany, India, Korea, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, the
    Netherlands, South Africa, Thailand and the United Kingdom.


 


    Based on current information, we do not believe that the cost of
    complying with applicable laws regulating the discharge of
    materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the
    protection of the environment, will have a material effect upon
    our capital expenditures, consolidated financial position or
    results of operations.


 


    For information regarding our potential responsibility for
    cleanup costs at certain hazardous waste sites, see “Legal
    Proceedings” (Part I, Item 3) and
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition” (Part II,
    Item 7).


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are available free of charge on our Web site at
    www.averydennison.com (in the “Investors” section) as
    soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing with or
    furnishing to the SEC. We make available on our Web site our
    (i) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (ii) Code of
    Conduct, which applies to our directors, officers and employees,
    (iii) Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and
    Senior Financial Officers, (iv) the charters of the Audit,
    Compensation and Executive Personnel, and Governance and Social
    Responsibility Committees of our Board of Directors, and
    (v) Audit Committee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and
    Auditing Matters. These materials are also available free of
    charge in print to stockholders who request them by writing to:
    Secretary, Avery Dennison Corporation, 150 North Orange Grove
    Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91103.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    Our ability to attain our goals and objectives is materially
    dependent on numerous factors and risks, including but not
    limited to, the following:


 



    As a
    manufacturer, our sales and profitability are dependent upon the
    cost and availability of raw materials and energy, which are
    subject to price fluctuations, and our ability to control or
    pass on costs of raw materials and labor. Raw material cost
    increases could adversely affect our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.


 


    The pricing environment for raw materials used in a number of
    our businesses continues to be challenging and volatile.
    Additionally, energy costs remain volatile and unpredictable.
    Inflationary and other increases in the costs of raw materials,
    labor and energy have occurred in the past, recurred in 2010 and
    thus far in 2011, and are expected





    
    5



 





    to recur. Our performance depends in part on our ability to pass
    on these cost increases to customers through our selling prices
    for products and to effect productivity improvements. Depending
    on market dynamics and the terms of customer contracts, our
    ability to recover these costs through increased pricing may be
    limited. Also, it is important for us to obtain timely delivery
    of materials, equipment, and other resources from suppliers, and
    to make timely delivery to customers. It is possible that any of
    our supplier relationships could be interrupted due to natural
    and other disasters or other events, or be terminated in the
    future. A disruption to our supply chain could adversely affect
    our sales and profitability, and any sustained interruption in
    our receipt of adequate supplies could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    We are
    affected by competitive conditions and customer preferences. If
    we do not compete effectively, we could lose market share and
    experience falling prices, adversely affecting our financial
    results.


 


    We are at risk that our competitors will expand in our key
    market segments and implement new technologies making them more
    competitive. Competitors also may be able to offer additional
    products, services, lower prices, or other incentives that we
    cannot or will not offer or that will make our products less
    profitable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    compete successfully against current and future competitors.


 


    We also are at risk with regard to changes in customer order
    patterns, such as changes in the levels of inventory maintained
    by customers and the timing of customer purchases, which may be
    affected by announced price changes, changes in our incentive
    programs, or changes in the customer’s ability to achieve
    incentive goals. Changes in customers’ preferences for our
    products can also affect the demand for our products. Our
    business could be negatively impacted by a decline in demand for
    our products.


 



    The
    demand for our products is impacted by the effects of, and
    changes in, worldwide conditions, which could have an adverse
    effect on our sales and profitability.


 


    We conduct business in over 60 countries and our domestic and
    international operations are strongly influenced by matters
    beyond our control, including changes in political, social,
    economic and labor conditions, tax laws (including
    U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), and international
    trade regulations (including tariffs), as well as the impact of
    these changes on the underlying demand for our products.


 



    Changes
    in tax legislation throughout the world could materially impact
    our results.


 


    Our future effective tax rate and related tax balance sheet
    attributes could be impacted by changes in tax legislation
    throughout the world. In particular, proposed U.S. tax
    legislation could materially impact our results. Currently, the
    majority of our revenue is generated from customers located
    outside of the U.S., and a substantial portion of our assets and
    employees are located outside of the U.S. We have not
    accrued income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on
    undistributed earnings for most
    non-U.S. subsidiaries,
    because those earnings are intended to be indefinitely
    reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. Certain
    proposals could substantially increase our tax expense, which
    would substantially reduce our income and have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows from
    operating activities.


 



    Changes
    in economic conditions in the regions in which we conduct
    business could negatively impact our customers, suppliers and
    business.


 


    A decline in economic activity in the United States and other
    regions of the world can result in adverse effects on our
    business, including, among other things, reduced consumer
    spending, inflation, declines in asset valuations, diminished
    liquidity and credit availability, significant volatility in
    securities prices, rating downgrades, and fluctuations in
    foreign currency exchange rates. The most recent declines in
    economic conditions were experienced in the United States,
    Europe, and Asia and adversely affected our customers, suppliers
    and businesses similar to ours and resulted in a variety of
    negative effects, such as reduction in revenues, increased
    costs, lower gross margin percentages, increased allowances for
    doubtful accounts
    and/or
    write-offs of accounts receivable, and required recognition of
    impairments of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other
    intangibles. A decline in economic conditions could also have
    other material adverse effects on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition





    
    6



 





    and cash flows. We are not able to predict the duration and
    severity of adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and
    other countries, and there can be no assurance that there will
    not be further declines in economic activity.


 



    Foreign
    currency exchange rates, and fluctuations in those rates, may
    affect our reported sales and profitability.


 


    In 2010, approximately 68% of our sales were from international
    operations. Fluctuations in currencies can cause transaction,
    translation and other losses to us, which could negatively
    impact our sales and profitability. Margins on sales of our
    products in foreign countries could be materially and adversely
    affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.


 


    We monitor our foreign currency exposures and may, from time to
    time, use hedging instruments to mitigate exposure to changes in
    foreign currencies. Hedging activities may only offset a portion
    of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in
    foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in
    place.


 



    Our
    future profitability may be adversely affected if we generate
    less productivity improvement than projected.


 


    We intend to continue efforts to reduce costs in many of our
    operations through facility closures, headcount reductions,
    organizational restructuring, process standardization, and
    manufacturing relocation, by using a variety of tools, such as
    Lean Sigma and Kaizen events, to increase productivity. However,
    the success of these efforts is not assured and lower levels of
    productivity could reduce profitability. In addition, cost
    reduction actions could expose us to additional production risk
    and loss of sales.


 



    We have
    acquired companies and may continue to acquire other companies.
    Acquisitions come with significant risks and uncertainties,
    including those related to integration, technology and
    personnel. In addition, divestures of any of our businesses or
    product lines could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    To grow our product lines and expand into new markets, we have
    made acquisitions, including our acquisitions of Paxar
    Corporation in June 2007 and DM Label Group in April 2008, and
    may do so in the future. Various risks, uncertainties, and costs
    are associated with the acquisitions. Effective integration of
    systems, controls, objectives, personnel, product lines, market
    segments, customers, suppliers, and production facilities and
    cost savings can be difficult to achieve, and the results of
    integration actions are uncertain, particularly given our
    geographically dispersed organization. In addition, we may not
    be able to retain key personnel of an acquired company and we
    may not be able to successfully execute integration strategies
    or achieve projected performance targets for the business
    segment into which an acquired company is integrated. Both
    before and after the closing of an acquisition, our business and
    those of the acquired company or companies may suffer due to
    uncertainty or diversion of management attention. There can be
    no assurance that any acquisitions will be successful and
    contribute to our profitability and we may not be able to
    identify new acquisition opportunities in the future.


 


    We continually evaluate the performance of our businesses and
    may determine to sell a business or product line. Divestures may
    result in significant write-offs or impairments of assets,
    including goodwill and other intangible assets. Divestitures may
    involve additional risks, including separation of operations,
    products and personnel, diversion of management attention,
    disruption to our other businesses and loss of key employees. We
    may not successfully manage these or other risks we may confront
    in divesting a business or product line, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.


 



    Our
    customer base is diversified, but in certain portions of our
    business, industry concentration has increased the importance,
    and decreased the number, of significant customers.


 


    Sales of our office and consumer products in the United States
    are concentrated in a few major customers, principally office
    product superstores, mass market distributors and wholesalers.
    The business risk associated with this concentration, including
    increased credit risks for these and other customers, and the
    possibility of related bad debt write-offs, could negatively
    affect our margins and profits.




    
    7



 






    Possible
    increased difficulty in the collection of receivables as a
    result of economic conditions or other market factors could have
    a material effect on our results from operations and anticipated
    cash from operating activities.


 


    Although we have processes to administer credit granted to
    customers and believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is
    adequate, we have experienced, and in the future may experience,
    losses as a result of our inability to collect our accounts
    receivable. The financial difficulties of a customer could
    result in reduced business with that customer. We may also
    assume higher credit risk relating to receivables of a customer
    experiencing financial difficulty. If these developments occur,
    our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on
    our trade accounts receivable from major customers could
    substantially reduce our income and have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations and cash flows from
    operating activities.


 



    Our
    inability to develop and successfully market new products and
    applications could compromise our competitive
    position.


 


    The timely introduction of new products and improvements in
    current products helps determine our success. Research and
    development for each of our operating segments is complex and
    uncertain and requires innovation and anticipation of market
    trends. We could focus on products that ultimately are not
    accepted by customers or we could suffer delays in production or
    launch of new products that could compromise our competitive
    position.


 



    For us to
    remain competitive, it is important to recruit and retain
    highly-skilled employees. We also utilize various outsourcing
    arrangements for certain services, and related delays, resource
    availability, or errors may lead to increased costs or
    disruption in our business.


 


    There is significant competition to recruit and retain skilled
    employees. Due to expansion in certain markets and the ongoing
    productivity efforts and recent employee reductions, it may be
    difficult for us to recruit and retain sufficient numbers of
    highly-skilled employees.


 


    We have outsourced certain services to third-party service
    providers, and may outsource other services in the future to
    achieve cost savings and efficiencies. Service provider delays,
    resource availability, business issues or errors may lead to
    disruption in our businesses
    and/or
    increased costs. If we do not effectively develop, implement and
    manage outsourcing strategies, if third-party providers do not
    perform effectively and in a timely manner, or if we experience
    problems with a transition, we may not be able to achieve our
    expected cost savings, and may have to experience delays or
    incur additional costs to correct errors made by these service
    providers.


 



    Significant
    disruption to our information technology infrastructure could
    adversely impact our operations, sales, customer relations, and
    financial results.


 


    We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of a large
    and complex information technology infrastructure to link our
    worldwide divisions. Like other information technology systems,
    ours is susceptible to a number of factors including, but not
    limited to, damage or interruptions resulting from a variety of
    causes such as obsolescence, natural disasters, power failures,
    human error, viruses and data security breaches. We upgrade and
    install new systems, which, if installed or programmed
    incorrectly or on a delayed timeframe, could cause delays or
    cancellations of customer orders, impede the manufacture or
    shipment of products, or disrupt the processing of transactions.
    We have implemented certain measures to reduce our risk related
    to system and network disruptions, but if a disruption occurs,
    we could incur significant losses and remediation costs.


 


    Additionally, we rely on services provided by third-party
    vendors for a significant portion of our information technology
    support, development and implementation, which may make our
    operations vulnerable to these third parties’ failure to
    perform adequately.


 



    Miscalculation
    of our infrastructure needs could adversely impact our financial
    results.


 


    Projected requirements of our infrastructure investments may
    differ from actual levels if our volume growth is not as we
    anticipate. Our infrastructure investments generally are long
    term in nature, and it is possible that these investments may
    not generate our expected return due to changes in the
    marketplace, failures to complete





    
    8



 





    implementation, or other factors. Significant changes from our
    expected need for
    and/or
    returns on infrastructure investments could adversely affect our
    financial results.


 



    Our
    reputation, sales, and earnings could be affected adversely if
    the quality of our products and services does not meet customer
    expectations.


 


    There are occasions when we manufacture products with quality
    issues resulting from defective materials, manufacturing,
    packaging or design. Many of these issues are discovered before
    shipping, thus causing delays in shipping, delays in the
    manufacturing process, and occasionally cancelled orders. When
    issues are discovered after shipment, it can result in
    additional shipping costs, discounts, refunds, and loss of
    future sales. Both pre-shipping and post-shipping quality issues
    can result in adverse financial consequences and a negative
    impact on our reputation.


 



    Some of
    our products are sold by third parties.


 


    Our products are not sold only by us, but by third-party
    distributors and retailers as well. Some of our distributors
    also market products that compete with our products. Changes in
    the financial or business conditions or the purchasing decisions
    of these third parties or their customers could affect our sales
    and profitability.


 



    We
    outsource some of our manufacturing. If there are significant
    changes in the quality control or financial or business
    condition of these outsourced manufacturers, our business could
    be negatively impacted.


 


    We manufacture most of our products, but we also use third-party
    manufacturers, for example, for specialty jobs or capacity
    overflow. Outsourced manufacturers reduce our ability to prevent
    product quality issues, late deliveries, customer
    dissatisfaction and compliance with customer requirements for
    labor standards. Because of possible quality issues and customer
    dissatisfaction, deficiencies in the performance of outsourced
    manufacturers could have an adverse effect on our business or
    financial results.


 



    Changes
    in our business strategies may increase our costs and could
    affect the profitability of our businesses.


 


    As changes in our business environment occur, we may need to
    adjust our business strategies to meet these changes or we may
    find it otherwise necessary to restructure our operations or
    particular businesses. When these changes occur, we may incur
    costs to change our business strategy and may need to write down
    the value of selected assets. We also may need to invest in new
    businesses that have short-term returns that are negative or low
    and whose ultimate business prospects are uncertain. In any of
    these events, our costs may increase, our assets may be
    impaired, or our returns on new investments may be lower than
    prior to the change in strategy.


 



    If our
    indebtedness increases significantly or our credit ratings are
    downgraded, we may have difficulty obtaining acceptable short-
    and long-term financing from the capital markets.


 


    The overall level of indebtedness and our credit ratings are
    significant factors in our ability to raise short-term and
    long-term financing. Higher debt levels could negatively impact
    our ability to meet other business needs or opportunities and
    could result in higher financing costs. The credit ratings
    assigned to us also impact the interest rates on our commercial
    paper and other borrowings. If our credit ratings are
    downgraded, our financial flexibility could decrease and the
    cost to borrow would increase. At January 1, 2011, our
    variable rate borrowings were approximately $380 million.
    Fluctuations in interest rates can increase borrowing costs and
    have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.


 



    The level
    of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the
    actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect
    our earnings and cash flows in future periods. Changes in
    accounting standards and government regulations could also
    affect our pension and postretirement plan expense and funding
    requirements.


 


    Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations
    and the fair value of plan assets for our pension plan and other
    postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us in consultation
    with outside actuaries. In the event that we determine that
    changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the
    discount rate, expected long-term rate of return, or health care
    costs, our future pension and projected postretirement benefit
    expenses and funding





    
    9



 





    requirements could increase or decrease. Because of changing
    market conditions or changes in the participant population, the
    actuarial assumptions that we use may differ from actual
    results, which could have a significant impact on our pension
    and postretirement liability and related costs. Funding
    obligations are determined based on the value of assets and
    liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant
    government regulations for each plan. Future pension funding
    requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be
    affected by legislation enacted by the relevant governmental
    authorities.


 



    Our share
    price may be volatile.


 


    Changes in our stock price may affect our access to, or cost of
    financing from, capital markets and may affect our stock-based
    compensation arrangements, among other things. Our stock price,
    which has at times experienced substantial volatility, is
    influenced by changes in the overall stock market and demand for
    equity securities in general. Other factors, including our
    financial performance, on a standalone basis and relative to our
    peers and competitors, and market expectations for our future
    performance, the level of perceived growth of our industries,
    and other company-specific events, can also impact our share
    price. There can be no assurance that our stock price will be
    less volatile in the future.


 



    An
    impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively
    impact our consolidated results of operations and net
    worth.


 


    Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not
    amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually (or
    more frequently, if impairment indicators are present). In
    assessing the carrying value of goodwill, we make estimates and
    assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates, and
    discount rates based on our business plans, economic
    projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data.
    There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and
    management’s judgment in applying these factors. Goodwill
    valuations have been calculated using an income approach based
    on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting
    unit. We could be required to evaluate the carrying value of
    goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience
    disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in
    operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our
    business or sustained market capitalization declines. These
    types of events and the resulting analyses resulted in a
    significant goodwill impairment charge in 2009 related to our
    Retail Information Services segment and could result in other
    goodwill impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges
    could substantially affect our financial results in the periods
    of such charges, as did the one in 2009.


 



    Potential
    adverse developments in legal proceedings, investigations and
    other legal, compliance and regulatory matters, including those
    involving product and trade compliance, Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act issues and other matters, could impact us
    materially.


 


    Our financial results could be materially and adversely impacted
    by an unfavorable outcome to pending or future litigation and
    investigations, including but not limited to, proceedings or
    lawsuits related to class actions seeking treble damages for
    alleged unlawful competitive practices, and other legal,
    compliance and regulatory matters, including, but not limited
    to, product, customs and trade compliance matters. See
    “Legal Proceedings” (Part I, Item 3). There
    can be no assurance that any investigation or litigation outcome
    will be favorable.


 



    Infringing
    intellectual property rights of third parties or inadequately
    acquiring or protecting our intellectual property could harm our
    ability to compete or grow.


 


    Because our products involve complex technology and chemistry,
    we are involved, from time to time, in litigation involving
    patents and other intellectual property. Parties have filed, and
    in the future may file, claims against us alleging that we have
    infringed their intellectual property rights. If we are held
    liable for infringement, we could be required to pay damages,
    obtain licenses or cease making or selling certain products.
    There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on
    commercially reasonable terms or will be available at all. The
    defense of these claims, whether or not meritorious, and the
    development of new technology could cause us to incur
    significant costs and divert the attention of management.




    
    10



 





    We also have valuable intellectual property upon which third
    parties may infringe. We attempt to protect and restrict access
    to our intellectual property and proprietary information by
    relying on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret
    laws of the U.S. and other countries, as well as
    non-disclosure agreements. However, it may be possible for a
    third party to obtain our information without our authorization,
    independently develop similar technologies, or breach a
    non-disclosure agreement entered into with us. In addition, many
    of the countries in which we operate do not have intellectual
    property laws that protect proprietary rights as fully as in the
    U.S. The use of our intellectual property by someone else
    without our authorization could reduce or eliminate certain
    competitive advantages we have, cause us to lose sales or
    otherwise harm our business. Further, the costs associated with
    protecting our intellectual property rights could adversely
    impact our profitability.


 


    We have obtained and applied for some U.S. and foreign
    trademark registrations and patents, and will continue to
    evaluate whether to register additional trademarks and seek
    patents as appropriate. We cannot guarantee that any of the
    pending applications will be approved by the applicable
    government authorities. Further, we cannot assure that the
    validity of our patents or our trademarks will not be
    challenged. In addition, third parties may be able to develop
    competing products using technology that avoids our patents.


 



    We need
    to comply with numerous environmental, health, and safety
    laws.


 


    Due to the nature of our business, we are subject to
    environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations,
    including those related to the disposal of hazardous waste from
    our manufacturing processes. Compliance with existing and future
    environmental, health and safety laws could subject us to future
    costs or liabilities; impact our production capabilities;
    constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities; and
    generally impact our financial performance. We have accrued
    liabilities for environmental
    clean-up
    sites, including sites for which governmental agencies have
    designated us as a potentially responsible party, where it is
    probable that a loss will be incurred and the cost or amount of
    loss can be reasonably estimated. See “Legal
    Proceedings” (Part I, Item 3). However, because
    of the uncertainties associated with environmental assessment
    and remediation activities, future expense to remediate
    currently identified sites and other sites, which could be
    identified in the future for cleanup, could be higher than the
    liabilities accrued.


 



    Healthcare
    reform legislation could have an impact on our
    business.


 


    During 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and
    the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were
    signed into law in the United States. Certain of the provisions
    that could most significantly increase our healthcare costs in
    the near term include the removal of annual plan limits, the
    changes in rules regarding eligibility for dependents and the
    mandate that health plans cover 100% of preventative care. In
    addition, our healthcare costs could increase if the new
    legislation and accompanying regulations require us to cover
    more employees than we do currently or pay penalty amounts in
    the event that employees do not elect our offered coverage.
    While much of the cost of the recent healthcare legislation
    enacted will occur in or after 2014 due to provisions of the
    legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare
    cost structure could have an impact on our business and
    operating costs.


 



    We are
    subject to risks associated with the availability and coverage
    of various types of insurance.


 


    We have various types of insurance, including property,
    workers’ compensation and general liability. Insurance
    costs can be unpredictable and may adversely impact our
    financial results. We retain some portion of our insurable
    risks, and therefore, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in
    excess of insured limits could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial results.


 



    Changes
    in our tax rates could affect our future results.


 


    Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in
    the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax
    rates, expirations of tax holidays, changes in the valuation of
    deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws and
    regulations or their interpretation. We are subject to the
    regular examination of our income tax returns by various tax
    authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse
    outcomes resulting from these





    
    11



 





    examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for
    taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these
    examinations will not have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and operating results.


 



    The
    amount of various taxes we pay is subject to ongoing compliance
    requirements and audits by federal, state and foreign tax
    authorities.


 


    Our estimate of the potential outcome of uncertain tax issues is
    subject to our assessment of relevant risks, facts, and
    circumstances existing at that time. We use these assessments to
    determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and
    other tax-related accounts. Our future results may include
    favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax
    liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved,
    which may impact our effective tax rate
    and/or our
    financial results.


 



    We have
    deferred tax assets that we may not be able to use under certain
    circumstances.


 


    If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in
    certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in
    the time period within which the underlying temporary
    differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required
    to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax
    assets. This would result in an increase in our effective tax
    rate and would have an adverse effect on our future operating
    results. In addition, changes in statutory tax rates may change
    our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either
    favorable or unfavorable impact on our effective tax rate. Our
    deferred tax assets may also be impacted by new legislation or
    regulation.


 


    The risks described above are not exclusive. If any of the above
    risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash
    flows or financial condition could suffer, which might cause the
    value of our securities to decline.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B