Item 1A,
    “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal
    Proceedings” below, including those normally attending
    international and domestic operations, such as changes in
    economic or political conditions, currency fluctuations,
    exchange control regulations and the effect of international
    relations and domestic affairs of foreign countries on the
    conduct of business, legal proceedings, and the availability and
    pricing of raw materials.


 


    Except as set forth below, no single customer represented 10% or
    more of our net sales or trade receivables at year end 2007 and
    2006. However, our ten largest customers at year end 2007
    represented approximately 17% of trade accounts receivable and
    consisted of six customers of our Office and Consumer Products
    segment, three customers of our Pressure-sensitive Materials
    segment and one customer of both these segments. The financial
    position and operations of these customers are monitored on an
    ongoing basis (see “Critical Accounting Policies and
    Estimates” of Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition”). United States export sales are not a
    significant part of our business. Backlogs are not considered
    material in the industries in which we compete.


 



    Corporate
    Governance and Information Related to SEC Filings


 


    Our Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are available free of charge by way of a third-party
    hyperlink service through our Web site, www.averydennison.com
    (in the “Investors” section), as soon as reasonably
    practical after electronic filing with or furnishing of such
    material to the SEC. We make available at the Web site our
    (i) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (ii) Code of
    Ethics and Business Conduct, which applies to our directors and
    employees, (iii) Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive
    Officer and Senior Financial Officers, (iv) the charters of
    the Audit, Compensation and Executive Personnel, and Nominating
    and Governance Committees of our Board of Directors, and
    (v) Audit Committee Complaint Handling Procedures. These
    materials are also available free of charge in print to
    stockholders who request them by writing to: Secretary, Avery
    Dennison Corporation, 150 North Orange Grove
    Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91103.


 


    On December 1, 2005, Kent Kresa was elected non-executive
    Chairman. Mr. Kresa presides at executive sessions of the
    Board. During 2007, the Board held five executive sessions with
    non-management directors only during regularly scheduled Board
    meetings, as well as one additional executive session with
    independent directors only. Stockholders and other interested
    parties may write to Mr. Kresa concerning matters other
    than accounting and auditing matters
    c/o Secretary,
    Avery Dennison Corporation, 150 North Orange Grove Boulevard,
    Pasadena, California 91103. Stockholders may also write to John
    T. Cardis, Chairman of the Audit Committee, regarding accounting
    and auditing matters
    c/o Secretary
    at the same address.


 



    Pressure-sensitive
    Materials Segment


 


    The Pressure-sensitive Materials segment manufactures and sells
    Fasson-, JAC-, and Avery Dennison-brand pressure-sensitive
    materials, Avery-brand graphics and graphic films, Avery
    Dennison-brand reflective products, and performance polymers.
    The business of this segment is generally not seasonal, except
    for certain outdoor graphics and highway safety products and
    operations in Western Europe. Pressure-sensitive materials
    consist primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and
    fabrics, which are coated with Company-developed and purchased
    adhesives, and then laminated with specially coated backing
    papers and films. They are sold in roll or sheet form with
    either solid or patterned adhesive coatings, and are available
    in a wide range of face materials, sizes,



    
    2



Table of Contents




    thicknesses and adhesive properties. These materials are sold to
    label printers and converters for labeling, decorating,
    fastening, electronic data processing and special applications
    on a worldwide basis.


 


    Graphic products consist of a variety of films and other
    products sold to the architectural, commercial sign, digital
    printing, and other related markets. We also sell durable cast
    and reflective films to the construction, automotive, and fleet
    transportation markets, scrim-reinforced vinyl material for
    banner sign applications, and reflective films for traffic and
    safety applications. Our graphic and reflective businesses are
    organized on a worldwide basis to serve the expanding commercial
    graphic arts market, including wide-format digital printing
    applications. We also manufacture and sell proprietary films
    that are used for outdoor, weather-resistant applications.


 


    Performance polymer products include a range of solvent- and
    emulsion-based acrylic polymer adhesives, protective coatings
    and other polymer additives for internal use, as well as for
    sale to other companies.


 


    In this segment, our larger competitors are Raflatac, a
    subsidiary of UPM-Kymmene; Morgan Adhesives
    (“MACtac”), a division of the Bemis Company; and 3M
    Company (for graphic and reflective products). Entry of
    competitors into the field of pressure-sensitive adhesives and
    materials may be limited by capital requirements and a need for
    technical knowledge. We believe that our relative size and scale
    of operations, our ability to serve our customers with a broad
    line of quality products and service programs, our distribution
    and brand strength, and the development and commercialization of
    new products are among the more significant factors in
    developing and maintaining our competitive position.


 



    Retail
    Information Services Segment


 


    The Retail Information Services segment designs, manufactures
    and sells a wide variety of price marking and brand
    identification products for retailers, apparel manufacturers,
    distributors and industrial customers on a worldwide basis. This
    business is seasonal, with higher volume in advance of the
    back-to-school and holiday shipping periods.


 


    Our brand identification products include woven and printed
    labels, graphic tags and barcode tags. Our information
    management products include price tickets, carton labels, RFID
    tags and printing applications for supply chain and security
    management. Our solution enabling products include barcode
    printers, molded plastic fastening and application devices and
    security management products.


 


    As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Paxar in
    June 2007. The combination of the Paxar business into this
    segment increases our presence in the expanding and fragmented
    retail information and brand identification market, combines
    complementary strengths and broadens the range of our product
    and service capabilities, improves our ability to meet customer
    demands for product innovation and improved quality of service,
    and facilitates expansion into new product and geographic
    segments. The integration of the acquisition into our operations
    is also expected to result in significant cost synergies.


 


    In this segment, some of our competitors are SML Group,
    Checkpoint and Shore To Shore. We believe that our ability to
    serve our customers with product innovation, a comprehensive
    brand identification and information management product line,
    our global distribution network, service, quality, and
    geographic reach are the key advantages in developing and
    maintaining our competitive position.


 



    Office
    and Consumer Products Segment


 


    The Office and Consumer Products segment manufactures and sells
    a wide range of Avery-brand printable media and other products.
    The business of this segment is seasonal, with higher volume
    related to the back-to-school season.


 


    This segment’s products are generally sold through office
    products superstores, mass market distributors, wholesalers and
    dealers. We manufacture and sell a wide range of Avery-brand
    products for office, school and home uses: printable media, such
    as copier, ink-jet and laser printer labels, related computer
    software, ink-jet and laser printer card and index products; and
    organization, filing and presentation products, such as binders,
    dividers and sheet protectors. We also offer a wide range of
    other stationery products, including writing instruments,
    markers,



    
    3



Table of Contents




    adhesives and specialty products under brand names such as
    Avery,
    Marks-A-Lot
    and HI-LITER. The extent of product offerings varies by
    geographic market.


 


    In this segment, our larger competitors are Acco Brands
    Corporation, Esselte Corporation and manufacturers of private
    brands. We believe that our brand strength, a large installed
    base of software that facilitates the use of many of our
    products, our ability to serve our customers with a broad line
    of quality products, and the development and commercialization
    of new products are among the more significant factors in
    developing and maintaining our competitive position.


 



    Other
    specialty converting businesses


 


    Other specialty converting businesses include our specialty
    tape, industrial, performance films and automotive products,
    business media, RFID and security printing businesses. These
    businesses manufacture and sell specialty tapes, highly
    engineered films, RFID inlays, pressure-sensitive postage stamps
    and other converted products. These businesses are generally not
    seasonal, except for certain automotive products due to typical
    summer plant shutdowns by automotive manufacturers.


 


    The specialty tape business manufactures and sells single- and
    double-coated tapes and adhesive transfer tapes for use in
    non-mechanical fastening, bonding and sealing systems in various
    industries, which are sold to industrial and medical original
    equipment manufacturers, converters, and disposable diaper
    producers worldwide. These products are sold in roll form and
    are available in a wide range of face materials, sizes,
    thicknesses and adhesive properties.


 


    Our industrial and automotive products businesses primarily
    consist of custom pressure-sensitive and heat-seal labels for
    the automotive and durable goods industries. These products are
    sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers.


 


    Our performance films business produces a variety of decorative
    and functional films, primarily for the automotive industry,
    that are designed for injection mold applications.


 


    Our business media business designs and markets customized
    products for printing and information workflow applications.


 


    Our RFID business manufactures RFID inlays and labels and makes
    use of our existing distribution by marketing to our label
    converting customers.


 


    Our security printing business manufactures and sells
    self-adhesive battery labels to a battery manufacturer, and
    self-adhesive stamps to the U.S. Postal Service.


 


    In addition, we sell specialty print-receptive films to the
    industrial label market, metallic dispersion products to the
    packaging industry, and proprietary wood grain and other
    patterns of film laminates for housing exteriors and interior
    and exterior automotive applications.


 


    We compete with a number of diverse businesses. Our largest
    competitor for this group of businesses is 3M Company in
    the specialty tape business. Entry of competitors into these
    specialty converting businesses may be limited by capital and
    technical requirements. We believe that our ability to serve our
    customers with quality, cost effective products and the
    development and commercialization of new products are among the
    more significant factors in developing and maintaining our
    competitive position.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    Many of our current products are the result of our research and
    development efforts. Our expenses for research, design and
    testing of new products and applications by our operating units
    and the Avery Research Center (the “Research Center”)
    located in Pasadena, California were $95.5 million in 2007,
    $87.9 million in 2006, and $85.4 million in 2005. A
    significant number of our research and development activities
    are conducted at the Research Center, which supports each of our
    operating segments.


 


    Our operating units’ research efforts are directed
    primarily toward developing new products and operating
    techniques and improving product performance, often in close
    association with customers. The Research Center



    
    4



Table of Contents




    supports our operating units’ patent and product
    development work, and focuses on improving adhesives, materials
    and coating processes, as well as related product applications
    and ventures. These efforts often focus on projects relating to
    printing and coating technologies and adhesive, release and ink
    chemistries.


 


    The loss of individual patents or licenses would not be material
    to us taken as a whole, nor to our operating segments
    individually. Our principal trademarks are Avery, Fasson, Avery
    Dennison and the Company’s symbol. These trademarks are
    significant in the markets in which our products compete.


 



    Three-Year
    Summary of Segment Information


 


    Certain financial information on our reporting segments and
    other specialty converting businesses for the three years ended
    December 29, 2007, which appear in Note 12,
    “Segment Information,” in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements beginning on page 72 of our 2007
    Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by
    reference.


 



    Other
    Matters


 


    We use various raw materials, primarily paper, plastic films and
    resins, and specialty chemicals, which we purchase from a
    variety of commercial and industrial sources and which are
    subject to price fluctuations. Although from time to time
    shortages could occur, these raw materials currently are
    generally available.


 


    We produce a majority of our self-adhesive materials using
    water-based emulsion and hot-melt adhesive technologies.
    Emissions from these operations contain small amounts of
    volatile organic compounds, which can be regulated by agencies
    of federal, state, local and foreign governments. We continue to
    evaluate the use of alternative materials and technologies to
    minimize these emissions.


 


    A portion of our manufacturing process for self-adhesive
    materials utilizes certain organic solvents which, unless
    controlled, would be emitted into the atmosphere. Emissions of
    these substances are regulated by agencies of federal, state,
    local and foreign governments. In connection with the
    maintenance and acquisition of certain manufacturing equipment,
    we invest in solvent capture and control units to assist in
    regulating these emissions.


 


    We have developed adhesives and adhesive processing systems that
    minimize the use of solvents. Emulsion adhesives, hot-melt
    adhesives or solventless silicone systems have been installed in
    our facilities in Peachtree City, Georgia; Fort Wayne and
    Greenfield, Indiana; and Quakertown, Pennsylvania; as well as in
    other plants in the United States, Argentina, Australia,
    Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, France, Germany,
    India, Korea, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands,
    South Africa, Thailand and United Kingdom.


 


    Based on current information, we do not believe that the costs
    of complying with applicable laws regulating the discharge of
    materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the
    protection of the environment, will have a material effect upon
    our capital expenditures, consolidated financial position or
    results of operations.


 


    For information regarding our potential responsibility for
    cleanup costs at certain hazardous waste sites, see “Legal
    Proceedings” (Part I, Item 3) and
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition” (Part II,
    Item 7).


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Our ability to attain our goals and objectives is materially
    dependent on numerous factors and risks, including but not
    limited to, the following:


 



    The
    demand for our products is impacted by economic conditions of
    the principal countries in which we operate. A decline in the
    economies in these countries could have an adverse effect on our
    sales and profitability.


 


    We have operations in 60 countries and our domestic and
    international operations are strongly influenced by matters
    beyond our control, including changes in the political, social,
    economic, tax and regulatory environments (including tariffs) in
    the countries in which we operate, as well as the impact of
    economic conditions on underlying demand for our products. In
    addition, approximately 60% of our sales are from international
    operations.



    
    5



Table of Contents




    Fluctuations in currencies can cause transaction, translation
    and other losses to us, which can negatively impact our sales
    and profitability.


 



    We
    operate in some highly competitive markets. If we do not compete
    effectively, we could lose market share and experience falling
    prices, adversely affecting our financial results.


 


    We are at risk that our competitors will expand in our key
    markets and implement new technologies making them more
    competitive. There is also the possibility that competitors will
    be able to offer additional products, services, lower prices, or
    other incentives that we cannot or will not offer or that will
    make our products less profitable. There can be no assurance
    that we will be able to compete successfully against current and
    future competitors.


 


    We are also at risk with regards to changes in customer order
    patterns, such as changes in the levels of inventory maintained
    by customers and the timing of customer purchases, which may be
    affected by announced price changes, changes in the
    Company’s incentive programs, or the customer’s
    ability to achieve incentive goals. Changes in customers’
    preferences for our products can also affect the demand for our
    products.


 



    We have
    acquired companies and our interest in various acquisition
    opportunities has increased. Acquisitions come with significant
    risks and uncertainties, including those related to integration,
    technology and personnel.


 


    In order to grow our product lines and expand into new markets,
    we have made acquisitions and may do so in the future, for
    example, we acquired Paxar Corporation in 2007. Various risks,
    uncertainties, and costs are associated with the acquisitions.
    Effective integration of systems, controls, objectives,
    personnel, product lines, markets, customers, suppliers,
    production facilities and cost savings can be difficult to
    achieve and the results are uncertain, particularly across our
    geographically dispersed organization. We may not be able to
    retain key personnel of an acquired company and we may not be
    able to successfully execute integration strategies or achieve
    projected performance targets set for the business segment into
    which an acquired company is integrated. Both prior to and after
    the closing of the transactions, our business and those of the
    acquired companies may suffer due to uncertainty or diversion of
    management attention.


 


    There can be no assurance that acquisitions will be successful
    and contribute to our profitability and we may not be able to
    identify new acquisition opportunities in the future.


 



    Our
    increased level of indebtedness following the Paxar acquisition
    could limit our ability to incur additional debt to fund
    business needs over the medium term.


 


    As a result of the Paxar acquisition, our debt levels
    approximately doubled. Although significant debt reduction is
    anticipated over the medium term from both the cash flow
    generation of our underlying businesses and the synergies
    expected from the acquisition, circumstances both within and
    beyond our control could cause debt levels to remain elevated
    for a longer time frame than anticipated. These higher debt
    levels could negatively impact our ability to meet other
    business needs or opportunities and could result in higher
    financing costs.


 



    Potential
    adverse developments in legal proceedings and an investigation
    regarding competitive activities and other legal, compliance and
    regulatory matters, including those involving product and trade
    compliance, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act issues and other
    matters, could impact us materially.


 


    Our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by
    an unfavorable outcome to pending or future litigation and
    investigations, including an Australian Competition and Consumer
    Commission investigation into industry competitive practices,
    lawsuits pertaining to this investigation or to the subject
    matter of now concluded investigations by the
    U.S. Department of Justice, the European Commission, and
    the Competition Law Division of the Department of Justice of
    Canada (including purported class actions in the United States
    seeking treble damages for alleged unlawful competitive
    practices, and a purported class action related to alleged
    disclosure and fiduciary duty violations pertaining to alleged
    unlawful competitive practices, which were filed after the
    announcement of the U.S. Department of Justice
    investigation), the impact of potential violations of the
    U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act based on issues in
    China, and other legal, compliance and regulatory matters,
    including product and trade compliance. See Item 1,
    “Legal Proceedings.” There can be no assurance that
    any investigation or litigation outcome will be favorable.



    
    6



Table of Contents





    Our
    future results may be affected if we generate less productivity
    improvement than projected.


 


    We are undertaking efforts to reduce costs in many of our
    operations, including closure of facilities, headcount
    reductions, organizational simplification and restructuring,
    process standardization, and manufacturing relocation, and using
    a variety of tools such as Lean Sigma and Kaizen events, to
    increase productivity, which is not assured. Lower levels of
    productivity could reduce profitability. In addition, cost
    reduction actions could expose us to additional production risk
    and loss of sales.


 



    As a
    manufacturer, our sales and profitability are also dependent
    upon the cost and availability of raw materials and energy,
    which are subject to price fluctuations, and the ability to
    control or pass on costs of raw materials and labor.


 


    Inflationary and other increases in the costs of raw materials,
    labor and energy have occurred in the past and are expected to
    recur, and our performance depends in part on our ability to
    pass on these cost increases to customers in our selling prices
    for products, and to effect improvements in productivity. Also,
    it is important that we are able to obtain timely delivery of
    materials, equipment, and packaging from suppliers, and to make
    timely delivery to customers. A disruption to our supply chain
    could adversely affect our sales and profitability.


 



    Slower
    growth in key markets could adversely affect our
    profitability.


 


    Our business could be negatively impacted by a decline in key
    end use markets or applications for our products. Our overall
    performance will be influenced by these markets.


 



    Our
    customers are widely diversified, but in certain portions of our
    business, industry concentration has increased the importance
    and decreased the number of significant customers.


 


    In particular, sales of our office and consumer products in the
    United States are concentrated in a few major customers,
    principally office product superstores, mass market distributors
    and wholesalers. The business risk associated with this
    concentration, including increased credit risks for these and
    other customers, and the possibility of related bad debt
    write-offs, could negatively affect our margins and profits.


 



    Our
    ability to develop and successfully market new products and
    applications is important in maintaining growth.


 


    The timely introduction of new products and improvements in
    current products helps determine our success. Research and
    development for each of our operating segments is complex and
    uncertain and requires innovation and anticipation of market
    trends. We could focus on products that ultimately are not
    accepted by customers or we could suffer delays in production or
    launch of new products that could compromise our competitive
    position in such product markets.


 



    Infringing
    intellectual property rights of third parties or inadequately
    acquiring or protecting our intellectual property and patents
    could harm our ability to compete or grow.


 


    Because our products involve complex technology and chemistry,
    we are from time to time involved in litigation involving
    patents and other intellectual property. Parties have filed, and
    in the future may file, claims against us alleging that we have
    infringed their intellectual property rights. If we are held
    liable for infringement, we could be required to pay damages or
    obtain licenses or to cease making or selling certain products.
    There can be no assurance that licenses will be available at
    all, or will be available on commercially reasonable terms, and
    the cost to defend these claims, whether or not meritorious, or
    to develop new technology could be significant and could divert
    the attention of management.


 


    We also could have our intellectual property infringed. We
    attempt to protect and restrict access to our intellectual
    property and proprietary information, by relying on the patent,
    trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the U.S. and
    other countries, as well as on nondisclosure agreements, but it
    may be possible for a third party to obtain our information
    without our authorization, to independently develop similar
    technologies, or to breach non-disclosure agreement entered into
    with us. In addition, many of the countries in which we operate
    do not have intellectual property laws that protect proprietary
    rights as fully as in the U.S. The use of our intellectual
    property by someone else without our authorization could reduce
    or eliminate certain competitive advantage we have, cause us



    
    7



Table of Contents




    to lose sales, or otherwise harm our business. Further, the
    costs involved to protect our intellectual property rights could
    adversely impact our profitability.


 


    We have obtained and applied for some U.S. and foreign
    trademark registrations and patents, and will continue to
    evaluate whether to register additional trademarks and seek
    patents as appropriate. We cannot guarantee that any of the
    pending applications will be approved by the applicable
    government authorities. Further, we cannot assure that the
    validity of our patents or our trademarks will not be
    challenged. In addition, third parties might be able to develop
    competing products using technology that avoids our patents.


 



    The
    amount of various taxes we pay is subject to ongoing compliance
    requirements and audits by federal, state and foreign tax
    authorities.


 


    Our estimate of the potential outcome of uncertain tax issues is
    subject to our assessment of relevant risks, facts, and
    circumstances existing at that time. We use these assessments to
    determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and
    other tax-related accounts. Our future results may include
    favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax
    liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved,
    which may impact our effective tax rate
    and/or our
    financial results. We are in the process of reviewing
    Paxar’s compliance with such requirements.


 



    We have
    deferred tax assets that we may not be able to use under certain
    circumstances.


 


    If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in
    certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in
    the time period within which the underlying temporary
    differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required
    to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax
    assets. This would result in an increase in our effective tax
    rate, and an adverse effect on our future operating results. In
    addition, changes in statutory tax rates may also change our
    deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable
    or unfavorable impact on our effective tax rate. Our deferred
    tax assets may also be impacted by new legislation or regulation.


 



    The level
    of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the
    actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect
    our earnings in future periods. Changes in accounting standards
    and government regulations could also affect our pension and
    postretirement plan expense and funding requirements.


 


    Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations
    and the fair value of plan assets for our pension plan and other
    postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us in consultation
    with outside actuaries. In the event that we determine that
    changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the
    discount rate, expected long term rate of return, or health care
    costs, our future pension and projected postretirement benefit
    expenses could increase or decrease. Due to changing market
    conditions or changes in the participant population, the
    actuarial assumptions that we use may differ from actual
    results, which could have a significant impact on our pension
    and postretirement liability and related costs. Funding
    obligations are determined based on the value of assets and
    liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant
    government regulations for each plan. Future pension funding
    requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be
    affected by legislation enacted by the relevant governmental
    authorities.


 



    In order
    for us to remain competitive, it is important to recruit and
    retain highly-skilled employees. We also utilize various
    outsourcing arrangements for certain services.


 


    There is significant competition to recruit and retain skilled
    employees. Due to rapid expansion in certain markets and the
    ongoing productivity efforts and recent employee reductions, it
    may be difficult for us to retain and recruit sufficient numbers
    of highly-skilled employees. We have outsourced certain services
    to multiple third-party service providers, and may outsource
    other services in the future to achieve cost savings and
    efficiencies. Service provider delays, resource availability,
    business issues or errors may lead to disruption in our
    businesses
    and/or
    increased costs. If we do not effectively develop, implement and
    manage outsourcing strategies, third-party providers do not
    perform effectively and timely, or we experience problems with a
    transition, we may experience disruption in our businesses, we
    may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings, and we may
    have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such
    service providers.



    
    8



Table of Contents





    We need
    to comply with many environmental, health, and safety
    laws.


 


    Due to the nature of our business, we are subject to
    environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations,
    including those related to the disposal of hazardous waste from
    our manufacturing processes. Compliance with existing and future
    environmental, health and safety laws could subject us to future
    costs or liabilities; impact our production capabilities;
    constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities; and
    generally impact our financial performance. We have accrued
    liabilities for environmental
    clean-up
    sites, including sites for which governmental agencies have
    designated us as a potentially responsible party, where it is
    probable that a loss will be incurred and the cost or amount of
    loss can be reasonably estimated. We are in the process of
    reviewing the environmental matters related to Paxar. However,
    because of the uncertainties associated with environmental
    assessment and remediation activities, future expense to
    remediate currently identified sites and other sites, which
    could be identified in the future for cleanup, could be higher
    than the liability currently accrued.


 



    In order
    to mitigate risk, it is important that we obtain various types
    of insurance.


 


    We have various types of insurance including property, workers
    compensation and general liability. Insurance costs can be
    unpredictable and may adversely impact our financial results.


 



    Significant
    disruption to our information technology infrastructure could
    adversely impact our operations, sales, customer relations, and
    financial results.


 


    We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of a large
    and complex information technology infrastructure to link our
    worldwide divisions. Like other information technology systems,
    ours is susceptible to damage or interruptions caused by
    obsolescence, natural disasters, power failures, viruses and
    security breaches. We upgrade and install new systems, which if
    installed or programmed incorrectly or if installation is
    delayed, could cause significant disruptions. We have
    implemented certain measures to reduce our risk related to
    system and network disruptions, but if a disruption occurs, we
    could incur losses and costs for remediation and interruption of
    operations. Additionally, we rely on services provided by
    third-party vendors for a significant portion of our information
    technology support, development and implementation.


 



    Our share
    price may be volatile.


 


    Our stock price is influenced by changes in the overall stock
    market and demand for equity securities in general. Other
    factors, including market expectations for our performance, the
    level of perceived growth of our industries, and announcements
    concerning industry investigations, have also impacted our share
    price. There can be no assurance that our stock price will be
    less volatile in the future.


 



    If our
    credit ratings are downgraded, we may have difficulty obtaining
    acceptable short- and long-term financing from capital
    markets.


 


    Credit ratings are a significant factor in our ability to raise
    short-term and long-term financing. The credit ratings assigned
    to us also impact the interest rates on our commercial paper and
    other borrowings. If our credit ratings were further downgraded,
    our financial flexibility could decrease and the cost to borrow
    would increase.


 



    Our
    reputation, sales, and earnings could be affected adversely if
    the quality of our products and services does not meet customer
    expectations.


 


    There are occasions when we manufacture products with quality
    issues resulting from defective materials, manufacturing,
    packaging or design. Many of these issues are discovered before
    shipping but this causes delays in shipping, delays in the
    manufacturing process, and occasionally cancelled orders. When
    the issues are discovered after shipment, this causes additional
    shipping costs, possible discounts, possible refunds, and
    potential loss of future sales. Both pre-shipping and
    post-shipping quality issues can result in financial
    consequences along with a negative impact on our reputation.



    
    9



Table of Contents





    Some of
    our products are sold by third parties.


 


    Our products are not only sold by us, but by third party
    distributors and retailers as well. Some of our distributors
    also market products that compete with our products. Changes in
    the financial or business condition or purchasing decisions of
    these third parties or their customers could affect our sales
    and profitability.


 



    We
    outsource some of our manufacturing. If there are significant
    changes in the quality control or financial or business
    condition of these outsourced manufacturers, our business could
    be negatively impacted.


 


    We manufacture most of our products, but we also use third-party
    manufacturers, for example, for specialty jobs or capacity
    overflow. Outsourced manufacturers reduce our ability to prevent
    product quality issues, late deliveries, customer
    dissatisfaction and compliance with customer requirements for
    labor standards. Because of possible quality issues and customer
    dissatisfaction, outsourced manufacturers could have an adverse
    effect on our business and financial results.


 


    The risks described above are not exclusive. Additional risks
    not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be
    less significant may also have an adverse effect on us. If any
    of the above risks actually occur, our business, results of
    operations, cash flows or financial condition could suffer,
    which might cause the value of our securities to decline.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B