Item 1A) and “Legal
    Proceedings” (Part I, Item 3) below,
    including those normally attending international and domestic
    operations, such as changes in economic or political conditions,
    currency fluctuations, exchange control regulations and the
    effect of international relations and domestic affairs of
    foreign countries on the conduct of business, legal proceedings,
    and the availability and pricing of raw materials.


 


    No single customer represented 10% or more of our net sales or
    trade receivables at year end 2009 and 2008. However, our ten
    largest customers at year end 2009 represented approximately 13%
    of trade accounts receivable and consisted of six customers of
    our Office and Consumer Products segment and four customers of
    our Pressure-sensitive Materials segment. The financial position
    and operations of these customers are monitored on an ongoing
    basis (see “Critical Accounting Policies and
    Estimates” of Part I, Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition”). United States export
    sales are not a significant part of our business. Backlogs are
    not considered material in the industries in which we compete.




    
    1



Table of Contents





    Our reporting segments are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Pressure-sensitive Materials




 



     
        • 

    
    Retail Information Services




 



     
        • 

    
    Office and Consumer Products





 


    In addition to our reporting segments, we have other specialty
    converting businesses comprised of several businesses that
    produce specialty tapes and highly engineered labels including
    RFID inlays and labels, and other converted products.


 


    In 2007, we completed the acquisition of Paxar Corporation
    (“Paxar”), a global leader in retail tag, ticketing,
    and branding systems. In 2008, we completed the acquisition of
    DM Label Group (“DM Label”), a manufacturer of labels,
    tags and tickets for retail and apparel applications, including
    woven labels. These operations are included in the
    Company’s Retail Information Services segment. See Retail
    Information Services Segment below for further information.


 


    In 2009, the Pressure-sensitive Materials segment contributed
    approximately 56% of our total sales, while the Retail
    Information Services and Office and Consumer Products segments
    contributed approximately 22% and 14%, respectively, of our
    total sales.


 


    In 2009, international operations constituted a significant
    portion of our business and represented approximately 66% of our
    sales. We expanded our operations, focusing particularly on
    Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. As of January 2,
    2010, we operated approximately 200 manufacturing and
    distribution facilities and employed approximately
    32,000 persons in over 60 countries, worldwide.


 



    Pressure-sensitive
    Materials Segment


 


    The Pressure-sensitive Materials segment manufactures and sells
    Fasson-, JAC-, and Avery Dennison-brand pressure-sensitive
    materials, Avery-brand graphics and graphic films, Avery
    Dennison-brand reflective products, and performance polymers.
    The business of this segment is generally not seasonal, except
    for certain outdoor graphics and reflective products and
    operations in Western Europe. Pressure-sensitive materials
    consist primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and
    fabrics, which are coated with Company-developed and purchased
    adhesives, and then laminated with specially coated backing
    papers and films. They are sold in roll or sheet form with
    either solid or patterned adhesive coatings, and are available
    in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and
    adhesive properties. These materials are sold to label printers
    and converters for labeling, decorating, fastening, electronic
    data processing and special applications on a worldwide basis.


 


    Graphic products consist of a variety of films and other
    products sold to the architectural, commercial sign, digital
    printing, and other related markets. We also sell durable cast
    and reflective films to the construction, automotive, and fleet
    transportation markets, scrim-reinforced vinyl material for
    banner sign applications, and reflective films for traffic and
    safety applications. Our graphic and reflective businesses are
    organized on a worldwide basis to serve the expanding commercial
    graphic arts market, including wide-format digital printing
    applications. We also manufacture and sell proprietary films
    that are used for outdoor, weather-resistant applications.


 


    Performance polymer products include a range of solvent- and
    emulsion-based acrylic polymer adhesives, protective coatings
    and other polymer additives for internal use, as well as for
    sale to other companies.


 


    In this segment, our larger competitors are Raflatac, a
    subsidiary of UPM-Kymmene; Morgan Adhesives
    (“MACtac”), a division of the Bemis Company; and 3M
    Company (for graphic and reflective products). Entry of
    competitors into the field of pressure-sensitive adhesives and
    materials may be limited by capital requirements and a need for
    technical knowledge. We believe that our relative size and scale
    of operations, our ability to serve our customers with a broad
    line of quality products and service programs, our distribution
    and brand strength, and the development and commercialization of
    new products are among the more significant factors in
    developing and maintaining our competitive position.




    
    2



Table of Contents






    Retail
    Information Services Segment


 


    The Retail Information Services segment designs, manufactures
    and sells a wide variety of price marking and brand
    identification products for retailers, apparel manufacturers,
    distributors and industrial customers on a worldwide basis. The
    business of this segment is seasonal, with higher volume
    generally in advance of the fall (back-to-school), spring, and
    holiday shipping periods.


 


    Our brand identification products include woven and printed
    labels, graphic tags and barcode tags. Our information
    management products include price tickets, carton labels, RFID
    tags and printing applications. Services include supply chain
    and security management, and retail store efficiency. Our
    solution enabling products include barcode printers, molded
    plastic fastening and application devices, and security
    management products.


 


    As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of Paxar and
    DM Label in 2007 and 2008, respectively. The combination of
    these businesses into this segment increases our presence in the
    retail information and brand identification market, broadens the
    range of our product and service capabilities, and improves our
    ability to meet customer demands for product innovation. The
    integration of these acquisitions into our operations has
    resulted in significant cost synergies.


 


    In this segment, some of our competitors are SML Group,
    Checkpoint Systems, Inc. and Shore to Shore, Inc. We believe
    that our ability to serve our customers with product innovation,
    a comprehensive brand identification and information management
    product line, our global distribution network, service, quality,
    and geographic reach are the key advantages in developing and
    maintaining our competitive position.


 



    Office
    and Consumer Products Segment


 


    The Office and Consumer Products segment manufactures and sells
    a wide range of Avery-brand printable media and other products.
    The business of this segment is seasonal, with higher volume
    related to the back-to-school season.


 


    This segment’s products are generally sold through office
    products superstores, mass market distributors, wholesalers and
    dealers. We manufacture and sell a wide range of Avery-brand
    products for office, school and home uses: printable media, such
    as copier, ink-jet and laser printer labels, related computer
    software, ink-jet and laser printer card and index products; and
    organization, filing and presentation products, such as binders,
    dividers and sheet protectors. We also offer a wide range of
    other stationery products, including writing instruments,
    markers, adhesives and specialty products under brand names such
    as Avery,
    Marks-A-Lot
    and HI-LITER. The extent of product offerings varies by
    geographic market.


 


    In this segment, our larger competitors are Acco Brands
    Corporation, Esselte Corporation and manufacturers of private
    brands. We believe that our brand strength, a large installed
    base of software that facilitates the use of many of our
    products, our ability to serve our customers with a broad line
    of quality products, and the development and commercialization
    of new products are among the more significant factors in
    developing and maintaining our competitive position.


 



    Other
    specialty converting businesses


 


    Other specialty converting businesses include our specialty
    tape, industrial, performance films and automotive products,
    business media, RFID and security printing businesses. These
    businesses manufacture and sell specialty tapes, highly
    engineered films, RFID inlays, pressure-sensitive postage stamps
    and other converted products. These businesses are generally not
    seasonal, except for certain automotive products due to plant
    shutdowns by automotive manufacturers.


 


    The specialty tape business manufactures and sells single- and
    double-coated tapes and adhesive transfer tapes for use in
    non-mechanical fastening, bonding and sealing systems in various
    industries, which are sold to industrial and medical original
    equipment manufacturers, converters, and disposable diaper
    producers worldwide. These products are sold in roll form and
    are available in a wide range of face materials, sizes,
    thicknesses and adhesive properties.




    
    3



Table of Contents





    Our industrial and automotive products businesses primarily
    consist of custom pressure-sensitive and heat-seal labels for
    the automotive and durable goods industries. These products are
    sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers.


 


    Our performance films business produces a variety of decorative
    and functional films, primarily for the automotive industry,
    that are designed for injection mold applications.


 


    Our business media business designs and markets customized
    products for printing and information workflow applications.


 


    Our RFID business manufactures RFID inlays and labels and makes
    use of our existing distribution by marketing to our label
    converting customers.


 


    Our security printing business manufactures and sells
    self-adhesive battery labels to a battery manufacturer, and
    self-adhesive stamps to the U.S. Postal Service.


 


    In addition, we sell specialty print-receptive films to the
    industrial label market, metallic dispersion products to the
    packaging industry, and proprietary wood grain and other
    patterns of film laminates for housing exteriors, and interior
    and exterior automotive applications.


 


    We compete with a number of diverse businesses. Our largest
    competitor for this group of businesses is 3M Company in the
    specialty tape business. Entry of competitors into these
    specialty converting businesses may be limited by capital and
    technical requirements. We believe that our ability to serve our
    customers with quality, cost effective products and the
    development and commercialization of new products are among the
    more significant factors in developing and maintaining our
    competitive position.


 



    Financial
    Information about Segments


 


    Certain financial information on our reporting segments and
    other specialty converting businesses for the three years ended
    January 2, 2010, which appear in Note 12,
    “Segment Information,” in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders,
    are incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Foreign
    Operations


 


    Certain financial information about our geographic areas for the
    three years ended January 2, 2010, which appear in
    Note 12, “Segment Information,” in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements of our 2009 Annual Report to
    Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    Many of our current products are the result of our research and
    development efforts. Our expenses for research, design and
    testing of new products and applications by our operating units
    and the Avery Research Center (the “Research Center”)
    located in Pasadena, California were $90.7 million in 2009,
    $94 million in 2008, and $95.5 million in 2007. A
    significant number of our research and development activities
    are conducted at the Research Center, which supports each of our
    operating segments.


 


    Our operating units’ research efforts are directed
    primarily toward developing new products and operating
    techniques and improving product performance, often in close
    association with customers. The Research Center supports our
    operating units’ patent and product development work, and
    focuses on improving adhesives, materials and coating processes,
    as well as related product applications and ventures. These
    efforts often focus on projects relating to printing and coating
    technologies, as well as adhesive, release and ink chemistries.


 



    Patents,
    Trademarks and Licenses


 


    The loss of individual patents or licenses would not be material
    to us taken as a whole, nor to our operating segments
    individually. Our principal trademarks are Avery, Fasson, Avery
    Dennison and the Company’s symbol. These trademarks are
    significant in the markets in which our products compete.




    
    4



Table of Contents






    Other
    Matters


 


    We use various raw materials, primarily paper, plastic films and
    resins, as well as specialty chemicals purchased from various
    commercial and industrial sources, which are subject to price
    fluctuations. Although shortages could occur from time to time,
    these raw materials are generally available.


 


    We produce a majority of our self-adhesive materials using
    water-based emulsion and hot-melt adhesive technologies.
    Emissions from these operations contain small amounts of
    volatile organic compounds, which can be regulated by agencies
    of federal, state, local and foreign governments. We continue to
    evaluate the use of alternative materials and technologies to
    minimize these emissions.


 


    A portion of our manufacturing process for self-adhesive
    materials utilizes certain organic solvents which, unless
    controlled, would be emitted into the atmosphere. Emissions of
    these substances are regulated by agencies of federal, state,
    local and foreign governments. In connection with the
    maintenance and acquisition of certain manufacturing equipment,
    we invest in solvent capture and control units to assist in
    regulating these emissions.


 


    We have developed adhesives and adhesive processing systems that
    minimize the use of solvents. Emulsion adhesives, hot-melt
    adhesives or solventless silicone systems have been installed in
    our facilities in Peachtree City, Georgia; Fort Wayne and
    Greenfield, Indiana; Painesville, Ohio; and Quakertown,
    Pennsylvania; as well as in other plants in the United States,
    Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, Colombia, France,
    Germany, India, Korea, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, the
    Netherlands, South Africa, Thailand and the United Kingdom.


 


    Based on current information, we do not believe that the cost of
    complying with applicable laws regulating the discharge of
    materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the
    protection of the environment, will have a material effect upon
    our capital expenditures, consolidated financial position or
    results of operations.


 


    For information regarding our potential responsibility for
    cleanup costs at certain hazardous waste sites, see “Legal
    Proceedings” (Part I, Item 3) and
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition” (Part II,
    Item 7).


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are available free of charge by way of a third-party
    hyperlink service through our Web site, www.averydennison.com
    (in the “Investors” section), as soon as reasonably
    practical after electronic filing with or furnishing of such
    material to the SEC. We make available at the Web site our
    (i) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (ii) Code of
    Ethics and Business Conduct, which applies to our directors and
    employees, (iii) Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive
    Officer and Senior Financial Officers, (iv) the charters of
    the Audit, Compensation and Executive Personnel, and Nominating
    and Governance Committees of our Board of Directors, and
    (v) Audit Committee Complaint Handling Procedures. These
    materials are also available free of charge in print to
    stockholders who request them by writing to: Secretary, Avery
    Dennison Corporation, 150 North Orange Grove Boulevard,
    Pasadena, California 91103.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Our ability to attain our goals and objectives is materially
    dependent on numerous factors and risks, including but not
    limited to, the following:


 



    Adverse
    conditions in the global economy have negatively impacted our
    customers, suppliers and our business.


 


    The United States, Europe and Asia have experienced significant
    declines in economic activity, including, among other things,
    reduced consumer spending, inflation, declines in asset
    valuations, diminished liquidity and credit availability,
    significant volatility in securities prices, rating downgrades,
    and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These
    economic developments have adversely affected our customers,
    suppliers and businesses similar to ours and have resulted in a
    variety of negative effects, such as reduction in revenues,
    increased costs, lower gross margin percentages, increased
    allowances for doubtful accounts
    and/or
    write-offs of accounts





    
    5



Table of Contents





    receivable, required recognition of impairments of capitalized
    assets, including goodwill and other intangibles, and such
    developments could have other material adverse effects on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows. We are not able to predict the duration and severity of
    adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other
    countries, and there can be no assurance that there will not be
    further declines in economic activity.


 



    The
    demand for our products is impacted by the effects of, and
    changes in, worldwide conditions, which could have an adverse
    effect on our sales and profitability.


 


    We have operations in over 60 countries and our domestic and
    international operations are strongly influenced by matters
    beyond our control, including changes in political, social,
    economic and labor conditions, tax laws (including
    U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), and international
    trade regulations (including tariffs), as well as the impact of
    these changes on the underlying demand for our products.


 



    We are
    affected by competitive conditions and customer preferences. If
    we do not compete effectively, we could lose market share and
    experience falling prices, adversely affecting our financial
    results.


 


    We are at risk that our competitors will expand in our key
    markets and implement new technologies making them more
    competitive. Competitors also may be able to offer additional
    products, services, lower prices, or other incentives that we
    cannot or will not offer or that will make our products less
    profitable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    compete successfully against current and future competitors.


 


    We also are at risk with regard to changes in customer order
    patterns, such as changes in the levels of inventory maintained
    by customers and the timing of customer purchases, which may be
    affected by announced price changes, changes in the
    Company’s incentive programs, or changes in the
    customer’s ability to achieve incentive goals. Changes in
    customers’ preferences for our products can also affect the
    demand for our products. Our business could be negatively
    impacted by a decline in demand for our products.


 



    As a
    manufacturer, our sales and profitability are dependent upon the
    cost and availability of raw materials and energy, which are
    subject to price fluctuations, and our ability to control or
    pass on costs of raw materials and labor.


 


    Inflationary and other increases in the costs of raw materials,
    labor and energy have occurred in the past and are expected to
    recur, and our performance depends in part on our ability to
    pass on these cost increases to customers through our selling
    prices for products and to effect improvements in productivity.
    Also, it is important for us to obtain timely delivery of
    materials, equipment, and other resources from suppliers, and to
    make timely delivery to customers. A disruption to our supply
    chain could adversely affect our sales and profitability.


 



    Foreign
    currency exchange rates, and fluctuations in those rates, may
    affect our sales and profitability.


 


    Approximately 66% of our sales are from international
    operations. Fluctuations in currencies can cause transaction,
    translation and other losses to us, which can negatively impact
    our sales and profitability. Margins on sales of our products in
    foreign countries could be materially and adversely affected by
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.


 


    We monitor our foreign currency exposures and may, from time to
    time, use hedging instruments to mitigate exposure to changes in
    foreign currencies. Hedging activities may only offset a portion
    of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in
    foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in
    place.


 



    Our
    future results may be affected if we generate less productivity
    improvement than projected.


 


    We intend to continue efforts to reduce costs in many of our
    operations through facility closures, headcount reductions,
    organizational restructuring, process standardization, and
    manufacturing relocation, by using a variety of tools, such as
    Lean Sigma and Kaizen events, to increase productivity. However,
    the success of these efforts is not assured and lower levels of
    productivity could reduce profitability. In addition, cost
    reduction actions could expose us to additional production risk
    and loss of sales.




    
    6



Table of Contents






    We have
    acquired companies and may continue to acquire other companies.
    Acquisitions come with significant risks and uncertainties,
    including those related to integration, technology and
    personnel.


 


    To grow our product lines and expand into new markets, we have
    made acquisitions and may do so in the future. For example, we
    acquired DM Label and Paxar in 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    Various risks, uncertainties, and costs are associated with the
    acquisitions. Effective integration of systems, controls,
    objectives, personnel, product lines, markets, customers,
    suppliers, and production facilities and cost savings can be
    difficult to achieve, and the results of integration actions are
    uncertain, particularly given our geographically dispersed
    organization. In addition, we may not be able to retain key
    personnel of an acquired company and we may not be able to
    successfully execute integration strategies or achieve projected
    performance targets for the business segment into which an
    acquired company is integrated. Both prior to and after the
    closing of a transaction, our business and those of the acquired
    company or companies may suffer due to uncertainty or diversion
    of management attention.


 


    There can be no assurance that any acquisitions will be
    successful and contribute to our profitability and we may not be
    able to identify new acquisition opportunities in the future.


 



    Declines
    or slower growth in key markets could adversely affect our
    profitability.


 


    Our business could be negatively impacted by declines or slower
    growth in key end-use markets. Our overall performance will be
    influenced by these markets.


 



    Our
    customer base is diversified, but in certain portions of our
    business, industry concentration has increased the importance,
    and decreased the number of, significant customers.


 


    Sales of our office and consumer products in the United States
    are concentrated in a few major customers, principally office
    product superstores, mass market distributors and wholesalers.
    The business risk associated with this concentration, including
    increased credit risks for these and other customers, and the
    possibility of related bad debt write-offs, could negatively
    affect our margins and profits.


 



    Possible
    increased difficulty in the collection of receivables as a
    result of economic conditions or other market factors could have
    a material effect on our results from operations and anticipated
    cash from operating activities.


 


    Although we have processes to administer credit granted to
    customers and believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is
    adequate, we have experienced, and in the future may experience,
    losses as a result of our inability to collect our accounts
    receivable. The financial difficulties of a customer could
    result in reduced business with that customer. We may also
    assume higher credit risk relating to receivables of a customer
    experiencing financial difficulty. If these developments occur,
    our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on
    our trade accounts receivable from major customers could
    substantially reduce our income and have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations and cash flows from
    operating activities.


 



    Our
    ability to develop and successfully market new products and
    applications is important for our business.


 


    The timely introduction of new products and improvements in
    current products helps determine our success. Research and
    development for each of our operating segments is complex and
    uncertain and requires innovation and anticipation of market
    trends. We could focus on products that ultimately are not
    accepted by customers or we could suffer delays in production or
    launch of new products that could compromise our competitive
    position in such product markets.


 



    For us to
    remain competitive, it is important to recruit and retain
    highly-skilled employees. We also utilize various outsourcing
    arrangements for certain services.


 


    There is significant competition to recruit and retain skilled
    employees. Due to expansion in certain markets and the ongoing
    productivity efforts and recent employee reductions, it may be
    difficult for us to recruit and retain sufficient numbers of
    highly-skilled employees.




    
    7



Table of Contents





    We have outsourced certain services to multiple third-party
    service providers, and may outsource other services in the
    future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. Service
    provider delays, resource availability, business issues or
    errors may lead to disruption in our businesses
    and/or
    increased costs. If we do not effectively develop, implement and
    manage outsourcing strategies, if third-party providers do not
    perform effectively and in a timely manner, or if we experience
    problems with a transition, we may not be able to achieve our
    expected cost savings, and may have to experience delays or
    incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service
    providers.


 



    Significant
    disruption to our information technology infrastructure could
    adversely impact our operations, sales, customer relations, and
    financial results.


 


    We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of a large
    and complex information technology infrastructure to link our
    worldwide divisions. Like other information technology systems,
    ours is susceptible to a number of factors including, but not
    limited to, damage or interruptions resulting from a variety of
    causes such as obsolescence, natural disasters, power failures,
    human error, viruses and data security breaches. We upgrade and
    install new systems, which, if installed or programmed
    incorrectly or on a delayed timeframe, could cause delays or
    cancellations of customer orders, impede the manufacture or
    shipment of products, or disrupt the processing of transactions.
    We have implemented certain measures to reduce our risk related
    to system and network disruptions, but if a disruption occurs,
    we could incur significant losses and remediation costs.


 


    Additionally, we rely on services provided by third-party
    vendors for a significant portion of our information technology
    support, development and implementation, which may make our
    operations vulnerable to such third parties’ failure to
    perform adequately.


 



    Miscalculation
    of our infrastructure needs could adversely impact our financial
    results.


 


    Projected requirements of our infrastructure investments may
    differ from actual levels if our volume growth is not as we
    anticipate. Our infrastructure investments generally are
    long-term in nature, and it is possible that these investments
    may not generate our expected return due to changes in the
    marketplace, failures to complete implementation, or other
    factors. Significant changes from our expected need for
    and/or
    returns on infrastructure investments could adversely affect our
    financial results.


 



    Our
    reputation, sales, and earnings could be affected adversely if
    the quality of our products and services does not meet customer
    expectations.


 


    There are occasions when we manufacture products with quality
    issues resulting from defective materials, manufacturing,
    packaging or design. Many of these issues are discovered before
    shipping, thus causing delays in shipping, delays in the
    manufacturing process, and occasionally cancelled orders. When
    issues are discovered after shipment, it can result in
    additional shipping costs, discounts, refunds, and loss of
    future sales. Both pre-shipping and post-shipping quality issues
    can result in adverse financial consequences and a negative
    impact on our reputation.


 



    Some of
    our products are sold by third parties.


 


    Our products are not sold only by us, but by third-party
    distributors and retailers as well. Some of our distributors
    also market products that compete with our products. Changes in
    the financial or business conditions or the purchasing decisions
    of these third parties or their customers could affect our sales
    and profitability.


 



    We
    outsource some of our manufacturing. If there are significant
    changes in the quality control or financial or business
    condition of these outsourced manufacturers, our business could
    be negatively impacted.


 


    We manufacture most of our products, but we also use third-party
    manufacturers, for example, for specialty jobs or capacity
    overflow. Outsourced manufacturers reduce our ability to prevent
    product quality issues, late deliveries, customer
    dissatisfaction and compliance with customer requirements for
    labor standards. Because of possible quality issues and customer
    dissatisfaction, outsourced manufacturers could have an adverse
    effect on our business or financial results.




    
    8



Table of Contents






    Changes
    in our business strategies may increase our costs and could
    affect the profitability of our businesses.


 


    As changes in our business environment occur, we may need to
    adjust our business strategies to meet these changes or we may
    find it otherwise necessary to restructure our operations or
    particular businesses. When these changes occur, we may incur
    costs to change our business strategy and may need to write down
    the value of selected assets. We also may need to invest in new
    businesses that have short-term returns that are negative or low
    and whose ultimate business prospects are uncertain. In any of
    these events, our costs may increase, our assets may be
    impaired, or our returns on new investments may be lower than
    prior to the change in strategy.


 



    Our
    substantial indebtedness could limit our ability to incur
    additional debt to fund business needs over the medium
    term.


 


    As a result of the acquisitions in 2008 and 2007, our debt
    levels had significantly increased. Although we have reduced
    debt since the time of these acquisitions and we anticipate
    further debt reduction over the medium term from the generation
    of cash flow in our underlying businesses, circumstances both
    within and beyond our control could cause debt levels to remain
    elevated for a longer timeframe than anticipated. These higher
    debt levels could negatively impact our ability to meet other
    business needs or opportunities and could result in higher
    financing costs.


 



    If our
    credit ratings are downgraded, we may have difficulty obtaining
    acceptable short- and long-term financing from the capital
    markets.


 


    Credit ratings are a significant factor in our ability to raise
    short-term and long-term financing. The credit ratings assigned
    to us also impact the interest rates on our commercial paper and
    other borrowings. If our credit ratings are downgraded, our
    financial flexibility could decrease and the cost to borrow
    would increase.


 



    The level
    of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the
    actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect
    our earnings and cash flows in future periods. Changes in
    accounting standards and government regulations could also
    affect our pension and postretirement plan expense and funding
    requirements.


 


    Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations
    and the fair value of plan assets for our pension plan and other
    postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us in consultation
    with outside actuaries. In the event that we determine that
    changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the
    discount rate, expected long term rate of return, or health care
    costs, our future pension and projected postretirement benefit
    expenses and funding requirements could increase or decrease.
    Because of changing market conditions or changes in the
    participant population, the actuarial assumptions that we use
    may differ from actual results, which could have a significant
    impact on our pension and postretirement liability and related
    costs. Funding obligations are determined based on the value of
    assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under
    relevant government regulations for each plan. Future pension
    funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could
    be affected by legislation enacted by the relevant governmental
    authorities.


 



    Our share
    price may be volatile.


 


    Changes in our stock price may affect our access to or cost of
    financing from capital markets and may affect our stock-based
    compensation arrangements, among other things. Our stock price,
    which has at times experienced substantial volatility, is
    influenced by changes in the overall stock market and demand for
    equity securities in general. Other factors, including current
    performance and market expectations for our future performance,
    the level of perceived growth of our industries, and other
    company-specific events, can also impact our share price. There
    can be no assurance that our stock price will be less volatile
    in the future.


 



    An
    impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively
    impact our consolidated results of operations and net
    worth.


 


    Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not
    amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually (or
    more frequently, if impairment indicators are present). In
    assessing the carrying value of goodwill, we





    
    9



Table of Contents





    make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins,
    growth rates, and discount rates based on our business plans,
    economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and
    marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to
    these factors and management’s judgment in applying these
    factors. Goodwill valuations have been calculated using an
    income approach based on the present value of future cash flows
    of each reporting unit. We could be required to evaluate the
    carrying value of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we
    experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant
    declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant
    component of our business or sustained market capitalization
    declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could
    result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. Impairment
    charges could substantially affect our financial results in the
    periods of such charges.


 



    Potential
    adverse developments in legal proceedings, investigations and
    other legal, compliance and regulatory matters, including those
    involving product and trade compliance, Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act issues and other matters, could impact us
    materially.


 


    Our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by
    an unfavorable outcome to pending or future litigation and
    investigations, including but not limited to, proceedings or
    lawsuits related to class actions seeking treble damages for
    alleged unlawful competitive practices, the impact of potential
    violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
    (“FCPA”), and other legal, compliance and regulatory
    matters, including, but not limited to, product, customs and
    trade compliance matters. See “Legal Proceedings”
    (Part  I, Item 3). There can be no assurance that
    any investigation or litigation outcome will be favorable.


 



    Infringing
    intellectual property rights of third parties or inadequately
    acquiring or protecting our intellectual property and patents
    could harm our ability to compete or grow.


 


    Because our products involve complex technology and chemistry,
    we are involved, from time to time, in litigation involving
    patents and other intellectual property. Parties have filed, and
    in the future may file, claims against us alleging that we have
    infringed their intellectual property rights. If we are held
    liable for infringement, we could be required to pay damages,
    obtain licenses or cease making or selling certain products.
    There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on
    commercially reasonable terms or will be available at all. The
    defense of these claims, whether or not meritorious, and the
    development of new technology could cause us to incur
    significant costs and could divert the attention of management.


 


    We also could have our intellectual property infringed. We
    attempt to protect and restrict access to our intellectual
    property and proprietary information, by relying on the patent,
    trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the U.S. and
    other countries, as well as on nondisclosure agreements.
    However, it may be possible for a third party to obtain our
    information without our authorization, to independently develop
    similar technologies, or to breach a non-disclosure agreement
    entered into with us. In addition, many of the countries in
    which we operate do not have intellectual property laws that
    protect proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. The use
    of our intellectual property by someone else without our
    authorization could reduce or eliminate certain competitive
    advantages we have, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our
    business. Further, the costs associated with protecting our
    intellectual property rights could adversely impact our
    profitability.


 


    We have obtained and applied for some U.S. and foreign
    trademark registrations and patents, and will continue to
    evaluate whether to register additional trademarks and seek
    patents as appropriate. We cannot guarantee that any of the
    pending applications will be approved by the applicable
    government authorities. Further, we cannot assure that the
    validity of our patents or our trademarks will not be
    challenged. In addition, third parties may be able to develop
    competing products using technology that avoids our patents.


 



    We need
    to comply with numerous environmental, health, and safety
    laws.


 


    Due to the nature of our business, we are subject to
    environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations,
    including those related to the disposal of hazardous waste from
    our manufacturing processes. Compliance with existing and future
    environmental, health and safety laws could subject us to future
    costs or liabilities; impact our production capabilities;
    constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities; and
    generally impact our financial performance. We have accrued
    liabilities for environmental
    clean-up
    sites, including sites for which governmental





    
    10



Table of Contents





    agencies have designated us as a potentially responsible party,
    where it is probable that a loss will be incurred and the cost
    or amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. However, because
    of the uncertainties associated with environmental assessment
    and remediation activities, future expense to remediate
    currently identified sites and other sites, which could be
    identified in the future for cleanup, could be higher than the
    liability currently accrued.


 



    We are
    subject to risks associated with the availability and coverage
    of various types of insurance.


 


    We have various types of insurance including property, workers
    compensation and general liability. Insurance costs can be
    unpredictable and may adversely impact our financial results. We
    retain some portion of our insurable risks, and therefore,
    unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.


 



    Proposed
    changes in U.S. tax legislation could materially impact our
    results.


 


    Currently, the majority of our revenue is generated from
    customers located outside of the U.S., and a substantial portion
    of our assets and our employees, are located outside of the
    U.S. We have not accrued income taxes and foreign
    withholding taxes on undistributed earnings for most
    non-U.S. subsidiaries,
    because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested
    in the operations of those subsidiaries. Certain proposals could
    substantially increase our tax expense, which would
    substantially reduce our income and have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations and cash flows from
    operating activities.


 



    Changes
    in our tax rates could affect our future results.


 


    Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in
    the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax
    rates, expirations of tax holidays, changes in the valuation of
    deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws and
    regulations or their interpretation. We are subject to the
    regular examination of our income tax returns by various tax
    authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse
    outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the
    adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance
    that the outcomes from these examinations will not have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating
    results.


 



    The
    amount of various taxes we pay is subject to ongoing compliance
    requirements and audits by federal, state and foreign tax
    authorities.


 


    Our estimate of the potential outcome of uncertain tax issues is
    subject to our assessment of relevant risks, facts, and
    circumstances existing at that time. We use these assessments to
    determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and
    other tax-related accounts. Our future results may include
    favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax
    liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved,
    which may impact our effective tax rate
    and/or our
    financial results.


 



    We have
    deferred tax assets that we may not be able to use under certain
    circumstances.


 


    If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in
    certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in
    the time period within which the underlying temporary
    differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required
    to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax
    assets. This would result in an increase in our effective tax
    rate, and would have an adverse effect on our future operating
    results. In addition, changes in statutory tax rates may change
    our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either
    favorable or unfavorable impact on our effective tax rate. Our
    deferred tax assets may also be impacted by new legislation or
    regulation.


 


    The risks described above are not exclusive. If any of the above
    risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash
    flows or financial condition could suffer, which might cause the
    value of our securities to decline.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B