ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



     This section highlights specific risks that could affect our Company and its businesses. You
should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that
the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company.
However, the risks and uncertainties our Company faces are not limited to those described below.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be
immaterial may also adversely affect our business.


     If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or the
circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur, these events or circumstances could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities.


     We face increasingly intense competitive pressure which may impact the prices we charge
merchants who accept our cards for payment for goods and services.


     Unlike our competitors in the payments industry that rely on high revolving credit balances to
drive profits, our business model is focused on Cardmember spending. Discount revenue, which
represents fees charged to merchants when Cardmembers use their Cards to purchase goods and
services on our network, is primarily driven by billed business volumes and is our largest single
revenue source. In recent years, we have been under market pressure to reduce merchant discount
rates and undertake other repricing initiatives. This pressure arises, in part, due to the
regulatory pressure on our competitors outside the United States, which has been increasing. If we
continue to experience a decline in the average merchant discount rate we charge merchants or are
unable to sustain premium merchant discount rates on our Cards without experiencing overall volume
growth or an increase in merchant coverage, our revenues and profitability could be materially and
adversely affected.


     We may not be able to increase consumer and business spending and borrowing on our payment
services products or manage the costs of our Cardmember benefits intended to stimulate such use.


     Our business is characterized by the high level of spending by our Cardmembers. Increasing
consumer and business spending and borrowing on our payment services products, particularly credit
and charge Cards and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products, and growth in Card lending
balances, depend in part on our ability to develop and issue new or


42




Table of Contents





enhanced Card and prepaid products and increase revenues from such products. It also depends
on our ability to attract new Cardmembers, reduce Cardmember attrition, increase merchant coverage,
and capture a greater share of customers’ total spending on Cards issued on our network, both in
the United States and in our international operations. One of the ways in which we attract new
Cardmembers is through our Membership Rewards program, as well as other Cardmember benefits. We
may not be able to cost effectively manage and expand Cardmember benefits, including containing the
growth of marketing, promotion and rewards expenses and Cardmember services expenses. If we are
not successful in increasing consumer and business spending or in managing the costs of our
Cardmember benefits, our revenues and profitability could be negatively affected.


     Our brand and reputation are key assets of our Company and our business may be affected by how
we are perceived in the marketplace.


     Our brand and its attributes are key assets of the Company. Our ability to attract and retain
consumer Cardmembers and corporate clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our
level of service, business practices and financial condition. Negative perceptions or publicity
regarding these matters could damage our reputation among existing and potential Cardmembers and
corporate clients, which could make it difficult for us to attract new Cardmembers and maintain
existing ones. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association,
negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny.
Although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative
perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.


     An increase in account data breaches and fraudulent activity using our Cards could lead to
reputational damage to our brand and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit
Cards.


     We and other third parties store Cardmember account information in connection with our charge
and credit Cards. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture various types
of information relating to Cardmembers’ accounts, including Membership Rewards accounts, to engage
in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. As outsourcing and specialization become a
more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties
involved in processing transactions using our Cards. If data breaches or fraud levels involving
our Cards were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention (such as mandatory card
reissuance) and reputational and financial damage to our brand, which could reduce the use and
acceptance of our Cards, and have a material adverse impact on our business.


     Our reengineering and other cost control initiatives may not prove successful and we may not
realize all or a significant portion of the benefits that we intended.


     We have regularly undertaken, and are currently considering undertaking, a variety of efforts
to reengineer our business operations in order to achieve cost savings and other benefits
(including the reinvestment of such savings in key areas such as marketing, promotion and rewards),
enhance revenue-generating opportunities and improve our operating expense to


43




Table of Contents





revenue ratio both in the short-term and over time. These efforts include cost management,
structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation,
outsourcing functions (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain
functions to lower cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the Internet
to save costs and planned staff reductions relating to certain of these reengineering actions. If
we do not successfully achieve these efforts in a timely manner or if we are not able to capitalize
on these efforts, we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits that we intended.
Failure to achieve these benefits could have a negative effect on our financial condition and
results of operations.


     We have agreements with business partners in a variety of industries, including the airline
industry, that represent a significant portion of our billed business. We are exposed to the risk
of downturns in these industries, including bankruptcies of our partners, and the possible
obligation to make payments to our partners.


     In the ordinary course of our business we enter into different types of contractual
arrangements with business partners in a variety of industries. For example, we have partnered
with Costco to offer cobranded cards for consumers and small businesses, and through our Membership
Rewards program we have partnered with businesses in many industries, most notably the airline
industry, to offer benefits to Cardmember participants. The airline industry represents a
significant portion of our billed business and in recent years has undergone bankruptcies,
restructurings and other similar events. In particular, we are exposed to risk under our
agreements with Delta Air Lines, which were restructured in connection with Delta’s filing for
protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. For additional information relating to the
agreements with Delta, see “Financial Review – Airline
Industry Matters” on page 60 of our 2006
Annual Report to Shareholders. In addition, under some types of these contractual arrangements,
upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, we may be obligated to make payments to certain
cobrand partners, merchants, vendors and customers. If we are not able to effectively manage the
triggering events, we could unexpectedly have to make payments to these partners, which could have
a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also exposed to
risk if we are not able to effectively manage bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and
other similar events that may occur in the airline industry or any other industry representing a
significant portion of our billed business, including any potential negative effects on particular
card products and services (and billed business generally) that could result from the actual or
perceived weakness of key business partners in such industries.


     Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective.


     We must effectively manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, merchant
bankruptcies and other credit trends and the rate of bankruptcies, which can affect spending on
card products, debt payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses that accept our
card products. Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. We are
exposed to both consumer credit risk, principally from Cardmember receivables, and our other
consumer lending activities and institutional credit risk from merchants and GNS partners. While
consumer credit risk is more closely linked to general economic conditions rather than
borrower-specific events like institutional credit risk, both expose us to a risk of loss. Third


44




Table of Contents





parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational
failure or other reasons. Country, regional and political risks are components of credit risk.
Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future write-offs and
may require us to increase our reserve for loan losses. Higher write-off rates and an increase in
our reserve for loan losses may adversely affect our profitability and the performance of our
securitizations, and may increase our cost of funds.


     Although we make estimates to provide for credit losses in our outstanding portfolio of loans
and receivables, these estimates may not be accurate. In addition, the information that we use in
managing our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete. Although we regularly review our credit
exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions
that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances
that are difficult to foresee or detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full
information with respect to the credit risks of our customers.


     We must also effectively manage market risk to which we are exposed. Market risk represents
the loss in value of portfolios and financial instruments due to adverse changes in market
variables. We are exposed to market risk from interest rates in our Card business. Changes in the
interest rates at which we borrow and lend money affect the value of our assets and liabilities.
If the rate of interest we pay on our borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn
on our loans, our net finance charge revenue, and consequently our net income, could fall.


     We must also accurately estimate the fair value of the assets in our investment portfolio and,
in particular, those investments that are not readily marketable, including the valuation of the
interest-only strip (commonly referred to as the I/O strip) arising from our securitization of
charge and credit Card receivables.


     Finally, we must also manage the operational risks to which we are exposed. We consider
operational risk to be the risk of not achieving our business objectives due to failed processes,
people or information systems, or from the external environment, such as natural disasters.
Operational risks include the risk that we may not accurately estimate the expense provision for
the cost of our Membership Rewards program, as well as the risk that we are unable to manage a
downturn in our businesses and/or negative changes in our and our subsidiaries’ credit ratings,
which could result in contingent payments under contracts, decreased liquidity and higher borrowing
costs.


     Although we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and
procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future, our hedging strategies and other risk
management techniques may not be fully effective. See “Financial Review – Risk Management” on
pages 49-53 of our 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders for a discussion of the policies and
procedures we use to identify, monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses.
Management of credit, market and operational risk requires, among other things, policies and
procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these
policies and procedures may not be fully effective.


45




Table of Contents



     Adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease revenue we receive
from our international operations.


     During 2006, over 30% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the United States.
We are exposed to foreign exchange risk from our international operations, and some of the revenue
we generate outside the United States is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if
the values of other currencies change relative to the U.S. dollar. Resulting exchange gains and
losses are included in our net income. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control
regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into
U.S. dollars. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could decrease the revenues
we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.


     Our access to financing, including securitizations, may be limited.


     In general, the amount, type and cost of our funding, including financing from other financial
institutions and the capital markets, directly impacts our expense in operating our business and
growing our assets and therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial results.


     A number of factors could make such financing more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on
any terms both domestically and internationally (where funding transactions may be on terms more or
less favorable than in the United States), including, but not limited to, financial results and
losses, changes within our organization, specific events that adversely impact our reputation,
changes in the activities of our business partners, disruptions in the capital markets, specific
events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counter-party availability, changes
affecting our assets, our corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, ratings
agencies’ actions, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax
environments governing our funding transactions. In addition, our ability to raise funds is
strongly affected by the general state of the United States and world economies, and may become
increasingly difficult due to economic and other factors. Also, we compete for funding with other
financial institutions, some of which are publicly traded. Competition from these institutions may
increase our cost of funds.


     In
addition, we periodically securitize Cardmember receivables and loans arising from our Card
business. Securitization involves the legal sale of beneficial interests in Cardmember receivables
and loan balances to a trust, which in turn issues securities to third-party investors
collateralized by the transferred receivables and loans, and our receipt of the proceeds from the
issuance of such securities. Although the markets for securitized credit and charge card
receivables and loans is large and well-established, if these markets experience difficulties, we
may be unable to securitize our receivables or to do so at favorable pricing levels. If we were
unable to continue to securitize our loan receivables at desired levels, we would use alternative
funding sources to meet our liquidity needs. If we were unable to find cost-effective and stable
alternatives, it could negatively impact our liquidity and potentially subject us to certain risks.
These risks would include an increase in our cost of funds, an increase in the allowance for loan


46




Table of Contents





losses and the provision for possible credit losses as more loans would remain on our
consolidated balance sheet, and lower loan growth.


     In addition, the occurrence of certain events may cause the securitization transactions to
amortize earlier than scheduled, which would accelerate the need for an alternate source of
funding.


     For a further discussion of our liquidity and funding needs, see “Financial Review – Funding
Strategy” on pages 43-48 in the 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders.


     If we are not able to invest successfully in, and compete at the leading edge of,
technological developments across all our businesses, our revenue and profitability could be
negatively affected.


     Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. In order to compete
in our industry, we need to continue to invest in technologies across all areas of our business,
including in transaction processing, data management, customer interactions and communications,
travel reservations systems, prepaid products, alternative payment mechanisms and risk management
and compliance systems. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and
potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new
services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these
new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently
use in our Cards and networks. In addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies
that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards or by resistance from
Cardmembers or merchants to such changes in addition to patent rights held by competitors or
others. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop or adapt to
technological changes and evolving industry standards.


     Our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition
worldwide in the payments industry.


     The payments industry is highly competitive and includes, in addition to credit card networks,
evolving alternative payment mechanisms and systems. Some of our competitors have developed, or
may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider
range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing
strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. We may not
continue to be able to compete effectively against these threats. In addition, our competitors may
be more efficient in introducing innovative products, programs and services than we are. As a
result, our revenue or profitability may decline.


     Banks, card issuers and card network operators generally are the subject of increasing global
regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens on our company and lead to
decreased transaction volumes through our network.


     We are subject to regulations that affect banks and the payments industry in the many
countries in which our charge and credit Cards are used and where we conduct banking


47




Table of Contents






activities. In particular, we are subject to numerous regulations applicable to financial
institutions in the United States and abroad. We are also subject to regulations as a provider of
services to financial institutions. Regulation of the payments industry has increased
significantly in recent years. For example, we are subject to the regulatory requirements of the
Patriot Act, which substantially broadened existing anti-money laundering legislation and the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the United States. The Patriot Act requires us to create and
implement comprehensive anti-money laundering programs that meet certain standards, including
expanded reporting and enhanced information gathering and record-keeping requirements, as well as
to perform due diligence on the third party institutions that issue Cards and/or acquire merchants
on our network. Increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or
restrictions with respect to the types of products and services that we may offer to consumers, the
countries in which our charge and credit Cards may be used and where we provide private and
correspondent banking services, and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept
our charge and credit Cards.


     The U.S. Congress is also presently considering legislative initiatives in the areas of
Internet gambling, Internet prescription drug purchases and copyright and trademark infringement,
among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on our Company, for example, imposing
requirements aimed at preventing the use of payment cards to unlawfully purchase prescription drugs
over the Internet. Many states are also considering a variety of similar legislation. Federal and
state law enforcement authorities have also contacted payment companies concerning these issues.
If implemented, these initiatives may require us to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee
various categories of charge and credit card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or
decreasing our transaction volumes. Various regulatory agencies are also considering regulations
covering identity theft, account management guidelines, disclosure rules, security, and marketing
that would impact us directly, in part due to increased scrutiny of our underwriting standards.
These new requirements may restrict our ability to issue charge and credit cards or partner with
other financial institutions, which could decrease our transaction volumes. In some circumstances,
new regulations could have the effect of limiting our ability to offer new types of charge or
credit cards or restricting our ability to offer existing Cards, such as stored value cards, which
could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth.


     In the United States, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and various Federal
Reserve Banks have been following developments on interchange and have held several conferences
focused on credit card interchange rates. While the Federal Reserve has expressed interest in
monitoring this issue, it has not indicated the need to regulate interchange rates in the United
States. In Congress, there have been several hearings on VISA and MasterCard interchange over the
last year. During 2006, there were also a number of bills proposed in individual state
legislatures seeking to impose caps on credit card interchange or to prohibit card companies from
charging merchant discount on the state tax portion of credit card purchases. None of those bills
were enacted. It is expected that Congressional hearings and similar proposed state legislation
will continue during 2007.


48




Table of Contents



     Regulators and Congress have also increased their scrutiny of our industry’s fees to its
customers. Any legislative or regulatory restrictions on our ability to price our services freely
could materially and adversely affect our transaction volume and revenues.


     Increased regulatory focus on our Company, such as in connection with the matters discussed
above, may increase our compliance costs or result in a reduction of transactions processed on our
networks, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance.


     Existing and proposed regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security
could decrease the number of charge and credit cards issued and could increase our costs.


     We are also subject to regulations related to privacy and data use and security in the
jurisdictions in which we do business, and we could be negatively impacted by these regulations.
For example, in the United States, we are subject to the Federal Trade Commission’s information
safeguards rule under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The rule requires that each financial
institution develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program
containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the
nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities, and the sensitivity of any customer
information at issue. The heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security, including
requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach, continues. In the United States,
there are a number of bills pending in Congress and there have been several Congressional hearings
to address these issues. Congress will likely consider data security/data breach legislation in
2007 that, if implemented, could affect our Company.


     In addition, approximately 34 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia have enacted
security breach legislation, requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a
security breach, and several other states are considering similar legislation. In 1995, the
European Parliament and Council passed European Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (commonly
referred to as the Data Protection Directive), which obligates the controller of an individual’s
personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data.
The Data Protection Directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection
in European Union member states. Any additional regulations in these areas may also increase our
costs to comply with such regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our
profitability.


     Global economic, political and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer
spending and in travel.


     Our business depends heavily upon the overall level of spending using our credit and charge
Cards, and we are not insulated from the effects of economic cycles. A sustained deterioration in
general economic conditions, particularly in the United States or Europe, or increases in interest
rates in key countries in which we operate, may adversely affect our financial performance by
reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving our charge and credit
Cards and result in increasing delinquencies and credit losses.


49




Table of Contents


Political or economic instability in certain regions or countries could also affect our
commercial or other lending activities, among other businesses, or result in restrictions on
convertibility of certain currencies. In addition, our travel network may be adversely affected by
world geopolitical and other conditions. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and
personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic downturns.



     Terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other catastrophic events may have a negative effect
on our business. Because of our proximity to the World Trade Center, our headquarters were damaged
as a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Similar events or other disasters or
catastrophic events in the future could have a negative effect on our businesses and
infrastructure, including our information technology systems. Because we derive a portion of our
revenues from travel-related spending, our business will be sensitive to safety concerns, and thus
may decline during periods in which travelers become concerned about safety issues or when travel
might involve health-related risks.


     If our global network systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions
efficiently or at all, our revenue or profitability would be materially reduced.


     Our transaction authorization, clearing and settlement systems may experience service
interruptions as a result of fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or
local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. A natural disaster or other problem
at our facilities could interrupt our services. Additionally, we rely on third-party service
providers for the timely transmission of information across our global network. If a service
provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of
natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could
interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands’ reliability and materially
reduce our revenue or profitability.


     We rely on third-party providers of various computer systems and other services integral to
the operations of our businesses. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our
business.


     We outsource to third-party providers many of our computer systems and other services that are
integral to the operations of our businesses. We are subject to the risk that certain decisions
are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may
adversely affect our activities. We cannot be certain that our third-party vendors will perform
their obligations as expected.


     Resolution of our unresolved SEC staff comment may result in a change in the presentation of
our reportable operating segments in our financial statements.


     Our business is comprised of three reportable operating segments, U.S. Card Services,
International Card & Global Commercial Services and Global Network & Merchant Services. In
connection with a review of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005,
the SEC requested certain information regarding the aggregation of our operating segments into the
reportable segments identified above. The Company and the SEC are


50




Table of Contents





continuing to discuss the Company’s segment reporting. If, as a result of these discussions,
it is concluded that a different reportable operating segment presentation (including the
disaggregation of certain operating segments) is appropriate, we would report our segments
differently in our filings with the SEC (although consolidated results would not be impacted). The
SEC may also require that we restate segment information that appears in the notes to our
consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and file an amendment
to this Form 10-K to reflect any such changes to the reportable operating segment presentation.


Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements



     We have made various statements in this report that may constitute “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements may also be made in our other reports filed with the SEC, in our press
releases and in other documents. In addition, from time to time, we, through our management, may
make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties, including those identified above, which could cause actual results to differ
materially from such statements. The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “optimistic,”
“intend,” “plan,” “aim,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “likely” and similar
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We caution you that the risk
factors described above are not exclusive. There may also be other risks that we are unable to
predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in
forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake
no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.





ITEM 1B