Item 1a.Risk FactorsThis filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. A variety of risks and uncertainties could cause Acuity Brands’ actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the Company’s forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information” included in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These risks include, without limitation:Risks Related to Economic FactorsGeneral business, political, and economic conditions, including the strength of the construction market, political events, or other factors may affect demand for the Company’s products and services, which could impact results of operations.The Company competes based on such factors as name recognition and reputation, service, product features, innovation, and price. In addition, the Company operates in a highly competitive environment that is influenced by a number of general business and economic factors, such as economic vitality, employment levels, credit availability, interest rates, trends in vacancy rates and rent values, energy costs, and commodity costs. Sales of lighting equipment depend significantly on the level of activity in new construction and renovation/retrofits. Declines in general economic activity, appropriations, and regulations, including tax policy, may negatively impact new construction and renovation projects, which in turn may impact demand for the Company’s product and service offerings. The impact of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Acuity Brands’ results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the cost or availability of raw materials, components, purchased finished goods, or services.The Company utilizes a variety of raw materials and components in its production process including steel, aluminum, lamps, certain rare earth materials, LEDs, LED drivers, ballasts, wire, electronic components, power supplies, petroleum-based by-products, natural gas, and copper. The Company also sources certain finished goods externally.  Future increases in the costs of these items could adversely affect profitability, as there can be no assurance that future price increases will be successfully passed through to customers.  The Company generally sources these goods from a number of suppliers. However, there are a limited number of suppliers for certain components and certain purchased finished goods, which on a limited basis results in sole-source supplier situations. Disruptions in the supply of those items could negatively impact the Company’s performance. In addition, the Company's ongoing efforts to improve the cost effectiveness of its products and services may result in a reduction in the number of its suppliers, and in turn, increased risk associated with reliance on a single or limited number of suppliers.  Furthermore, volatility in certain commodities, such as oil, impacts all suppliers and, therefore, may cause the Company to experience significant price increases from time to time regardless of the number and availability of suppliers. Profitability and volume could be negatively impacted by limitations inherent within the supply chain of certain of these component parts, including competitive, governmental, and legal limitations, natural disasters, and other events that could impact both supply and price. Additionally, the Company is dependent on certain service providers for key operational functions.  While there are a number of suppliers of these services, the cost to change service providers and set up new processes could be significant.  Variability in cost and availability of raw materials, components, purchased finished goods, or services could adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Tight credit conditions could impair the ability of the Company and other industry parties to effectively access capital markets, which could negatively impact the Company’s capital position and demand for the Company’s products and services.The impact of tight credit conditions could impair the ability of real estate developers, property owners, and contractors to effectively access capital markets or obtain reasonable costs of capital on borrowed funds, resulting in depressed levels of construction and renovation projects. The inability of these constituents to borrow money to fund construction and renovation projects may reduce the demand for the Company’s products and services and could adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.In addition to the impact on customers, tight credit conditions could impair the Company’s ability to effectively access capital. This could impair the Company’s ability to refinance debt as it becomes due or to obtain additional credit, if needed. The inability to effectively access capital markets could adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.The market price and trading volume of the Company’s shares may be volatile.The market price of the Company’s common shares could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including reasons unrelated to the Company’s specific performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by 8Table of Contentscustomers, competitors, or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as general global economic, industry, and political conditions. To the extent that other large companies within the Company’s industry experience declines in share price, the Company’s share price may decline as well. In addition, when the market price of a company’s shares drops significantly, shareholders could institute securities class action lawsuits against the Company. Such a lawsuit could cause the Company to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of the Company’s management and other resources.Risks Related to the Company's StrategyAcuity Brand’s results may be adversely affected by the Company’s inability to maintain pricing.Aggressive pricing actions by competitors may affect the Company’s ability to achieve desired revenue growth and profitability levels under its current pricing strategies. The Company may also decide to lower pricing to match the competition. Additionally, the Company may not be able to increase prices to cover rising costs of components and raw materials. Even if the Company were able to increase prices to cover costs, competitive pricing pressures may not allow the Company to pass on any more than the cost increases. Alternatively, if component and raw material costs were to decline, the marketplace may not allow the Company to hold prices at their current levels, which could negatively impact net sales, profitability, and cash flows.Acuity Brands may experience difficulties in streamlining activities which could impact shipments to customers, product quality, and the ability to realize the expected savings from streamlining actions.The Company will benefit from its ongoing programs to streamline operations, including the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and the reduction of overhead costs, only to the extent that it can effectively leverage assets, personnel, and operating processes in the transition of production between manufacturing facilities. Uncertainty is inherent within the facility consolidation process and unforeseen circumstances could offset the anticipated benefits, disrupt service to customers, and impact product quality.The Company’s inability to effectively introduce new products could adversely affect its ability to compete and its operating performance.Continual introductions of new products and solutions, services, and technologies, enhancement of existing products and services, and effective servicing of customers are key to the Company’s competitive strategy. The success of new product and solution introductions depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Company’s ability to manage the risks associated with product life cycles, such as new products and production capabilities, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels to support anticipated product manufacturing and demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot fully predict the ultimate effect of new product introductions and transitions on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Acuity Brands may pursue future growth through strategic acquisitions and alliances, which may not yield anticipated benefits.The Company has strengthened its business through strategic acquisitions and alliances and may continue to do so as opportunities arise in the future. The Company will benefit from such activity only to the extent that it can effectively leverage and integrate the assets of the acquired businesses and alliances, including, but not limited to, personnel, technology, and operating processes. Uncertainty is inherent within the acquisition and alliance process and unforeseen circumstances arising from recent and future acquisitions or alliances could offset the anticipated benefits. In addition, unanticipated events, negative revisions to valuation assumptions and estimates, and/or difficulties in attaining synergies, among other factors, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to recover initial and subsequent investments, particularly those related to acquired goodwill and intangible assets. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.  In addition, an investment in acquisitions or alliances may limit the Company's ability to invest in other activities, which could be more profitable or advantageous.The risks associated with the inability to effectively execute its strategies could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.Various uncertainties and risks are associated with the implementation of a number of aspects of the Company’s global business strategy, including but not limited to new product development, the development, marketing, and selling of lighting solutions, effective integration of acquisitions, and the development of production capacity related to components such as LED drivers. Those uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to: diversion of management’s attention; difficulty in retaining or attracting employees; negative impact on relationships with distributors and customers; obsolescence of current products and slow new product development; additional streamlining efforts; inability to produce certain components with quality, performance, 9Table of Contentsand cost attributes equal to or better than provided by other component manufacturers; and unforeseen difficulties in the implementation of the management operating structure. Problems with strategy execution could offset anticipated benefits, disrupt service to customers, and impact product quality as well as adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.Risks Related to the Company's OperationsTechnological developments and increased competition could affect the Company’s operating profit margins and sales volume.The Company competes in an industry where technology and innovation play major roles in the competitive landscape. The Company is highly engaged in the investigation, development, and implementation of new technologies and services. Securing key partnerships and alliances as well as employee talent, including having access to technologies, services, and solutions developed by others, and obtaining appropriate patents play a significant role in protecting the Company’s intellectual property and development activities. Additionally, the continual development of new technologies (e.g., LED, OLED, lamp/ballast systems, drivers, lighting controls systems, etc.) by existing and new source suppliers — including non-traditional competitors with significant resources — looking for either direct market access or partnerships with competing large manufacturers, coupled with significant associated exclusivity and/or patent activity, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to sustain operating profit margins and desirable levels of sales volume. Also, certain key suppliers of components compete with the Company and could choose to cease supplying the Company, which could temporarily disrupt production by the Company until alternative supplier relationships are established. In addition, there have been a growing number of new competitors, from small startup companies to global consumer electronics companies, offering solid-state (primarily LED) lighting solutions to compete with traditional lighting providers. Certain global and more diversified electrical manufacturers may be able to obtain a competitive advantage over the Company by offering broader and more integrated electrical solutions utilizing electrical, lighting, and building automation products, and small startup companies may offer more localized product sales and support services within individual regions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Acuity Brands may be unable to sustain significant customer and/or channel partner relationships.Relationships with customers, including The Home Depot which historically has represented approximately 10% or more of the Company’s total net sales, are directly impacted by the Company’s ability to deliver quality products and services. The loss of or a substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by The Home Depot could harm the Company’s sales, profitability, and cash flows. The Company also has relationships with channel partners such as electrical distributors and independent sales agencies. While the Company has experienced positive, and in most cases long-term, relationships with these channel partners, the loss of a number of these channel partners or a substantial decrease in the volume of purchases from a major channel partner or a group of channel partners could adversely affect the Company’s sales, profitability, and cash flows.Acuity Brands could be adversely affected by disruptions of its operations.The breakdown of equipment or other events, including labor disputes, strikes, pandemics, cyber attacks, or catastrophic events such as war or natural disasters, leading to production interruptions in the Company’s or one or more of its suppliers’ facilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results and cash flows. Approximately 53% of the Company’s finished products are manufactured in Mexico, a country that periodically experiences heightened civil unrest which could also disrupt supply of products to or from these facilities. Further, because many of the Company’s customers are to varying degrees dependent on planned deliveries from the Company’s facilities, those customers that have to reschedule their own production or delay opening a facility due to the Company’s missed deliveries could pursue financial claims against the Company. The Company may incur costs to correct any of these problems in addition to facing claims from customers. Further, the Company’s reputation among actual and potential customers may be harmed and result in a loss of business. While the Company has developed business continuity plans, including alternative capacity, to support responses to such events or disruptions and maintains insurance policies covering, among other things, physical damage and business interruptions, these policies may not cover all losses. The Company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, loss of customers, and substantial losses in operational capacity, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Failure of a Company operating or information system or a compromise of security with respect to an operating or information system or portable electronic device could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition or the effectiveness of internal controls over operations and financial reporting.The Company is highly dependent on various software and automated systems to record and process operational and financial transactions. The Company could experience a failure of one or more of these software and automated systems or could fail to complete all necessary data reconciliation or other conversion controls when implementing a new software system. The Company 10Table of Contentscould also experience a compromise of its security due to many reasons, including technical system flaws, clerical, data input or record-keeping errors, or tampering or manipulation of its systems by employees or unauthorized third parties. Information security risks also exist with respect to the use of portable electronic devices, such as laptops and smartphones, which are particularly vulnerable to loss and theft. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of any of these systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, cyber attacks, epidemics, computer viruses, and electrical/telecommunications outages). All of these risks are also applicable where the Company relies on outside vendors to provide services, which may operate in a cloud environment.  The Company is dependent on the third-party vendors to operate secure and reliable systems which may include data transfers over the internet.   The Company also maintains information technology to support lighting controls systems in certain of its customer offerings, which are integral to the functionality of those integrated systems.  In addition to the risks noted above, there are other risks associated with these customer offerings. Customers may be installing software on their networks and utilizing portable electronic devices, which may have security protocol variations that are outside of the Company’s control and could result in a data security compromise.  The Company and certain of its third-party vendors may receive and store personal information in connection with human resources operations, customer offerings, and other aspects of the business.  A material network breach in the security of these systems could include the theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or employee and customer information. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to the Company's data, or an inappropriate disclosure of confidential or customer or employee information, it could cause significant damage to the Company's reputation, affect relationships with the Company's customers and employees, lead to claims against the Company, and ultimately harm the Company's business. In addition, the Company may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.Operating system failures, ineffective system implementation or disruptions, or the compromise of security with respect to internal or external operating systems or portable electronic devices could subject the Company to liability claims, harm the Company’s reputation, interrupt the Company’s operations, disrupt customer operations, and adversely affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.The inability to attract and retain talented employees and/or a loss of key employees could adversely impact the effectiveness of the Company’s operations.The Company relies upon the knowledge and experience of employees involved in functions throughout the organization that require technical expertise and knowledge of the industry. An inability to attract and retain such employees could adversely impact the Company’s ability to execute key operational functions and could adversely affect the Company’s operations.There are inherent risks in our solutions and services businesses.Risks inherent in the sale of solutions and services include assuming greater responsibility for successfully delivering projects that meet a particular customer specification, including defining and controlling contract scope and timing, efficiently executing projects, and managing the performance and quality of the Company’s subcontractors and suppliers.  If the Company is unable to manage and mitigate these risks, the Company could incur liabilities and other losses that would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory MattersAcuity Brands is subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, and the Company may be exposed to substantial environmental, health, and safety costs and liabilities.The Company is subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These laws and regulations impose increasingly stringent environmental, health, and safety protection standards and permitting requirements regarding, among other things, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment, and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, the remediation of environmental contamination, and working conditions for the Company’s employees. Some environmental laws, such as Superfund, the Clean Water Act, and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions world-wide, impose joint and several liability for the cost of environmental remediation, natural resource damages, third party claims, and other expenses, without regard to the fault or the legality of the original conduct, on those persons who contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. The Company may also be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to energy, climate change, geopolitical, or similar concerns. These laws may impact the sourcing of raw materials and the manufacture and distribution of the Company’s products and place restrictions and other requirements on the products the Company can sell in certain geographical locations.The costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control capabilities, have been, and in the future could be, significant. In addition, 11Table of Contentsthese laws and regulations may result in substantial environmental liabilities associated with divested assets, third party locations, and past activities. The Company establishes reserves for environmental remediation activities and liabilities where appropriate. However, the cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto) cannot be predicted with certainty, and these reserves may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of potential changes in environmental conditions, changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, the Company’s potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not previously been established, and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities and could require significant capital and other ongoing expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at the Company’s properties could adversely affect its ability to sell a property, receive full value for a property, or use a property as collateral for a loan.Acuity Brands may develop unexpected legal contingencies or matters that exceed insurance coverage.The Company is subject to and in the future may be subject to various claims, including legal claims arising in the normal course of business, which may include without limitation employment claims, product recall or personal injury claims resulting from the use of our products or exposure to hazardous materials, contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, and product liability claims. The Company is insured up to specified limits for certain types of losses with a self-insurance retention per occurrence, including product liability claims, and is fully self-insured for certain other types of losses, including environmental, product recall, warranties, commercial disputes, and patent infringement. The Company establishes reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher or lower than the level of insurance coverage held by the Company and/or the amounts reserved for such claims. In the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolutions of such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The Company’s insurance coverage is negotiated on an annual basis, and insurance policies in the future may have coverage exclusions that could cause claim-related costs to rise.If Acuity Brands’ products are improperly designed, manufactured, packaged, or labeled, the Company may need to recall those items, may have increased warranty costs, and could be the target of product liability claims.The Company may need to recall products if they are improperly designed, manufactured, packaged, or labeled, and the Company does not maintain insurance for such recall events. Many of the Company's products and solutions have become more complex in recent years and include more sophisticated and sensitive electronic components.  The Company has increasingly manufactured certain of those components and products in its own facilities. The Company has previously initiated product recalls as a result of potentially faulty components, assembly, installation, and packaging of its products, and widespread product recalls could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, penalties, and lost sales due to the unavailability of a product for a period of time. In addition, products developed by the Company that incorporate new technologies, such as LED technology, generally provide for more extensive warranty protection which may result in higher costs if warranty claims on these products are higher than historical amounts. The Company may also be liable if the use of any of its products causes harm, and could suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against the Company in excess of its insurance limits. The Company may not be able to obtain indemnity or reimbursement from its suppliers or other third parties for the warranty costs or liabilities associated with its products.  A significant product recall, warranty claim, or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to the Company’s reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Failure to effectively estimate employer-sponsored health insurance premiums and incremental costs due to the Affordable Care Act could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.In March 2010, the United States federal government enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation, which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new taxes on health insurers, self-insured companies, and health care benefits. The legislation imposes implementation effective dates that began in 2010 and extend through 2020 with many of the changes requiring additional guidance and regulations from federal agencies. Possible adverse effects could include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability, and requirements for the Company to revise the ways in which healthcare and other benefits are provided to employees. To date, the Company has experienced increased costs related to such legislation; however, due to the phased-in nature of the implementation and the lack of interpretive guidance, the Company continues to monitor the potential impacts the health care reform legislation will have on the Company’s financial results.  Future costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.12Table of ContentsThe Company may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property.The Company owns certain patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and other intellectual property.  In addition, the Company continues to file patent applications, when appropriate.  The Company cannot be certain that others have not and will not infringe on its intellectual property rights; however, the Company seeks to establish and protect those rights, which could result in significant legal expenses and adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with new reporting requirements related to the use of conflict minerals, within the meaning of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, may result in additional expense, supply chain limitations, or loss of customers.   In July 2010, the United States federal government enacted the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which contained provisions that mandated the creation of rules by the SEC for public companies to ascertain the region of origin of conflict minerals (i.e., cassiterite, wolframite, coltan, and gold) used in the production of goods. In August 2012, the SEC adopted new rules requiring disclosures of conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The new rule requires companies to perform due diligence and disclose through the issuance of a report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. The new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of the Company’s products, including tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to source these products in the future. In addition, due to the complexity and sophistication of the Company's supply chain, compliance with the rules requires significant efforts from a cross-functional project team, including identifying and contacting  the Company's suppliers (who in turn may be required to contact their suppliers), compiling and documenting the findings, and possibly providing for an independent third party audit.  Therefore, costs attributable to compliance with the disclosure requirements of the SEC’s new rules will be incurred and could be material. In addition, pressure from customers for more information or due diligence could result in increased costs or potentially the loss of certain customers.  Jurisdictions other than the U.S. federal government, such as U.S. states and the European Union, may adopt similar rules and regulations, which could have different reporting requirements or timelines.  The costs of compliance, including those related to supply chain research, unexpected consequences to the Company’s reputation or customer relationships, the limited number of suppliers, and possible changes in the sourcing of these materials could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and cash flows.Risks Related to Other FactorsThe Company may be subject to risk in connection with third party relationships necessary to operate the Company's business.The Company utilizes strategic partners and third party relationships in order to operate and grow its business. For instance, the Company utilizes third parties for contract manufacturing for certain products, a portion of its sales function and some of its distribution requirements.  The Company cannot control the actions or performance of these third parties and therefore, cannot be certain that the Company or its end-users will be satisfied. Any future actions of or any failure to act by any third party on which the Company’s business relies could cause the Company to incur losses or interruptions in its operations and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.Acuity Brands is subject to risks related to operations outside the United States.The Company has substantial activities outside of the United States, including sourcing of products, materials, components and purchased finished goods. The Company’s operations, as well as those of key vendors, are therefore subject to regulatory, economic, political, military, and other events in countries where these operations are located, particularly Mexico. In addition to the risks that are common to both the Company’s domestic and international operations, the Company faces risks specifically related to its foreign operations, including but not limited to: foreign currency fluctuations; unstable political, social, regulatory, economic, financial, and market conditions; laws that prohibit improper payments to government officials such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act; potential for privatization and other confiscatory actions; trade restrictions and disruption; criminal activities; unforeseen increases in tariffs and taxes; corruption; and other changes in regulation in international jurisdictions that could result in substantial additional legal or compliance obligations for the Company. The Company continues to monitor conditions affecting its international locations, including potential changes in income from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar. Some of these risks, including but not limited to foreign exchange risk, violations of laws, and higher costs associated with changes in regulation, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.13Table of ContentsRisks related to the Company's defined benefit retirement plans may adversely impact results of operations and cash flows.Significant changes in actual investment returns on defined benefit plan assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and the amount of contributions the Company is required to make to the defined benefit plans in future periods. As the Company's defined benefit plan assets and liabilities are marked-to-market on an annual basis, large non-cash gains or losses could be recorded in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. In accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles the income or expense for the plans is calculated using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. Funding requirements for the defined benefit plans are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns, and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to defined benefit funding obligations. Unfavorable changes in these factors could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Item 1b