Item 1A. Risk Factors.


 








 

 


    6     Bank
    of America 2010
    




Table of Contents










    In addition, the ability of Bank of America Corporation and the
    Banks to pay dividends may be affected by the various minimum
    capital requirements and the capital and non-capital standards
    established under FDICIA, as described above. The right of Bank
    of America Corporation, our stockholders and our creditors to
    participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of our
    subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors
    of the respective subsidiaries.





    For additional information regarding the requirements relating
    to the payment of dividends, including the minimum capital
    requirements, see Note 15 – Shareholders’
    Equity and Note 18 – Regulatory
    Requirements and Restrictions to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.


 



    Source of
    Strength





    According to the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve Board
    policy, bank holding companies are expected to act as a source
    of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit
    resources to support each such subsidiary. This support may be
    required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to
    provide such support. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee
    provisions of the FDICIA, in the event of a loss suffered or
    anticipated by the FDIC – either as a result of
    default of a banking subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance
    provided to such a subsidiary in danger of default –
    the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be assessed for the
    FDIC’s loss, subject to certain exceptions.


 



    Deposit
    Insurance





    Deposits placed at the U.S. Banks are insured by the FDIC,
    subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the
    FDIC’s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act,
    FDIC insurance coverage limits were permanently increased to
    $250,000 per customer. The Financial Reform Act also provides
    for unlimited FDIC insurance coverage for non-interest bearing
    demand deposit accounts for a two-year period beginning on
    December 31, 2010 and ending on January 1, 2013. The
    FDIC administers the DIF, and all insured depository
    institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC that
    fund the DIF. The Financial Reform Act changed the methodology
    for calculating deposit insurance assessments from the amount of
    an insured depository institution’s domestic deposits to
    its total assets minus tangible capital. On February 7,
    2011 the FDIC issued a new regulation implementing revisions to
    the assessment system mandated by the Financial Reform Act. The
    new regulation will be effective April 1, 2011 and will be
    reflected in the June 30, 2011 FDIC fund balance and the
    invoices for assessments due September 30, 2011. As a
    result of the new regulations, we expect to incur higher annual
    deposit insurance assessments. We have identified potential
    mitigation actions, but they are in the early stages of
    development and we are not able to directly control the basis or
    the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC
    insurance or for other fees or assessment obligations imposed on
    financial institutions. Any future increases in required deposit
    insurance premiums or other bank industry fees could have a
    significant adverse impact on our financial condition and
    results of operations.





    The FDIC is required to maintain at least a designated minimum
    ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the United States. The
    Financial Reform Act requires the FDIC to assess insured
    depository institutions to achieve a DIF ratio of at least
    1.35 percent by September 30, 2020. The FDIC has
    recently adopted new regulations that establish a long-term
    target DIF ratio of greater than two percent. As a result of the
    ongoing instability in the economy and the failure of other
    U.S. depository institutions, the DIF ratio is currently
    below the required targets and the FDIC has adopted a
    restoration plan that will result in









    substantially higher deposit insurance assessments for all
    depository institutions over the coming years. Deposit insurance
    assessment rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be
    impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking
    industry as a whole.


 



    Transactions with
    Affiliates





    The U.S. Banks are subject to restrictions under federal
    law that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks
    and their non-bank affiliates. In general, the U.S. Banks
    are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions
    of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions
    involving Bank of America and its non-bank affiliates.
    Transactions between the U.S. Banks and their non-bank
    affiliates are required to be on arm’s length terms.


 



    Privacy and
    Information Security





    We are subject to many U.S., state and international laws and
    regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies and
    procedures to protect the non-public confidential information of
    our customers. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires the Banks to
    periodically disclose Bank of America’s privacy policies
    and practices relating to sharing such information and enables
    retail customers to opt out of our ability to market to
    affiliates and non-affiliates under certain circumstances.


 



    Additional
    Information





    See also the following additional information which is
    incorporated herein by reference: Net Interest Income (under the
    captions Financial Highlights – Net Interest Income
    and Supplemental Financial Data in the MD&A and
    Tables I, II and XIII of the Statistical Tables);
    Securities (under the caption Balance Sheet Analysis –
    Assets – Debt Securities and Market Risk
    Management – Interest Rate Risk Management for
    Nontrading Activities – Securities in the MD&A
    and Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
    Principles and Note 5 – Securities to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements); Outstanding Loans and
    Leases (under the caption Balance Sheet Overview –
    Assets – Loans and Leases and Credit Risk Management
    in the MD&A, Table IV of the Statistical Tables, and
    Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
    Principles and Note 6 – Outstanding Loans
    and Leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements);
    Deposits (under the caption Balance Sheet Overview –
    Liabilities – Deposits and Liquidity Risk –
    Funding and Liquidity Risk Management in the MD&A and
    Note 11 – Deposits to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements); Short-term Borrowings (under the caption
    Balance Sheet Overview – Liabilities –
    Commercial Paper and Other Short-term Borrowings and Liquidity
    Risk – Funding and Liquidity Risk Management in the
    MD&A, and Note 12 – Federal Funds Sold,
    Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and
    Short-term Borrowings and Note 13 –
    Long-term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements);
    Trading Account Assets and Liabilities (under the caption
    Balance Sheet Overview – Assets – Trading
    Accounts Assets and Market Risk Management – Trading
    Risk Management in the MD&A and Note 3 –
    Trading Account Assets and Liabilities to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements); Market Risk Management (under the caption
    Market Risk Management in the MD&A); Liquidity Risk
    Management (under the caption Liquidity Risk in the MD&A);
    Compliance Risk Management (under the caption Compliance Risk
    Management in the MD&A) and Operational Risk Management
    (under the caption Operational Risk Management in the
    MD&A); and Performance by Geographic Area (under
    Note 28 – Performance by Geographical Area
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements).


 








 

 


    Bank of America
    2010     7




Table of Contents




 








    
    



    
    Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors








    In the course of conducting our business operations, we are
    exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the
    financial services industry and others of which are more
    specific to our own businesses. The following discussion
    addresses some of the key risks that could affect our
    businesses, operations, and financial condition. Other factors
    that could affect our financial condition and operations are
    discussed in Forward-looking Statements in the MD&A.
    However, other factors besides those discussed below or
    elsewhere in this report could also adversely affect our
    businesses, operations, and financial condition. Therefore, the
    risk factors below should not be considered a complete list of
    potential risks that we may face.





    Our businesses and results of operations have been, and may
    continue to be, materially and adversely affected by the
    U.S. and international financial markets and economic
    conditions generally.





    Our businesses and results of operations are materially affected
    by the financial markets and general economic conditions in the
    United States and abroad, including factors such as the level
    and volatility of short-term and long-term interest rates,
    inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment
    levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending,
    fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, liquidity
    of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of
    capital and credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the
    financial markets, and the strength of the U.S. economy and
    the
    non-U.S. economies
    in which we operate. The deterioration of any of these
    conditions can adversely affect our consumer and commercial
    businesses and securities portfolios, our level of charge-offs
    and provision for credit losses, our capital levels and
    liquidity and our results of operations.





    U.S. financial markets have improved from the severe
    financial crisis that dominated the domestic economy in the
    second half of 2008 and early 2009, but mortgage markets remain
    fragile. The financial crisis that gripped the European Union
    beginning in spring 2010 directly affected U.S. financial
    market behavior and the financial services industry. Any
    intensification of Europe’s financial crisis or the
    inability to address the sources of future financial turmoil in
    Europe may adversely affect the U.S. and international
    financial markets and the financial services industry. Such
    adverse effect may involve declines in liquidity, loss of
    investor confidence in the financial services industry,
    disruptions in credit markets, declines in the values of many
    asset classes, reductions in home prices and increased
    unemployment.





    Although the U.S. economy has continued to recover
    throughout 2010 and growth of real Gross Domestic Product
    strengthened in the second half of 2010, the elevated levels of
    unemployment and household debt, along with continued stress in
    the consumer and commercial real estate markets, pose challenges
    for domestic economic performance and the banking environment.
    Consumer spending, exports and business investment in equipment
    and software rose during 2010, and showed accelerated momentum
    in the second half of 2010, but labor markets and housing
    markets remain weak and pose risks. The sustained high
    unemployment rate and the lengthy duration of unemployment have
    directly impaired consumer finances and pose risks to the
    financial services sector. The housing market remains weak and
    the elevated levels of distressed and delinquent mortgages add a
    significant degree of risk to the mortgage market, in addition
    to risks inherent to the business of banking. The risks related
    to the distressed mortgage market may be accentuated by attempts
    to forestall foreclosure proceedings, as well as state and
    federal investigations into foreclosure practices throughout the
    financial services industry. These factors may adversely affect
    credit quality, bank lending and the general financial services
    sector.





    These conditions, as well as any further challenges stemming
    from the continuing global economic recovery and recent
    financial reform initiatives, such as the Financial Reform Act,
    could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and
    results of operations in the future.













    For additional information about economic conditions and
    challenges discussed above, see Executive Summary –
    2010 Economic and Business Environment in the MD&A
    beginning on page 25.


 



    Liquidity
    Risk






    Liquidity Risk is
    the Potential Inability to Meet Our Contractual and Contingent
    Financial Obligations, on- or Off-Balance Sheet, as they Become
    Due.





    Adverse changes to our credit ratings from the major credit
    ratings agencies could have a material adverse effect on our
    liquidity, cash flows, competitive position, financial condition
    and results of operations by significantly limiting our access
    to the funding or capital markets, increasing our borrowing
    costs, or triggering additional collateral or funding
    requirements under certain bilateral provisions of our trading
    and collateralized financing contracts.





    Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are directly
    impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may
    be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in
    certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain
    transactions including OTC derivatives. Credit ratings and
    outlooks are opinions on our creditworthiness and that of our
    obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term
    borrowings, preferred stock and other securities, including
    asset securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing
    review by the ratings agencies and thus may change from time to
    time based on a number of factors, including our own financial
    strength and operations as well as factors not under our
    control, such as rating-agency-specific criteria or frameworks
    for our industry or certain security types, which are subject to
    revision from time to time, and conditions affecting the
    financial services industry generally.





    There can be no assurance that we will maintain our current
    ratings. A reduction in certain of our credit ratings or the
    ratings of certain asset-backed securitizations would likely
    have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, access to
    credit markets, the related cost of funds, our businesses and on
    certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where
    counterparty creditworthiness is critical. In connection with
    certain
    over-the-counter
    (OTC) derivatives contracts and other trading agreements,
    counterparties may require us to provide additional collateral
    or to terminate these contracts and agreements and collateral
    financing arrangements in the event of a credit ratings
    downgrade. Termination of these contracts and agreements could
    cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring
    us to make significant cash payments or securities movements. If
    Bank of America Corporation’s or Bank of America,
    N.A.’s commercial paper or short-term credit ratings (which
    currently have the following ratings:
    P-1 by
    Moody’s,
    A-1 by
    S&P and F1+ by Fitch) were downgraded by one or more
    levels, the potential loss of short-term funding sources such as
    commercial paper or repurchase agreement financing and the
    effect on our incremental cost of funds would be material.





    The ratings agencies have indicated that, as a systemically
    important financial institution, our credit ratings currently
    reflect their expectation that, if necessary, we would receive
    significant support from the U.S. government. All three
    major ratings agencies, however, have indicated they will
    reevaluate and could reduce the uplift they include in our
    ratings for government support for reasons arising from
    financial services regulatory reform proposals or legislation.
    In February 2010, S&P affirmed our current credit ratings
    but revised the outlook to negative from stable based on its
    belief that it is less certain whether the U.S. government
    would be willing to provide extraordinary support. On
    July 27, 2010, Moody’s affirmed our current ratings
    but revised the outlook to negative from stable due to its
    expectation for lower levels of government support over time as
    a result of the passage of the Financial Reform Act. Also, on
    October 22, 2010, Fitch placed our credit ratings on Rating
    Watch Negative from stable outlook due to proposed rulemaking
    that could negatively impact its assessment of future systemic
    government










 

 


    8     Bank
    of America 2010
    




Table of Contents












    support. Any expectation that government support may be
    diminished or withheld in the future would likely have a
    negative impact on the company’s credit ratings. The timing
    of the agencies’ assessment of potential government
    support, as well as its impact on our ratings, is currently
    uncertain.





    For additional information about the company’s credit
    ratings, see Liquidity Risk – Credit
    Ratings in the MD&A beginning on page 70.





    Our liquidity, cash flows, financial condition and results of
    operations, and competitive position may be significantly
    adversely affected if we are unable to access capital markets,
    continue to raise deposits, sell assets on favorable terms, or
    if there is an increase in our borrowing costs.





    Liquidity is essential to our businesses. We fund our assets
    primarily with globally sourced deposits in our bank entities,
    as well as secured and unsecured liabilities transacted in the
    capital markets. We rely on certain unsecured and secured
    funding sources, such as the commercial paper and repo markets,
    which are typically short-term and credit-sensitive in nature.
    We also engage in asset securitization transactions to fund
    consumer lending activities. Our liquidity could be
    significantly adversely affected by an inability to access the
    capital markets; illiquidity or volatility in the capital
    markets; unforeseen outflows of cash, including customer
    deposits, funding for commitments and contingencies; inability
    to sell assets on favorable terms; or negative perceptions about
    our short- or long-term business prospects, including changes in
    our credit ratings. Several of these factors may arise due to
    circumstances beyond our control, such as a general market
    disruption, negative views about the financial services industry
    generally, changes in the regulatory environment, actions by
    credit ratings agencies or an operational problem that affects
    third parties or us. For example, during the recent financial
    crisis our ability to raise funding was at times adversely
    affected in the U.S. and international markets.





    Our cost of obtaining funding is directly related to prevailing
    market interest rates and to our credit spreads. Credit spreads
    are the amount in excess of the interest rate of
    U.S. Treasury securities, or other benchmark securities, of
    the same maturity that we need to pay to our funding providers.
    Increases in interest rates and our credit spreads can
    significantly increase the cost of our funding. Changes in our
    credit spreads are market-driven, and may be influenced by
    market perceptions of our creditworthiness. Changes to interest
    rates and our credit spreads occur continuously and may be
    unpredictable and highly volatile.





    For additional information about our liquidity position and
    other liquidity matters, including credit ratings and outlooks
    and the policies and procedures we use to manage our liquidity
    risks, see Capital Management and Liquidity Risk in the
    MD&A beginning on pages 63 and 67, respectively.





    Bank of America Corporation is a holding company and as such
    we are dependent upon our subsidiaries for liquidity, including
    our ability to pay dividends to stockholders.





    Bank of America Corporation is a separate and distinct legal
    entity from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries. We evaluate
    and manage liquidity on a legal entity basis. Legal entity
    liquidity is an important consideration as there are legal and
    other limitations on our ability to utilize liquidity from one
    legal entity to satisfy the liquidity requirements of another,
    including Bank of America Corporation. For instance, Bank of
    America Corporation depends on dividends, distributions and
    other payments from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries to
    fund dividend payments on our common stock and preferred stock
    and to fund all payments on our other obligations, including
    debt obligations. Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank
    and broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that
    restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to
    block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to
    Bank of America Corporation. In addition, our bank and
    broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their
    ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum
    regulatory capital requirements, as well as restrictions on
    their ability to use funds deposited with them in bank or
    brokerage accounts to fund their businesses. Additional
    restrictions on









    related-party transactions, increased capital requirements and
    additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or
    brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the
    amount of funds available to meet the obligations of Bank of
    America Corporation and even require Bank of America Corporation
    to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. Regulatory
    action of that kind could impede access to funds we need to make
    payments on our obligations or dividend payments. In addition,
    our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a
    subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to
    the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. For a
    further discussion regarding our ability to pay dividends, see
    Note 15 – Shareholders’ Equity and
    Note 18 – Regulatory Requirements and
    Restrictions to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Mortgage
    and Housing Market-Related Risk





    We have been, and expect to continue to be, required to
    repurchase loans
    and/or
    reimburse the GSEs and monoline bond insurance companies
    (monolines) for losses due to claims related to representations
    and warranties made in connection with mortgage-backed
    securities and other loans, and have received similar claims,
    and may receive additional claims, from whole loan purchasers
    and private-label securitization investors. The resolution of
    these claims could have a material adverse effect on our cash
    flows, financial condition, and results of operations.





    We have securitized and continue to securitize first-lien
    mortgage loans generally in the form of mortgage-backed
    securities (MBS) guaranteed by the GSEs or, in the case of
    Federal Housing Administration insured and U.S. Department
    of Veterans Affairs guaranteed mortgage loans, by the Government
    National Mortgage Association. We and our legacy companies and
    certain subsidiaries have also sold pools of first-lien
    mortgages and home equity loans as private-label securitizations
    or in the form of whole loans. In certain cases, all or a
    portion of the private-label MBS were insured by monolines or
    other non-GSE counterparties. In connection with these
    securitizations and other transactions, we or our subsidiaries
    or legacy companies made various representations and warranties.
    Breaches of these representations and warranties may result in a
    requirement that we repurchase mortgage loans, or indemnify or
    provide other remedies to counterparties.





    On December 31, 2010, we reached agreements with Freddie Mac
    (FHLMC) and Fannie Mae (FNMA), collectively the GSEs, where the
    Corporation paid $2.8 billion to resolve repurchase claims
    involving first-lien residential mortgage loans sold directly to
    the GSEs by entities related to legacy Countrywide
    (Countrywide). The agreement with FHLMC extinguishes all
    outstanding and potential mortgage repurchase and make-whole
    claims arising out of any alleged breaches of selling
    representations and warranties related to loans sold directly by
    legacy Countrywide to FHLMC through 2008, subject to certain
    exceptions we do not believe will be material. The agreement
    with FNMA substantially resolves the existing pipeline of
    repurchase and make-whole claims outstanding as of
    September 20, 2010 arising out of alleged breaches of
    selling representations and warranties related to loans sold
    directly by legacy Countrywide to FNMA. These agreements with
    the GSEs do not cover outstanding and potential mortgage
    repurchase and make-whole claims arising out of any alleged
    breaches of selling representations and warranties to legacy
    Bank of America first-lien residential mortgage loans sold
    directly to the GSEs, loans sold to the GSEs other than
    described above, loan servicing obligations, other contractual
    obligations or loans contained in private-label securitizations.
    In addition, we have other unresolved representation and
    warranty claims from the GSEs and certain monolines, and other
    non-GSE counterparties, and certain monolines have instituted
    litigation against us with respect to representations and
    warranties claims.





    We have experienced increasing repurchase and similar requests
    from non-GSE counterparties, including monolines, private-label
    MBS securitization investors and whole loan purchasers. We
    expect additional activity in this










 

 


    Bank of America
    2010     9




Table of Contents












    area going forward and the volume of repurchase requests from
    monolines, whole loan purchasers and investors in private-label
    MBS could increase in the future. It is reasonably possible that
    future losses may occur and our estimate is that the upper range
    of loss related to non-GSE sales could be $7.0 billion to
    $10.0 billion over existing accruals. This estimate does
    not represent a probable loss, is based on currently available
    information, significant judgment, and a number of assumptions
    that are subject to change. A significant portion of this
    estimate relates to loans originated through legacy Countrywide,
    and the repurchase liability is generally limited to the
    original seller of the loan. Future provisions and possible loss
    or range of loss may be impacted if actual results are different
    from our assumptions regarding economic conditions, home prices
    and other matters and may vary by counterparty. We expect that
    the resolution of the repurchase claims process with the non-GSE
    counterparties will likely be a protracted process, and we will
    vigorously contest any request for repurchase if we conclude
    that a valid basis for the repurchase claim does not exist.





    The resolution of claims related to alleged breaches of these
    representations and warranties and repurchase claims could have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows
    and results of operations, and could exceed existing estimates
    and accruals. In addition, any accruals or estimates we have
    made are based on assumptions which are subject to change.





    For additional information about our representations and
    warranties exposure and past activities, see Recent
    Events – Representations and Warrants Liability, in
    the MD&A on page 33, Recent Events –
    Private-label Residential Mortgage-backed Securities Matters, in
    the MD&A on page 35, Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
    and Contractual Obligations – Representations and
    Warranties, in the MD&A beginning on page 52, and
    Note 9 – Representations and Warranties
    Obligations and Corporate Guarantees to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements and Representations.





    Continued, or increasing, declines in the domestic and
    international housing markets, including home prices, may
    adversely affect the company’s consumer and commercial
    portfolios and have a significant adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.





    Economic deterioration throughout 2009 and weakness in the
    economic recovery in 2010 was accompanied by continued stress in
    the U.S. and international housing markets, including
    declines in home prices. These declines in the housing market,
    with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, have
    negatively impacted the demand for many of our products and the
    credit performance of our consumer and commercial portfolios.
    Additionally, our mortgage loan production volume is generally
    influenced by the rate of growth in residential mortgage debt
    outstanding and the size of the residential mortgage market,
    which has declined due to reduced activity in the housing
    market. Continued high unemployment rates in the U.S. have
    added another element to the financial challenges facing
    U.S. consumers and further compounded these stresses in the
    U.S. housing market as employment conditions may be
    compelling some consumers to delay new home purchases or miss
    payments on existing mortgages.





    Conditions in the housing market have also resulted in
    significant write-downs of asset values in several asset
    classes, notably mortgage-backed securities and exposure to
    monolines. These conditions may negatively affect the value of
    real estate which could negatively affect our exposure to
    representations and warranties. While there were continued
    indications throughout the past year that the U.S. economy
    is stabilizing, the performance of our overall consumer and
    commercial portfolios may not significantly improve in the near
    future. A protracted continuation or worsening of these
    difficult housing market conditions would likely exacerbate the
    adverse effects outlined above and have a significant adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.





    We temporarily suspended our foreclosure sales nationally in
    the fourth quarter of 2010 to conduct an assessment of our
    foreclosure processes. Subsequently, numerous state and federal
    investigations of foreclosure 









    processes across our industry have been initiated. Those
    investigations and any irregularities that might be found in our
    foreclosure processes, along with any remedial steps taken in
    response to governmental investigations or to our own internal
    assessment, could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.





    On October 1, 2010, we voluntarily stopped taking
    residential mortgage foreclosure proceedings to judgment in
    states where foreclosure requires a court order following a
    legal proceeding (judicial states). On October 8, 2010, we
    stopped foreclosure sales in all states in order to complete an
    assessment of the related business processes. These actions
    generally did not affect the initiation and processing of
    foreclosures prior to judgment or sale of vacant real estate
    owned properties. We took these precautionary steps in order to
    ensure our processes for handling foreclosures include the
    appropriate controls and quality assurance. Our review has
    involved an assessment of the foreclosure process, including a
    review of completed foreclosure affidavits in pending
    proceedings.





    As a result of that review, we identified and implemented
    process and control enhancements, and we intend to monitor
    ongoing quality results of each process. After these
    enhancements were put in place, we resumed foreclosure sales in
    most states where foreclosures are handled without judicial
    supervision (non-judicial states) during the fourth quarter of
    2010, and expect sales to resume in the remaining non-judicial
    states in the first quarter of 2011. We also commenced a rolling
    process of preparing, as necessary, affidavits of indebtedness
    in pending foreclosure proceedings in order to resume the
    process of taking these foreclosure proceedings to judgment in
    judicial states, beginning with properties believed to be
    vacant, and with properties for which the mortgage was
    originated on a non-owner-occupied basis. The process of
    preparing affidavits in pending proceedings is expected to
    continue in the first quarter of 2011, and could result in
    prolonged adversary proceedings that delay certain foreclosure
    sales.





    Law enforcement authorities in all 50 states and the
    U.S. Department of Justice and other federal agencies,
    including certain bank supervisory authorities, continue to
    investigate alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices
    of residential mortgage servicers. Authorities have publicly
    stated that the scope of the investigations extends beyond
    foreclosure documentation practices to include mortgage loan
    modification and loss mitigation practices. The Corporation is
    cooperating with these investigations and is dedicating
    significant resources to address these issues. The current
    environment of heightened regulatory scrutiny has the potential
    to subject the Corporation to inquiries or investigations that
    could significantly adversely affect its reputation. Such
    investigations by state and federal authorities, as well as any
    other governmental or regulatory scrutiny of our foreclosure
    processes, could result in material fines, penalties, equitable
    remedies (including requiring default servicing or other process
    changes), or other enforcement actions, and result in
    significant legal costs in responding to governmental
    investigations and additional litigation.





    While we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the temporary
    delay in foreclosure sales, or any issues that may arise as a
    result of alleged irregularities with respect to previously
    completed foreclosure activities, we may be subject to
    additional borrower and non-borrower litigation and governmental
    and regulatory scrutiny related to our past and current
    foreclosure activities. This scrutiny may extend beyond our
    pending foreclosure matters to issues arising out of alleged
    irregularities with respect to previously completed foreclosure
    activities. Our costs increased in the fourth quarter of 2010
    and we expect that additional costs incurred in connection with
    our foreclosure process assessment will continue into 2011 due
    to the additional resources necessary to perform the foreclosure
    process assessment, to revise affidavit filings and to implement
    other operational changes. This will likely result in higher
    noninterest expense, including higher servicing costs and legal
    expenses, in Home Loans & Insurance. It is also
    possible that the temporary suspension of foreclosure sales may
    result in additional costs and










 

 


    10     Bank
    of America 2010
    




Table of Contents












    expenses, including costs associated with the maintenance of
    properties or possible home price declines, while foreclosures
    are delayed. In addition, required process changes could
    increase our default servicing costs over the longer term.
    Finally, the time to complete foreclosure sales may increase
    temporarily, which may result in an increase in non-performing
    loans and servicing advances and may impact the collectability
    of such advances and the value of our MSRs, MBS and real estate
    owned properties. An increase in the time to complete
    foreclosure sales also may inflate the amount of highly
    delinquent loans in the Corporation’s mortgage statistics,
    result in increasing levels of consumer nonperforming loans, and
    could have a dampening effect on net interest margin as
    non-performing assets rise. Accordingly, delays in foreclosure
    sales, including any delays beyond those currently anticipated,
    and our continued process enhancements and any issues that may
    arise out of alleged irregularities in our foreclosure process
    could increase the costs associated with our mortgage operations.





    Loan sales have not been materially impacted by the temporary
    delay in foreclosure sales or the review of our foreclosure
    process. However, delays in foreclosure sales could negatively
    affect the valuation of our real estate owned properties and MBS
    that are serviced by us. With respect to GSE MBS, while there
    would be no credit impairment to security holders due to the
    guarantee provided by the agencies, the valuation of certain MBS
    could be negatively affected under certain scenarios due to
    changes in the timing of cash flows. The impact on GSE MBS
    depends on, among other factors, how long the underlying loans
    are affected by foreclosure delays and would vary among
    securities. With respect to non-GSE MBS, under certain scenarios
    the timing and amount of cash flows could be negatively
    affected. The ultimate impact on non-GSE MBS depends on the same
    factors that impact GSE MBS, as well as the level of credit
    enhancement, including subordination. In addition, as a result
    of our foreclosure process assessment and related control
    enhancements that we have implemented, there may continue to be
    delays in foreclosure sales, including a continued backlog of
    foreclosure proceedings, and evictions from real estate owned
    properties.





    Failure to satisfy our obligations as servicer in the
    residential mortgage securitization process, including
    obligations related to residential mortgage foreclosure actions,
    along with other losses we could incur in our capacity as
    servicer, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition and results of operations.





    Bank of America and its legacy companies have securitized, and
    continue to securitize, a significant portion of the residential
    mortgage loans that they have originated or acquired. The
    Corporation services a large portion of the loans it or its
    subsidiaries have securitized and also services loans on behalf
    of third-party securitization vehicles. In addition to
    identifying specific servicing criteria, pooling and servicing
    arrangements entered into in connection with a securitization or
    whole loan sale typically impose standards of care on the
    servicer, with respect to its activities, that may include the
    obligation to adhere to the accepted servicing practices of
    prudent mortgage lenders
    and/or to
    exercise the degree of care and skill that the servicer employs
    when servicing loans for its own account. Many non-GSE
    residential mortgage-backed securitizations and whole loan
    servicing agreements also require the servicer to indemnify the
    trustee or other investor for or against failures by the
    servicer to perform its servicing obligations or acts or
    omissions that involve willful malfeasance, bad faith, or gross
    negligence in the performance of, or reckless disregard of, the
    servicer’s duties.





    Servicing agreements with the GSEs generally provide the GSEs
    with broader rights relative to the servicer than are found in
    servicing agreements with private investors. For example, each
    GSE typically has the right to demand









    that the servicer repurchase loans that breach the seller’s
    representations and warranties made in connection with the
    initial sale of the loans, even if the servicer was not the
    seller. The GSEs also reserve the contractual right to demand
    indemnification or loan repurchase for certain servicing
    breaches. In addition, our agreements with the GSEs and their
    first mortgage seller/servicer guides provide for timelines to
    resolve delinquent loans through workout efforts or liquidation,
    if necessary.





    With regard to alleged irregularities in foreclosure
    process-related activities referred to above, a servicer may
    incur costs or losses if the servicer elects or is required to
    re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in its
    capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed
    foreclosures. The servicer also may incur costs or losses if the
    validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If
    a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or
    deficiencies in the foreclosure process, the servicer may have
    liability to a title insurer of the property sold in
    foreclosure. These costs and liabilities may not be reimbursable
    to the servicer. A servicer may also incur costs or losses
    associated with private-label securitizations or other loan
    investors relating to delays or alleged deficiencies in
    processing documents necessary to comply with state law
    governing foreclosures.





    The servicer may be subject to deductions by insurers for
    mortgage insurance or guarantee benefits relating to delays or
    alleged deficiencies. Additionally, if the servicer commits a
    material breach of its servicing obligations that is not cured
    within specified timeframes, including those related to default
    servicing and foreclosure, it could be terminated as servicer
    under servicing agreements under certain circumstances. Any of
    these actions may harm the servicer’s reputation, increase
    its servicing costs or otherwise adversely affect its financial
    condition and results of operations.





    Mortgage notes, assignments or other documents are often
    required to be maintained and are often necessary to enforce
    mortgages loans. There has been significant public commentary
    regarding the common industry practice of recording mortgages in
    the name of Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc.
    (MERS), as nominee on behalf of the note holder, and whether
    securitization trusts own the loans purported to be conveyed to
    them and have valid liens securing those loans. We currently use
    the MERS system for a substantial portion of the residential
    mortgage loans that we originate, including loans that have been
    sold to investors or securitization trusts. Additionally,
    certain legal challenges have been made to the process for
    transferring mortgage loans to securitization trusts, asserting
    that having a mortgagee of record that is different than the
    holder of the mortgage note could “break the chain of
    title” and cloud the ownership of the loan. In order to
    foreclose on a mortgage loan, in certain cases it may be
    necessary or prudent for an assignment of the mortgage to be
    made to the holder of the note, which in the case of a mortgage
    held in the name of MERS as nominee would need to be completed
    by MERS. As such, our practice is to obtain assignments of
    mortgages from MERS prior to instituting foreclosure. If certain
    required documents are missing or defective, or if the use of
    MERS is found not to be effective, we could be obligated to cure
    certain defects or in some circumstances be subject to
    additional costs and expenses, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and
    results of operations.





    We may also face negative reputational costs from these
    servicing risks, which could reduce our future business
    opportunities in this area or cause that business to be on less
    favorable terms to us.





    For additional information concerning our servicing risks, see
    Recent Events – Certain Servicing-related Issues, in
    the MD&A beginning on page 34.





 

 


    Bank of America
    2010     11




Table of Contents




 






    Credit
    Risk






    Credit Risk is
    the Risk of Loss Arising from a Borrower, Obligor or
    Counterparty Default when a Borrower, Obligor or Counterparty
    does not Meet its Obligations.





    Increased credit risk, due to economic or market disruptions,
    insufficient credit loss reserves or concentration of credit
    risk, may necessitate increased provisions for credit losses and
    could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations.





    When we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter
    of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit
    risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their
    loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the
    terms of their agreements. A number of our products expose us to
    credit risk, including loans, leases and lending commitments,
    derivatives, trading account assets and assets
    held-for-sale.
    As one of the nation’s largest lenders, the credit quality
    of our consumer and commercial portfolios has a significant
    impact on our earnings.





    Although credit quality generally continued to show improvement
    throughout 2010, net charge-offs, nonperforming loans, leases
    and foreclosed properties remained elevated. Global and national
    economic conditions continue to weigh on our credit portfolios.
    Economic or market disruptions are likely to increase our credit
    exposure to customers, obligors or other counterparties due to
    the increased risk that they may default on their obligations to
    us. These potential increases in delinquencies and default rates
    could adversely affect our consumer credit card, home equity,
    consumer real estate and purchased credit-impaired portfolios,
    through increased charge-offs and provisions for credit losses.
    In addition, this increased credit risk could also adversely
    affect our commercial loan portfolios where we have experienced
    continued losses, particularly in our commercial real estate
    portfolios, reflecting broad-based stress across industries,
    property types and borrowers.





    We estimate and establish an allowance for credit risks and
    credit losses inherent in our lending activities (including
    unfunded lending commitments), excluding those measured at fair
    value, through a charge to earnings. The amount of allowance is
    determined based on our evaluation of the potential credit
    losses included within our loan portfolio. The process for
    determining the amount of the allowance, which is critical to
    our operating results and financial condition, requires
    difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts
    of economic conditions and how our borrowers will react to those
    conditions. Our ability to assess future economic conditions or
    the creditworthiness of our customers, obligors or other
    counterparties is imperfect. The ability of our borrowers to
    repay their loans will likely be impacted by changes in economic
    conditions, which in turn could impact the accuracy of our
    forecasts. As with any such assessments, there is also the
    chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that
    we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that
    we identify. In addition, we may underestimate the credit losses
    in our loan portfolios and suffer unexpected losses if the
    models and approaches we use to establish reserves and make
    judgments in extending credit to our borrowers and other
    counterparties become less predictive of future behaviors,
    valuations, assumptions or estimates. Although we believe that
    our allowance for credit losses was in compliance with
    applicable standards at December 31, 2010, there is no
    guarantee that it will be sufficient to address future credit
    losses, particularly if economic conditions worsen. In such an
    event we may need to increase the









    size of our allowance in 2011, which would adversely affect our
    financial condition and results of operations.





    In the ordinary course of our business, we also may be subject
    to a concentration of credit risk to a particular industry,
    country, counterparty, borrower or issuer. A deterioration in
    the financial condition or prospects of a particular industry or
    a failure or downgrade of, or default by, any particular entity
    or group of entities could have a material adverse impact on our
    businesses, and the processes by which we set limits and monitor
    the level of our credit exposure to individual entities,
    industries and countries may not function as we have
    anticipated. While our activities expose us to many different
    industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high
    volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial
    services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial
    banks, investment funds and insurers. This has resulted in
    significant credit concentration with respect to this industry.





    In the ordinary course of business, we also enter into
    transactions with sovereign nations, U.S. states and
    U.S. municipalities. Unfavorable economic or political
    conditions, disruptions to capital markets, currency
    fluctuations, social instability and changes in government
    policies could impact the operating budgets or credit ratings of
    sovereign nations, U.S. states and U.S. municipalities
    and expose us to credit risk.





    We also have a concentration of credit risk with respect to our
    consumer real estate, consumer credit card and commercial real
    estate portfolios, which represent a large percentage of our
    overall credit portfolio. The economic downturn has adversely
    affected these portfolios and further exposed us to this
    concentration of risk. Continued economic weakness or
    deterioration in real estate values or household incomes could
    result in materially higher credit losses.





    For additional information about our credit risk and credit risk
    management policies and procedures, see Credit Risk Management
    in the MD&A beginning on page 71 and
    Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
    Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.





    We could suffer losses as a result of the actions of or
    deterioration in the commercial soundness of our counterparties
    and other financial services institutions.





    Our ability to engage in routine trading and funding
    transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and
    commercial soundness of other market participants. We have
    exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we
    routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the
    financial services industry, including brokers and dealers,
    commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and
    other institutional clients. Financial services institutions and
    other counterparties are inter-related because of trading,
    funding, clearing or other relationships. As a result, defaults
    by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial
    services institutions, or the financial services industry
    generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could
    lead to significant future liquidity problems, including losses
    or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these
    transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of
    a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be
    impacted when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is
    liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount
    of the loan or derivatives exposure due us. Any such losses
    could materially adversely affect our financial condition and
    results of operations.


 








 

 


    12     Bank
    of America 2010
    




Table of Contents










    Our derivatives businesses may expose us to unexpected risks
    and potential losses.





    We are party to a large number of derivatives transactions,
    including credit derivatives. Our derivatives businesses may
    expose us to unexpected market, credit and operational risks
    that could cause us to suffer unexpected losses and have an
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations. Severe declines in asset values, unanticipated
    credit events or unforeseen circumstances that may cause
    previously uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice
    versa) may create losses resulting from risks not appropriately
    taken into account in the development, structuring or pricing of
    a derivative instrument.





    Many derivative instruments are individually negotiated and
    non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or
    settling some positions difficult. Many derivatives require that
    we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or
    other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of
    cases, we do not hold, and may not be able to obtain, the
    underlying security, loan or other obligation. This could cause
    us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or
    result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and
    operational risk, as well as increased costs to us.





    Derivatives contracts and other transactions entered into with
    third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or
    settled on a timely basis. While a transaction remains
    unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to
    heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of
    default may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. In
    addition, as new and more complex derivatives products have been
    created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other
    instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying
    contracts may arise, which could impair our ability to
    effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and
    subject us to increased costs.





    For a further discussion of our derivatives exposure, see
    Note 4 – Derivatives to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.


 



    Market
    Risk






    Market Risk is
    the Risk that Values of Assets and Liabilities or Revenues will
    be Adversely Affected by Changes in Market Conditions Such as
    Market Volatility. Market Risk is Inherent in the Financial
    Instruments Associated with our Operations and Activities,
    Including Loans, Deposits, Securities, Short-Term Borrowings,
    Long-Term Debt, Trading Account Assets and Liabilities, and
    Derivatives.





    Our businesses and results of operations have been, and may
    continue to be, significantly adversely affected by changes in
    the levels of market volatility and by other financial or
    capital market conditions.





    Our businesses and results of operations may be adversely
    affected by market risk factors such as changes in interest and
    currency exchange rates, equity and futures prices, the implied
    volatility of interest rates, credit spreads and other economic
    and business factors. These market risks may adversely affect,
    for example, (i) the value of our on- and off-balance sheet
    securities, trading assets, other financial instruments, and
    MSRs, (ii) the cost of debt capital and our access to
    credit markets, (iii) the value of assets under management,
    which could reduce our fee income relating to those assets,
    (iv) customer allocation of capital among investment
    alternatives, (v) the volume of client activity in our
    trading operations, and (vi) the general profitability and
    risk level of the transactions in which we engage. Any of these
    developments could have a significant adverse impact on our
    financial condition and results of operations.













    We use various models and strategies to assess and control our
    market risk exposures but those are subject to inherent
    limitations. For example, our models, which rely on historical
    trends and assumptions, may not be sufficiently predictive of
    future results due to limited historical patterns, extreme or
    unanticipated market movements and illiquidity, especially
    during severe market downturns or stress events. The models that
    we use to assess and control our market risk exposures also
    reflect assumptions about the degree of correlation or lack
    thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market
    indicators. In times of market stress or other unforeseen
    circumstances, such as the market conditions experienced in 2008
    and 2009, previously uncorrelated indicators may become
    correlated, or previously correlated indicators may move in
    different directions. These types of market movements have at
    times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and
    have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so
    in the future. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated
    where other market participants are using risk or trading models
    with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. In
    these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk
    positions due to the activity of other market participants or
    widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where
    asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for
    certain assets. To the extent that we make investments directly
    in securities that do not have an established liquid trading
    market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or
    hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and
    therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions.





    For additional information about market risk and our market risk
    management policies and procedures, see Market Risk Management
    in the MD&A beginning on page 100.





    Declines in the value of certain of our assets could have an
    adverse effect on our results of operations.





    We have a large portfolio of financial instruments that we
    measure at fair value including, among others, certain corporate
    loans and loan commitments, loans
    held-for-sale,
    repurchase agreements and long-term deposits. We also have
    trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives assets and
    liabilities,
    available-for-sale
    debt and marketable equity securities, consumer-related MSRs and
    certain other assets that are valued at fair value. We determine
    the fair values of these instruments based on the fair value
    hierarchy under applicable accounting guidance. The fair values
    of these financial instruments include adjustments for market
    liquidity, credit quality and other transaction specific
    factors, where appropriate.





    Gains or losses on these instruments can have a direct and
    significant impact on our results of operations, unless we have
    effectively “hedged” our exposures. For example,
    changes in interest rates, among other things, can impact the
    value of our MSRs and can result in substantially higher or
    lower mortgage banking income and earnings, depending upon our
    ability to fully hedge the performance of our MSRs. Fair values
    may be impacted by declining values of the underlying assets or
    the prices at which observable market transactions occur and the
    continued availability of these transactions. The financial
    strength of counterparties, such as monolines, with whom we have
    economically hedged some of our exposure to these assets, also
    will affect the fair value of these assets. Sudden declines and
    significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially
    curtail or eliminate the trading activity for these assets,
    which may make it very difficult to sell, hedge or value such
    assets. The inability to sell or effectively hedge assets
    reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the
    difficulty in valuing assets may increase our risk-weighted
    assets, which requires us to maintain additional capital and
    increases our funding costs.


 








 

 


    Bank of America
    2010     13




Table of Contents










    Asset values also directly impact revenues in our asset
    management businesses. We receive asset-based management fees
    based on the value of our clients’ portfolios or
    investments in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also
    receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such
    investments. Declines in asset values can reduce the value of
    our clients’ portfolios or fund assets, which in turn can
    result in lower fees earned for managing such assets.





    For additional information about fair value measurements, see
    Note 22 – Fair Value Measurements to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information
    about our asset management businesses, see Business Segment
    Operations – Global Wealth & Investment
    Management in the MD&A beginning on page 48.





    Our commodities activities, particularly our physical
    commodities business, subject us to performance, environmental
    and other risks that may result in significant cost and
    liabilities.





    As part of our commodities business, we enter into
    exchange-traded contracts, financially settled OTC derivatives,
    contracts for physical delivery and contracts providing for the
    transportation, transmission
    and/or
    storage rights on or in vessels, barges, pipelines, transmission
    lines or storage facilities. Commodity, related storage,
    transportation or other contracts expose us to the risk that the
    price of the underlying commodity or the cost of storing or
    transporting commodities may rise or fall. In addition,
    contracts relating to physical ownership
    and/or
    delivery can expose us to numerous other risks, including
    performance and environmental risks. For example, our
    counterparties may not be able to pass changes in the price of
    commodities to their customers and therefore may not be able to
    meet their performance obligations. Our actions to mitigate the
    aforementioned risks may not prove adequate to address every
    contingency. In addition, insurance covering some of these risks
    may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance
    recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect
    to particular incidents. As a result, our financial condition
    and results of operations may be adversely affected by such
    events.


 



    Regulatory
    and Legal Risk





    Bank regulatory agencies may require us to hold higher levels
    of regulatory capital, increase our regulatory capital ratios,
    or increase liquidity which could result in the need to issue
    additional securities that qualify as regulatory capital or to
    liquidate company assets.





    We are subject to the risk-based capital guidelines issued by
    the Federal Reserve Board. These guidelines establish regulatory
    capital requirements for banking institutions to meet minimal
    requirements as well as to qualify as a
    “well-capitalized” institution. (A
    “well-capitalized” institution must generally maintain
    capital ratios 200 bps higher than the minimum guidelines.)
    The risk-based capital rules have been further supplemented by
    required leverage ratios, defined as so-called Tier 1 (the
    highest grade) capital divided by quarterly average total
    assets, after certain adjustments. If any of our insured
    depository institutions fails to maintain its status as
    “well- capitalized” under the capital rules of their
    primary federal regulator, the Federal Reserve Board will
    require us to enter into an agreement to bring the insured
    depository institution or institutions back into a
    “well-capitalized” status. For the duration of such an
    agreement, the Federal Reserve Board may impose restrictions on
    the activities in which we may engage. If we were to fail to
    enter into such an agreement, or fail to comply with the terms
    of such agreement, the Federal Reserve Board may impose more
    severe restrictions on the activities in which we may engage,
    including requiring us to cease and desist in activities
    permitted under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.





    It is possible that in the future increases in regulatory
    capital requirements, changes in how regulatory capital is
    calculated or increases to liquidity requirements, may cause the
    loss of our “well-capitalized” status unless we
    increase our capital levels by issuing additional common stock,
    thus diluting









    our existing shareholders, or by selling assets. For example,
    the Financial Reform Act includes a provision under which our
    previously issued and outstanding trust preferred securities
    will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital effective
    January 1, 2013. The exclusion of trust preferred
    securities from Tier 1 capital will be phased in
    incrementally over a three-year phase-in period. The treatment
    of trust preferred securities during the phase-in period remains
    unclear and is subject to future rulemaking.





    On December 16, 2010, the Basel Committee issued Basel III,
    proposing a January 2013 implementation date for Basel III. If
    implemented by U.S. regulators as proposed, Basel III
    could significantly increase our capital requirements.
    Basel III and the Financial Reform Act propose the
    disqualification of trust preferred securities from Tier 1
    capital, with the Financial Reform Act proposing that the
    disqualification be phased in from 2013 to 2015. Basel III
    also proposes the deduction of certain assets from capital
    (deferred tax assets, mortgage servicing rights (MSRs),
    investments in financial firms and pension assets, among others,
    within prescribed limitations), the inclusion of other
    comprehensive income in capital, increased capital for
    counterparty credit risk, and new minimum capital and buffer
    requirements. U.S. regulators are expected to begin the
    final rulemaking processes for Basel III in early
    2011 and have indicated a goal to adopt final rules by
    year-end 2011 or early 2012. In addition to the capital
    proposals, in December 2010 the Basel Committee proposed two
    measures of liquidity risk. The Liquidity Coverage Ratio
    identifies the amount of unencumbered, high quality liquid
    assets a financial institution holds that can be used to offset
    the net cash outflows the institution would encounter under an
    acute 30-day
    stress scenario. The Net Stable Funding Ratio measures the
    amount of longer-term, stable sources of funding employed by a
    financial institution relative to the liquidity profiles of the
    assets funded and the potential for contingent calls on funding
    liquidity arising from off-balance sheet commitments and
    obligations, over a one-year period. The Basel Committee expects
    the Liquidity Coverage Ratio to be implemented in January 2015
    and the Net Stable Funding Ratio to be implemented in January
    2018, following observation periods beginning in 2012.





    Any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital,
    regulatory capital ratios or liquidity could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations, as we may need to liquidate certain assets, perhaps
    on terms unfavorable to us and contrary to our business plans.
    Such a requirement could also compel us to issue additional
    securities, which could dilute our current common
    stockholders.For additional information about the proposals
    described above and their potential effect on our required
    levels of regulatory capital, see Item 1.
    Business – Capital and Operational Requirements on
    page 5 and Capital Management – Regulatory
    Capital in the MD&A beginning on page 63.





    Government measures to regulate the financial industry,
    including the Financial Reform Act, either individually, in
    combination or in the aggregate, could require us to change
    certain of our business practices, impose significant additional
    costs on us, limit the products that we offer, limit our ability
    to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, require
    us to increase our regulatory capital, impact the value of
    assets that we hold, significantly reduce our revenues or
    otherwise materially and adversely affect our businesses,
    financial condition or results of operations.





    As a financial institution, we are heavily regulated at the
    state, federal and international levels. As a result of the
    financial crisis and related global economic downturn that began
    in 2007, we have faced and expect to continue to face increased
    public and legislative scrutiny as well as stricter and more
    comprehensive regulation of our financial services practices.
    These regulatory and legislative measures, either individually,
    in combination or in the aggregate, could require us to change
    certain of our business practices, impose significant additional
    costs on us, limit the products that we offer, limit our ability
    to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, require
    us to increase our regulatory capital, impact the value of
    assets that we hold,










 

 


    14     Bank
    of America 2010
    




Table of Contents












    significantly reduce our revenues or otherwise materially and
    adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, or results
    of operations.





    Throughout 2009 and 2010, several major regulatory and
    legislative initiatives were adopted that will have significant
    future impacts on our businesses and financial results. For
    example, in November 2009, the Federal Reserve Board issued
    amendments to Regulation E, which implements the Electronic
    Fund Transfer Act. The rules became effective on
    July 1, 2010 for new customers and August 16, 2010 for
    existing customers. These amendments limit the way we and other
    banks charge an overdraft fee for non-recurring debit card
    transactions that overdraw a consumer’s account unless the
    consumer affirmatively consents to the bank’s payment of
    overdrafts for those transactions. In addition, in May 2009, the
    Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure
    (“CARD”) Act of 2009 was signed into law. The majority
    of the CARD Act provisions became effective in February 2010.
    The CARD Act legislation contains comprehensive credit card
    reform related to credit card industry practices, including
    significantly restricting banks’ ability to change interest
    rates and assess fees to reflect individual consumer risk,
    changing the way payments are applied and requiring changes to
    consumer credit card disclosures. Complying with the
    Regulation E amendments and the CARD Act has required us to
    invest significant management attention and resources to make
    the necessary disclosure and systems changes and has adversely
    affected, and will likely continue to adversely affect, our
    earnings.





    In July 2010, the Financial Reform Act was signed into law. The
    Financial Reform Act, among other reforms, (i) mandates
    that the Federal Reserve Board limit debit card interchange
    fees; (ii) bans banking organizations from engaging in
    proprietary trading and restricts their sponsorship of, or
    investing in, hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to
    limited exceptions; (iii) increases regulation of the
    over-the-counter
    derivative markets through measures that broaden the derivative
    instruments subject to regulation, requiring clearing and
    exchange trading and imposing additional capital and margin
    requirements for derivative market participants;
    (iv) changes the assessment base used in calculating FDIC
    deposit insurance fees from assessable deposits to total assets
    less tangible capital; (v) provides for heightened capital,
    liquidity, and prudential regulation and supervision over
    systemically important financial institutions;
    (vi) provides for resolution authority to establish a
    process to unwind large systemically important financial
    companies; (vii) creates a new regulatory body to set
    requirements around the terms and conditions of consumer
    financial products and expands the role of state regulators in
    enforcing consumer protection requirements over banks;
    (viii) disqualifies trust preferred securities and other
    hybrid capital securities from Tier 1 capital;
    (ix) includes a variety of corporate governance and
    executive compensation provisions and requirements; and
    (x) requires securitizers to retain a portion of the risk
    that would otherwise be transferred into certain securitization
    transactions.





    Many of these provisions have begun to be or will be phased in
    over the next several months or years and will be subject both
    to further rulemaking and the discretion of applicable
    regulatory bodies. The ultimate impact of the final rules on our
    businesses and results of operations will depend on regulatory
    interpretation and rulemaking, as well as the success of any of
    our actions to mitigate the negative earnings impact of certain
    provisions. For instance, in December 2010, the Federal Reserve
    Board requested comment on a proposed rule that would establish
    debit card interchange fee standards and prohibit network
    exclusivity arrangements and routing restrictions. The proposed
    rule would establish standards for determining whether a debit
    card interchange fee received by a card issuer is reasonable and
    proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer for the
    transaction. Depending upon which cap is ultimately adopted, the
    final rule could have a significant adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations and could result
    in additional goodwill impairment charges within our Global
    Card Services business segment.





    We also anticipate that the final regulations associated with
    the Financial Reform Act will include limitations on certain
    activities, including limitations on









    the use of a bank’s own capital for proprietary trading and
    sponsorship or investment in hedge funds and private equity
    funds (Volcker Rule). Regulations implementing the Volcker Rule
    are required to be in place by October 21, 2011, and the
    Volcker Rule becomes effective 12 months after such rules
    are final or on July 21, 2012, whichever is earlier. The
    Volcker Rule then gives banking entities two years from the
    effective date (with opportunities for additional extensions) to
    bring activities and investments into conformance. In
    anticipation of the adoption of the final regulations, we have
    begun winding down our proprietary trading line of business. The
    ultimate impact of the Volcker Rule or the winding down of this
    business, and the time it will take to comply or complete,
    continues to remain uncertain. The final regulations issued may
    impose additional operational and compliance costs on us.





    Additionally, the Financial Reform Act includes measures to
    broaden the scope of derivative instruments subject to
    regulation by requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain
    derivatives, imposing new capital and margin requirements for
    certain market participants and imposing position limits on
    certain
    over-the-counter
    derivatives. The Financial Reform Act grants the
    U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the
    SEC substantial new authority and requires numerous rulemakings
    by these agencies. Generally, the CFTC and SEC have until
    July 16, 2011 to promulgate the rulemakings necessary to
    implement these regulations. The ultimate impact of these
    derivatives regulations, and the time it will take to comply,
    continues to remain uncertain. The final regulations will impose
    additional operational and compliance costs on us and may
    require us to restructure certain businesses and negatively
    impact our revenues and results of operations.





    The Financial Reform Act provided for a new resolution authority
    to establish a process to unwind large systemically important
    financial institutions. As part of that process we will be
    required to develop and implement a recovery and resolution plan
    which will be subject to review by the FDIC and the Federal
    Reserve Board to determine whether our plan is credible and
    viable. As a result of FDIC and Federal Reserve Board review, we
    could be required to take certain actions over the next several
    years which could impose operational costs and could potentially
    result in the divestiture or restructuring of certain businesses
    and subsidiaries.





    Although we cannot predict the full effect of the Financial
    Reform Act on our operations, it, as well as the future rules
    implementing its reforms, could result in a significant loss of
    revenue, impose additional costs on us, require us to increase
    our regulatory capital or otherwise materially adversely affect
    our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.





    In addition, Congress and the Administration have signaled
    growing interest in reforming the U.S. corporate income
    tax. While the timing of consideration of such legislative
    reform is unclear, possible approaches include lowering the 35%
    corporate tax rate, modifying the taxation of income earned
    outside of the U.S. and limiting or eliminating various
    other deductions, tax credits
    and/or other
    tax preferences. It is not possible at this time to quantify
    either the one-time impact from remeasuring deferred tax assets
    and liabilities that might result upon enactment of tax reform
    or the ongoing impact reform might have on income tax expense,
    but it is possible either of these impacts could adversely
    affect our financial condition and results of operations.





    Other countries have also proposed and, in some cases, adopted
    certain regulatory changes targeted at financial institutions or
    that otherwise affect us. For example, the European Union has
    adopted increased capital requirements and the U.K. has
    (i) increased liquidity requirements for local financial
    institutions, including regulated U.K. subsidiaries of non-U.K.
    bank holding companies and other financial institutions as well
    as branches of non-U.K. banks located in the U.K;
    (ii) adopted a Bank Tax Levy which will apply to the
    aggregate balance sheet of branches and subsidiaries of non-U.K.
    banks and banking groups operating in the U.K.;
    (iii) proposed the creation and production of recovery and
    resolution plans (commonly referred to as living wills) by U.K.
    regulated entities; and (iv) announced the expectation of
    corporate










 

 


    Bank of America
    2010     15




Table of Contents












    income tax rate reductions of one percent to be enacted during
    each of 2011, 2012 and 2013 that would favorably impact income
    tax expense on future earnings but which would result in
    adjustments to the carrying value of deferred tax assets and
    related one-time charges to income tax expenses of nearly
    $400 million for each one percent reduction (however, it is
    possible that the full three percent rate reductions could be
    enacted in 2011, which would result in a 2011 charge of
    approximately $1.1 billion). We are also monitoring other
    international legislative proposals that could materially impact
    us, such as changes to income tax laws. Currently, in the U.K.,
    net operating loss carry forwards (NOLs) have an indefinite
    life. Were the U.K. taxing authorities to introduce limitations
    on the future utilization of NOLs and the Corporation was unable
    to document its continued ability to fully utilize its NOLs, it
    would be required to establish a valuation allowance by a charge
    to income tax expense. Depending upon the nature of the
    limitations, such a change could be material in the period of
    enactment. In addition, in 2010 the FSA issued a policy
    statement regarding payment protection insurance (PPI) that
    requires companies to review their sales practices and to
    proactively remediate certain problems, if discovered. As a
    result of this review, we may be required to record additional
    liabilities.





    For additional information about the regulatory initiatives
    discussed above, see Regulatory Matters in the MD&A
    beginning on page 56. For additional information about PPI,
    see Note 14 – Commitments and
    Contingencies – Payment Protection
    Insurance Claims Matter to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.





    During the last ten years, the Corporation and its subsidiaries
    and legacy companies have sold over $2.0 trillion of loans to
    the GSEs. Each GSE is currently in a conservatorship, with its
    primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, acting as
    conservator. We cannot predict if, when or how the
    conservatorships will end, or any associated changes to the
    GSEs’ business structure that could result. We also cannot
    predict whether the conservatorships will end in receivership.
    There are several proposed approaches to reform the GSEs which,
    if enacted, could change the structure of the GSEs and the
    relationship among the GSEs, the government, and the private
    markets. We expect dialogue concerning GSE reform to continue
    and additional proposals to be advanced. We cannot predict the
    prospects for the enactment, timing or content of legislative or
    rulemaking proposals regarding the future status of the GSEs.
    Accordingly, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the
    future of the GSEs, including whether they will continue to
    exist in their current form. GSE reform, if enacted, could
    result in a significant change to the business operations of
    Home Loans & Insurance.





    Finally, since the financial crisis began several years ago, an
    increasing number of bank failures has imposed significant costs
    on the FDIC in resolving those failures, and the
    regulator’s deposit insurance fund has been depleted. In
    order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve
    ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC has increased,
    and may increase in the future, assessment rates of insured
    institutions, including Bank of America.





    Deposits placed at the U.S. Banks are insured by the FDIC,
    subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the
    FDIC’s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act,
    FDIC insurance coverage limits were permanently increased to
    $250,000 per customer. The Financial Reform Act also provides
    for unlimited FDIC insurance coverage for non-interest bearing
    demand deposit accounts for a two-year period beginning on
    December 31, 2010 and ending on January 1, 2013. The
    FDIC administers the DIF, and all insured depository
    institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC that
    fund the DIF. The Financial Reform Act changed the methodology
    for calculating deposit insurance assessments from the amount of
    an insured depository institution’s domestic deposits to
    its total assets minus tangible capital. On February 7,
    2011 the FDIC issued a new regulation implementing revisions to
    the assessment system mandated by the Financial Reform Act. The
    new regulation will be effective April 1, 2011 and will be
    reflected in the June 30, 2011 FDIC fund balance and the
    invoices for assessments due









    September 30, 2011. As a result of the new regulations, we
    expect to incur higher annual deposit insurance assessments. We
    have identified potential mitigation actions, but they are in
    the early stages of development and we are not able to directly
    control the basis or the amount of premiums that we are required
    to pay for FDIC insurance or for other fees or assessment
    obligations imposed on financial institutions. Any future
    increases in required deposit insurance premiums or other bank
    industry fees could have a significant adverse impact on our
    financial condition and results of operations.





    We face substantial potential legal liability and significant
    regulatory action, which could have material adverse effects on
    our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations,
    or cause significant reputational harm to us.





    We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the
    volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in
    litigation and regulatory proceedings against us and other
    financial institutions remain high and are increasing. Increased
    litigation costs, substantial legal liability or significant
    regulatory action against us could have material adverse effects
    on our financial condition and results of operations or cause
    significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could
    adversely impact our business prospects. In addition, we
    continue to face increased litigation risk and regulatory
    scrutiny as a result of the Countrywide and Merrill Lynch
    acquisitions. As a result of ongoing challenging economic
    conditions and the increased level of defaults over recent
    years, we have continued to experience increased litigation and
    other disputes with counterparties regarding relative rights and
    responsibilities. These litigation and regulatory matters and
    any related settlements could have a material adverse effect on
    our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
    They could also negatively impact our reputation and lead to
    volatility of our stock price. For a further discussion of
    litigation risks, see Note 14 – Commitments
    and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.





    Changes in governmental fiscal and monetary policy could
    adversely affect our financial condition and results of
    operations.





    Our businesses and earnings are affected by domestic and
    international fiscal and monetary policy. For example, the
    Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit
    in the United States and its policies determine in large part
    our cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising
    activities and the return we earn on those loans and
    investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. The
    actions of the Federal Reserve Board also can materially affect
    the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt
    securities and MSRs, and its policies also can affect our
    borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to
    repay their loans. Our businesses and earnings are also affected
    by the fiscal or other policies that are adopted by various
    U.S. regulatory authorities,
    non-U.S. governments
    and international agencies. Changes in domestic and
    international fiscal and monetary policies are beyond our
    control and difficult to predict but could have an adverse
    impact on our capital requirements and the costs of running our
    businesses, in turn adversely impacting our financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    Risk
    of the Competitive Environment in which We Operate





    We face significant and increasing competition in the
    financial services industry.





    We operate in a highly competitive environment.  Over
    time, there has been substantial consolidation among companies
    in the financial services industry, and this trend accelerated
    in recent years as the credit crisis led to numerous mergers and
    asset acquisitions among industry participants and in certain
    cases reorganization, restructuring, or even bankruptcy. This
    trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and
    financial services markets. We will continue to experience
    intensified competition as further










 

 


    16     Bank
    of America 2010
    




Table of Contents












    consolidation in the financial services industry in connection
    with current market conditions may produce larger,
    better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies
    that are capable of offering a wider array of financial products
    and services at more competitive prices. To the extent we expand
    into new business areas and new geographic regions, we may face
    competitors with more experience and more established
    relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants
    in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability
    to compete. In addition, technological advances and the growth
    of
    e-commerce
    have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer
    products and services that traditionally were banking products,
    and for financial institutions to compete with technology
    companies in providing electronic and internet-based financial
    solutions. Increased competition may negatively affect our
    results of operations by creating pressure to lower prices on
    our products and services and reducing market share.





    Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our
    businesses, including our competitive position and business
    prospects.





    Our ability to attract and retain investors, customers, clients
    and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our
    reputation is damaged. Significant harm to our reputation can
    arise from many sources, including employee misconduct,
    litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum
    standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical
    behavior, unintended disclosure of confidential information, and
    the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties.
    Actions by the financial services industry generally or by
    certain members or individuals in the industry also can
    significantly adversely affect our reputation.





    Our actual or perceived failure to address various issues also
    could give rise to reputational risk that could cause
    significant harm to us and our business prospects, including
    failure to properly address operational risks. These issues
    include legal and regulatory requirements, privacy, properly
    maintaining customer and associate personal information, record
    keeping, protecting against money-laundering, sales and trading
    practices, ethical issues, and the proper identification of the
    legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent
    in our products.





    We could suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to
    properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest.
    Management of potential conflicts of interests has become
    increasingly complex as we expand our business activities
    through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests
    with and among our clients. The failure to adequately address,
    or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of
    interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with
    us, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which
    could adversely affect our businesses.





    We continue to face increased public and regulatory scrutiny
    resulting from the financial crisis, including our foreclosure
    practices, modifications of mortgages, volume of lending,
    compensation practices, our acquisitions of Countrywide and
    Merrill Lynch, and the suitability of certain trading and
    investment businesses. Failure to appropriately address any of
    these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory
    restrictions, legal risks and reputational harm, which could,
    among other consequences, increase the size and number of
    litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to
    enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur
    related costs and expenses.





    Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is
    critical to the success of our businesses and failure to do so
    could adversely affect our business prospects, including our
    competitive position and results of operations.





    Our performance is heavily dependent on the talents and efforts
    of highly skilled individuals. Competition for qualified
    personnel within the financial services industry and from
    businesses outside the financial services industry has been, and
    is expected to continue to be, intense even during difficult
    economic times. Our competitors include
    non-U.S.-based
    institutions and institutions otherwise not subject to
    compensation and hiring regulations imposed on
    U.S. institutions and financial institutions in particular.
    The difficulty we face in competing for key personnel is
    exacerbated in emerging markets, where we









    are often competing for qualified employees with entities that
    may have a significantly greater presence or more extensive
    experience in the region.





    In order to attract and retain qualified personnel, we must
    provide market-level compensation. As a large financial and
    banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on
    compensation practices (which may or may not affect our
    competitors) by the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC or other
    regulators around the world. Any future limitations on executive
    compensation imposed by legislators and regulators could
    adversely affect our ability to attract and maintain qualified
    employees. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our annual
    bonus compensation paid to our senior employees has in recent
    years taken the form of long-term equity awards. The value of
    long-term equity awards to senior employees generally has been
    negatively affected by the significant decline in the market
    price of our common stock. If we are unable to continue to
    attract and retain qualified individuals, our business
    prospects, including our competitive position and results of
    operations, could be adversely affected.





    Our inability to adapt our products and services to evolving
    industry standards and consumer preferences could harm our
    businesses.





    Our business model is based on a diversified mix of businesses
    that provide a broad range of financial products and services,
    delivered through multiple distribution channels. Our success
    depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and
    services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing
    pressure by competitors to provide products and services at
    lower prices. This can reduce our net interest margin and
    revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition,
    the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet
    services, could require us to incur substantial expenditures to
    modify or adapt our existing products and services. We might not
    be successful in developing or introducing new products and
    services, responding or adapting to changes in consumer spending
    and saving habits, achieving market acceptance of our products
    and services, or sufficiently developing and maintaining loyal
    customers.


 



    Risks
    Related to Risk Management





    Our risk management framework may not be effective in
    mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant
    losses.





    Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and
    loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and
    control our exposure to the types of risk to which we are
    subject, including strategic, credit, market, liquidity,
    compliance, fiduciary, operational and reputational risks, among
    others. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk
    monitoring and mitigation techniques, those techniques are
    inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence
    or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown
    risks. For example, recent economic conditions, heightened
    legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services
    industry and increases in the overall complexity of our
    operations, among other developments, have resulted in the
    creation of a variety of previously unanticipated or unknown
    risks, highlighting the intrinsic limitations of our risk
    monitoring and mitigation techniques. As such, we may incur
    future losses due to the development of such previously
    unanticipated or unknown risks.





    For additional information about our risk management policies
    and procedures, see Managing Risk in the MD&A beginning on
    page 59.





    A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems
    or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could disrupt our
    businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information
    or damage our reputation. Any such failure also could have a
    significant adverse effect on our reputation, cash flows,
    financial condition, and results of operations.





    Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process
    and monitor, on a continuous basis, a large number of
    transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous
    and diverse markets in many currencies. The potential for
    operational risk exposure exists throughout our organization,
    including losses resulting from unauthorized trades by any
    employees.










 

 


    Bank of America
    2010     17




Table of Contents












    Integral to our performance is the continued efficacy of our
    internal processes, systems, relationships with third parties
    and the vast array of employees and key executives in our
    day-to-day
    and ongoing operations. Our financial, accounting, data
    processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to
    operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that
    are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect
    our ability to process these transactions or provide these
    services. We must continuously update these systems to support
    our operations and growth. This updating entails significant
    costs and creates risks associated with implementing new systems
    and integrating them with existing ones.





    In addition, we also face the risk of operational failure,
    termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing
    agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial
    intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions.
    In recent years, there has been significant consolidation among
    clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, which has
    increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or
    capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries
    that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and
    cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure,
    termination or constraint. Industry consolidation, whether among
    market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the
    risk of operational failure as disparate complex systems need to
    be integrated, often on an accelerated basis.





    Furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial
    institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses,
    and the increased centrality of these entities under proposed
    and potential regulation, increases the risk that an operational
    failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide
    operational failure that could adversely impact our own business
    operations. Any such failure, termination or constraint could
    adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our
    clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses
    and could have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity,
    financial condition, and results of operations.





    Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and
    transmission of confidential and other information in our
    computer systems and networks. Although we take protective
    measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant,
    the security of our computer systems, software and networks may
    be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer
    viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have
    a security impact. Additionally, breaches of security may occur
    through intentional or unintentional acts by those having
    authorized or unauthorized access to our or our clients’ or
    counterparties’ confidential or other information. If one
    or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize
    our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential
    and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted
    through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause
    interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our
    counterparties’ or third parties’ operations, which
    could result in significant losses or reputational damage to us.
    We may be required to expend significant additional resources to
    modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate
    vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from operational and
    security risks, and we may be subject to litigation and
    financial losses that are either not insured against or not
    fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.





    We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and
    proprietary information by
    e-mail and
    other electronic means. We have discussed and worked with
    clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other
    third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities, but
    we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure
    capabilities with all of our clients, vendors, service
    providers, counterparties and other third parties, and we may
    not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate
    controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the
    information. Any interception, misuse or mishandling of
    personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to
    or received from a client, vendor, service provider,
    counterparty or other third party could result in legal
    liability, regulatory action and









    reputational harm for us and could have a significant adverse
    effect on our competitive position, financial condition and
    results of operations.





    With regard to the physical infrastructure that supports our
    operations, we have taken measures to implement backup systems
    and other safeguards, but our ability to conduct business may be
    adversely affected by any disruption to that infrastructure.
    Such disruptions could involve electrical, communications,
    internet, transportation or other services used by us or third
    parties with whom we conduct business. These disruptions may
    occur as a result of events that affect only our facilities or
    those of our clients or other business partners but they could
    also be the result of events with a broader impact globally,
    regionally or in the cities where those facilities are located.
    The costs associated with such disruptions, including any loss
    of business, could have a significant adverse effect on our
    results of operations or financial condition.





    Any of these operational and security risks could lead to
    significant and negative consequences, including reputational
    harm as well as loss of customers and business opportunities,
    which in turn could have a significant adverse effect on our
    businesses, financial condition and results of operations. For a
    further discussion of operational risks and our operational risk
    management, see Operational Risk Management in the MD&A
    beginning on page 106.


 



    Risk
    Related to Past Acquisitions





    Any failure to successfully integrate or otherwise realize
    the expected benefits from our recent acquisitions could
    adversely affect our results of operations.





    There are significant risks and uncertainties associated with
    mergers and acquisitions. We have made several significant
    acquisitions in the last several years, including Merrill Lynch
    and Countrywide, and the success of these acquisitions faces
    numerous challenges. In particular, the success of our
    acquisition of Merrill Lynch in 2009 will continue to depend, in
    part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and
    cost savings from combining the businesses of Bank of America
    and Merrill Lynch. If we are not able to successfully integrate
    these businesses, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of
    the acquisition may not be realized fully or may take longer to
    realize than expected. For example, we may fail to realize the
    growth opportunities and cost savings anticipated to be derived
    from the acquisition. With regard to any of our acquisitions, a
    significant decline in asset valuations or cash flows may also
    cause us not to realize expected benefits. These failures could
    in turn negatively affect our financial condition, including
    adversely impacting the carrying value of the acquisition
    premium or goodwill. Our ability to achieve these objectives has
    also been made more difficult as a result of the substantial
    challenges that we are facing in our businesses because of the
    current economic environment.





    In addition, it is possible that the integration process could
    result in disruption of our and Merrill Lynch’s ongoing
    businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures
    and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain
    sufficiently strong relationships with clients, customers,
    depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits
    of the acquisition. Integration efforts may also divert
    management attention and resources. These integration matters
    could have an adverse effect on us for an undetermined period.
    We will be subject to similar risks and difficulties in
    connection with any future acquisitions or decisions to
    downsize, sell or close units or otherwise change the business
    mix of the Corporation.


 



    Risk
    of Being an International Business





    We are subject to numerous political, economic, market,
    reputational, operational, legal, regulatory and other risks in
    the
    non-U.S. jurisdictions
    in which we operate which could adversely impact our
    businesses.





    We do business throughout the world, including in developing
    regions of the world commonly known as emerging markets. Our
    businesses and revenues derived from
    non-U.S. jurisdictions
    are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social
    or judicial instability, changes in governmental










 

 


    18     Bank
    of America 2010
    




Table of Contents












    policies or policies of central banks, expropriation,
    nationalization
    and/or
    confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls,
    exchange controls, other restrictive actions, unfavorable
    political and diplomatic developments and changes in
    legislation. These risks are especially acute in emerging
    markets. As in the United States, many
    non-U.S. jurisdictions
    in which we do business have been negatively impacted by
    recessionary conditions. While a number of these jurisdictions
    are showing signs of recovery, others continue to experience
    increasing levels of stress. In addition, the risk of default on
    sovereign debt in some
    non-U.S. jurisdictions
    is increasing and could expose us to substantial losses. Any
    such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an
    adverse impact on our businesses and results of operations.





    Our
    non-U.S. businesses
    are also subject to extensive regulation by various
    non-U.S. regulators,
    including governments, securities exchanges, central banks and
    other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those
    businesses operate. In many countries, the laws and regulations
    applicable to the financial services and securities industries
    are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to
    determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market
    or manage our relationships with multiple regulators in various
    jurisdictions. Our inability to remain in compliance with local
    laws in a particular market and manage our relationships with
    regulators could have a significant and adverse effect not only
    on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation
    generally.





    We also invest or trade in the securities of corporations and
    governments located in
    non-U.S. jurisdictions,
    including emerging markets. Revenues from the trading of
    non-U.S. securities
    may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above
    factors. Furthermore, the impact of these fluctuations could be
    magnified, because
    non-U.S. trading
    markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are
    generally smaller, less liquid and more volatile than
    U.S. trading markets.





    We are subject to geopolitical risks, including acts or threats
    of terrorism, and actions taken by the U.S. or other
    governments in response
    and/or
    military conflicts, that could adversely affect business and
    economic conditions abroad as well as in the United States.













    For a further discussion of our
    non-U.S. credit
    and trading portfolio, see Credit Risk Management —
    Non-U.S. Portfolio
    in the MD&A beginning on page 94.


 



    Risk
    from Accounting Changes





    Changes in accounting standards or inaccurate estimates or
    assumptions in the application of accounting policies could
    adversely affect our financial condition and results of
    operations.





    Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we
    record and report our financial condition and results of
    operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and
    assumptions that may affect the reported value of our assets or
    liabilities and results of operations and are critical because
    they require management to make difficult, subjective and
    complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain.
    If those assumptions, estimate or judgments were incorrectly
    made, we could be required to correct and restate prior period
    financial statements.





    Accounting standard-setters and those who interpret the
    accounting standards (such as the Financial Accounting Standards
    Board (FASB), the SEC, banking regulators and our independent
    registered public accounting firm) may also amend or even
    reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how
    various standards should be applied. These changes can be hard
    to predict and can materially impact how we record and report
    our financial condition and results of operations. In some
    cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard
    retroactively, resulting in the Corporation needing to revise
    and republish prior period financial statements. For a further
    discussion of some of our critical accounting policies and
    standards and recent accounting changes, see Complex Accounting
    Estimates in the MD&A beginning on page 107 and
    Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
    Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B