.  Risk FactorsIn the course of conducting our business operations, we are exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the financial services industry and others of which are more specific to our own businesses. The discussion below addresses the most significant factors, of which we are aware, that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Additional factors that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition are discussed in Forward-looking Statements in the MD&A on page 23. However, other factors not discussed below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could also adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Therefore, the risk factors below should not be considered a complete list of potential risks that we may face.Any risk factor described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any of our other SEC filings could by itself, or together with other factors, materially adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows, competitive position, business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition, including by materially increasing our expenses or decreasing our revenues, which could result in material losses.General Economic and Market Conditions RiskOur businesses and results of operations may be adversely affected by the U.S. and international financial markets, U.S. and non-U.S. fiscal and monetary policy, and economic conditions generally.Our businesses and results of operations are affected by the financial markets and general economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad, including factors such as the level and volatility of short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of capital and credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets, the sustainability of economic growth in the U.S., Europe, China and Japan, and economic, market, political and social conditions in several larger emerging market countries. The deterioration of any of these conditions could adversely affect our consumer and commercial businesses and securities portfolios, our level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, our capital levels and liquidity, and our results of operations.Continued elevated unemployment, under-employment and household debt and rising interest rates, along with continued stress in the consumer real estate market and certain commercial real estate markets in the U.S. pose challenges for domestic economic performance and the financial services industry. The sustained high unemployment rate and the lengthy duration of unemployment have directly impaired consumer finances and pose risks to the financial services industry.Continued uncertainty in a number of housing markets and elevated levels of distressed and delinquent mortgages remain risks to the housing market. The current environment of heightened scrutiny of financial institutions has resulted in increased public awareness of and sensitivity to banking fees and practices. Mortgage and housing market-related risks may be accentuated by attempts to forestall foreclosure proceedings, as well as state and federal investigations into foreclosure practices by mortgage  servicers. Each of these factors may adversely affect our fees and costs.Our businesses and results of operations are also affected by domestic and international fiscal and monetary policy. The actions of the Federal Reserve in the U.S. and central banks internationally regulate the supply of money and credit in the global financial system. Their policies affect our cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. The actions of the Federal Reserve in the U.S. and central banks internationally also can affect the value of financial instruments and other assets, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), and its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Our businesses and earnings are also affected by the fiscal or other policies that are adopted by the U.S. government, various U.S. regulatory authorities, and non-U.S. governments and regulatory authorities. Changes in domestic and international fiscal and monetary policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict but could have an adverse impact on our capital requirements and the costs of running our business.For more information about economic conditions and challenges discussed above, see Executive Summary – 2013 Economic and Business Environment in the MD&A on page 24.Mortgage and Housing Market-Related RiskOur mortgage loan repurchase obligations or claims from third parties could result in additional losses.We and our legacy companies have sold significant amounts of residential mortgage loans. In connection with these sales, we or certain of our subsidiaries or legacy companies make or have made various representations and warranties, breaches of which may result in a requirement that we repurchase the mortgage loans, or otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to counterparties. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $19.7 billion of unresolved repurchase claims and an additional approximately $1.2 billion of repurchase demands that we do not consider to be valid repurchase claims. These repurchase claims and demands relate primarily to private-label securitizations and monoline-insured securitizations. Private-label securitization unresolved repurchase claims have increased in recent periods, and we expect such claims to continue to increase. In addition to repurchase claims, we receive notices from mortgage insurance companies of claim denials, cancellations or coverage rescission (collectively, MI rescission notices) and the number of such notices has remained elevated.We have recorded a liability of $13.3 billion for obligations under representations and warranties exposures (which includes exposures related to MI rescission notices). We have also established an estimated range of possible loss of up to $4 billion over our recorded liability. Although we have not recorded any representations and warranties liability for certain potential private-label securitization and whole-loan exposures where we have little to no claim experience, these exposures are included in the estimated range of possible loss. Reserves and estimated range of possible loss for certain potential monoline representations and warranties exposures are considered in our litigation reserve and estimated range of possible loss. Our recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for representations and warranties exposures are based on currently available information and are necessarily dependent on, and   Bank of America 2013     5limited by a number of factors, including our historical claims and settlement experiences as well as significant judgment and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. As a result, our liability and estimated range of possible loss related to our representations and warranties exposures may materially change in the future. If future representations and warranties losses occur in excess of our recorded liability, such losses could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.The liability for obligations under representations and warranties exposures and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss do not consider any losses related to litigation matters, including residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) litigation or litigation brought by monoline insurers nor do they include any separate foreclosure costs and related costs, assessments and compensatory fees or any other possible losses related to potential claims for breaches of performance of servicing obligations (except as such losses are included as potential costs of the BNY Mellon Settlement (defined below)), potential securities law or fraud claims or potential indemnity or other claims against us, including claims related to loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). We are not able to reasonably estimate the amount of any possible loss with respect to any such servicing, securities law, fraud or other claims against us, except to the extent reflected in existing accruals or the estimated range of possible loss for litigation and regulatory matters disclosed in Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements; however, such loss could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.For more information about our representations and warranties exposure, including the range of possible loss, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations – Representations and Warranties in the MD&A on page 52, Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management in the MD&A on page 77 and Note 7 – Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Our representations and warranties losses could be substantially different from existing accruals and the existing estimated range of possible loss for representations and warranties liability if court approval of the BNY Mellon Settlement is not obtained or if it is otherwise abandoned.The Bank of New York Mellon settlement (BNY Mellon Settlement) remains subject to final court approval and certain other conditions. It is not currently possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the court approval process, which can include appeals and could take a substantial period of time. The court approval hearing began in the New York Supreme Court, New York County, on June 3, 2013 and concluded on November 21, 2013. On January 31, 2014, the court issued a decision, order and judgment approving the BNY Mellon Settlement. The court overruled the objections to the settlement, holding that the Trustee, BNY Mellon, acted in good faith, within its discretion and within the bounds of reasonableness in determining that the settlement agreement was in the best interests of the covered trusts. The court declined to approve the Trustee’s conduct only with respect to the Trustee’s consideration of a potential claim that a loan must be repurchased if the servicer modifies its terms. On February 4, 2014, one of the objectors filed a motion to stay entry of judgment and to hold additional proceedings in the trial court on issues it alleged had not been litigated or decided by the court in its January 31, 2014 decision, order and judgment. On February 18, 2014, the same objector also filed a motion for reargument of the trial court’s  January 31, 2014 decision. The court held a hearing on the motion to stay on February 19, 2014, and rejected the application for stay and for further proceedings in the trial court. The court also ruled it would not hold oral argument on the objector’s motion for reargument before April 2014. On February 21, 2014, final judgment was entered and the Trustee filed a notice of appeal regarding the court’s ruling on loan modification claims in the settlement. The court’s January 31, 2014 decision, order and judgment remain subject to appeal and the motion to reargue, and it is not possible to predict the timetable for appeals or when the court approval process will be completed.If final court approval is not obtained with respect to the BNY Mellon Settlement, or if the Corporation and legacy Countrywide determine to withdraw from the BNY Mellon Settlement agreement in accordance with its terms, the Corporation’s future representations and warranties losses could be substantially different from existing accruals, together with our estimated range of possible loss for all representations and warranties exposures of up to $4 billion over existing accruals at December 31, 2013. Developments with respect to one or more of the assumptions underlying the estimated range of possible loss for representations and warranties (including the timing and ultimate outcome of the court approval process relating to the BNY Mellon Settlement) could result in changes in our non-government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) reserve and/or our estimated range of possible loss.For more information regarding the BNY Mellon Settlement, see Note 7 – Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees to the Consolidated Financial Statements.If the U.S. housing market weakens, or home prices decline, our consumer loan portfolios, credit quality, credit losses, representations and warranties exposures, and earnings may be adversely affected.Although U.S. home prices continued to improve during 2013, the declines in prior years have negatively impacted the demand for many of our products and the credit performance of our consumer mortgage portfolios. Additionally, our mortgage loan production volume is generally influenced by the rate of growth in residential mortgage debt outstanding and the size of the residential mortgage market.Conditions in the U.S. housing market in prior years have also resulted in significant write-downs of asset values in several asset classes, notably mortgage-backed securities (MBS), and increased exposure to monolines. If the U.S. housing market were to weaken, the value of real estate could decline, which could negatively affect our exposure to representations and warranties. While there were continued indications in 2013 that the U.S. economy is stabilizing, the performance of our overall consumer portfolios may not significantly improve in the near future. A protracted continuation or worsening of difficult housing market conditions may exacerbate the adverse effects outlined above and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, our home equity portfolio, which makes up approximately 27 percent of our total home loans portfolio, contains a significant percentage of loans in second-lien or more junior-lien positions, and such loans have elevated risk characteristics. Our home equity portfolio had an outstanding balance of $93.7 billion as of December 31, 2013, including $80.3 billion of home equity lines of credit (HELOC), $12.0 billion of home equity loans and $1.4 billion of reverse mortgages. Of the total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2013, $23.0 billion, or 25 percent, were in first-lien positions (26 percent excluding the 6     Bank of America 2013  purchased credit-impaired (PCI) home equity portfolio) and $70.7 billion, or 75 percent (74 percent excluding the PCI home equity portfolio) were in second-lien or more junior-lien positions. The HELOCs that have entered the amortization period have experienced a higher percentage of early stage delinquencies and nonperforming status when compared to the home equity line of credit portfolio as a whole. Loans in our home equity line of credit portfolio generally have an initial draw period of 10 years and more than 85 percent of these loans will not enter their amortization period until 2015 or later. As a result, delinquencies and defaults may increase in future periods.Continued mortgage foreclosure delays and investigations into our residential mortgage foreclosure practices may increase our costs. In addition, mortgage foreclosure proceedings have been slow in certain states due to a high volume of pending proceedings, which may cause us to have higher credit losses.Foreclosure sales in states where foreclosure requires a court order (judicial states) have been much slower than in those states where foreclosure does not require a court order (non-judicial states). There continues to be a backlog of foreclosure inventory in judicial states as the process of obtaining a court order can significantly increase the time required to complete a foreclosure. Excluding fully-insured portfolios, approximately 30 percent of our residential mortgage loan portfolio, including 37 percent of nonperforming residential mortgage loans, and 36 percent of our home equity portfolio, including 44 percent of nonperforming home equity loans, were in judicial states as of December 31, 2013.The implementation of changes in procedures and controls, including loss mitigation procedures related to our ability to recover on FHA insurance-related claims, and governmental, regulatory and judicial actions, may result in continuing delays in foreclosure proceedings and foreclosure sales and create obstacles to the collection of certain fees and expenses, in both judicial and non-judicial foreclosures, which could cause us to have higher credit losses.Although we expect total servicing costs will decline if the number of delinquencies continue to decline, we expect that mortgage-related assessments and waiver costs, including compensatory fees and similar costs, and other costs associated with foreclosures will remain elevated as additional loans are delayed in the foreclosure process. These elevated costs, along with elevated default servicing costs and legal expense, may result in elevated noninterest expense in future periods. Contributing to the elevated default servicing costs are required process changes, including those required under the consent orders with federal bank regulators and new requirements from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Delays in foreclosure sales may result in additional costs associated with the maintenance of properties or possible home price declines, result in a greater number of nonperforming loans and increased servicing advances and may adversely impact the collectability of such advances and the value of our MSR asset, MBS and real estate owned properties. With respect to GSE MBS, the valuation of certain MBS could be negatively affected under certain scenarios due to changes in the  timing of cash flows. With respect to non-GSE MBS, under certain scenarios, the timing and amount of cash flows could be negatively affected.For more information regarding our foreclosure sales, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations – Servicing, Foreclosure and Other Mortgage Matters in the MD&A on page 57.Continued investigations into and heightened scrutiny regarding our mortgage-related activities could result in additional costs and damage to our reputation.In 2012, we entered into the National Mortgage Settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice, various federal regulatory agencies and 49 state Attorneys General, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Federal Reserve and the OCC, which resolved a significant amount of HUD claims and federal and state investigations into certain origination, servicing and foreclosure practices. However, the National Mortgage Settlement did not cover claims arising out of securitization (including representations made to investors with respect to MBS), criminal claims, private claims by borrowers, claims by certain states for injunctive relief or actual economic damages to borrowers related to Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. (MERS), and claims by the GSEs (including repurchase demands), among other items.We continue to be subject to additional borrower and non-borrower litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to our past and current origination, servicing, transfer of servicing and servicing rights, and foreclosure activities, including those claims not covered by the National Mortgage Settlement. This scrutiny may extend beyond our pending foreclosure matters to issues arising out of alleged irregularities with respect to previously completed foreclosure activities. We are also subject to inquiries, investigations, actions and claims from regulators, trustees, investors and other third parties relating to other mortgage-related activities such as the purchase, sale, pooling, and origination and securitization of loans, as well as structuring, marketing, underwriting and issuance of MBS and other securities, including claims relating to the adequacy and accuracy of disclosures in offering documents and representations and warranties made in connection with whole-loan sales or securitizations, including claims for contractual indemnification. The ongoing environment of heightened scrutiny may subject us to governmental or regulatory inquiries, investigations, actions, penalties and fines, including by the U.S. Department of Justice, state Attorneys General and other members of the RMBS Working Group of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, or by other regulators or government agencies that could adversely affect our reputation and result in costs to us in excess of current reserves and management’s estimate of the aggregate range of possible loss for litigation matters.For more information regarding the National Mortgage Settlement, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations – Servicing, Foreclosure and Other Mortgage Matters in the MD&A on page 57.  Bank of America 2013     7Failure to satisfy our obligations as servicer in the residential mortgage securitization process, including residential mortgage foreclosure obligations, along with other losses we could incur in our capacity as servicer, could cause losses.We and our legacy companies have securitized a significant portion of the residential mortgage loans that we originated or acquired. We service a large portion of the loans we have securitized and also service loans on behalf of third-party securitization vehicles and other investors. At December 31, 2013, we serviced approximately 6.1 million loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $810 billion, including loans owned by us and by others. Of the 3.6 million loans serviced for others, approximately 65 percent and 35 percent are held in GSE and non-GSE securitization vehicles, respectively. In addition to identifying specific servicing criteria, pooling and servicing arrangements in a securitization or whole-loan sale typically impose standards of care on the servicer that may include the obligation to adhere to the accepted servicing practices of prudent mortgage lenders and/or to exercise the degree of care and skill that the servicer employs when servicing loans for its own account. Servicing agreements with the government-sponsored entities, Fannie Mae (FNMA) and Freddie Mac (FHLMC) (collectively, the GSEs), generally provide the GSEs with broader rights relative to the servicer than are found in servicing agreements with private investors.With regard to alleged irregularities in foreclosure process-related activities referred to above, we may incur costs or losses if we elect or are required to re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We may also incur costs or losses if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower, or overturned by a court because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process. These costs and liabilities may not be reimbursable to us. We may also incur costs or losses relating to delays or alleged deficiencies in processing documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures. We may be subject to deductions by insurers for MI or guarantee benefits relating to delays or alleged deficiencies.If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. In addition, we may have liability for any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, for any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of our duties. If any of these actions were to occur, it may harm our reputation, increase our servicing costs or adversely impact our results of operations.Mortgage notes, assignments or other documents are often required to be maintained and are often necessary to enforce mortgage loans. We currently use the MERS system for approximately half of the residential mortgage loans that we have originated and remain in our servicing portfolio, including loans that have been sold to investors or securitization trusts. Additionally, certain local and state governments have commenced legal actions against us, MERS and other MERS members, questioning the validity of the MERS model. Other challenges have also been made to the process for transferring mortgage loans to securitization trusts, asserting that having a mortgagee of record that is different than the holder of the mortgage note could “break the chain of title” and cloud the ownership of the loan. If certain  required documents are missing or defective, or if the use of MERS is found not to be valid, we could be obligated to cure certain defects or in some circumstances be subject to additional costs and expenses. Our use of MERS as nominee for the mortgage may also create reputational risks for us.In addition to the adverse impact these factors could directly have on us, we may also face negative reputational costs from these servicing risks, which could reduce our future business opportunities in this area or cause that business to be on less favorable terms to us.For additional information, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations in the MD&A on page 52.Liquidity RiskLiquidity Risk is the Potential Inability to Meet Our Contractual and Contingent Financial Obligations, On- or Off-balance Sheet, as they Become Due.Adverse changes to our credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies could significantly limit our access to funding or the capital markets, increase our borrowing costs, or trigger additional collateral or funding requirements.Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are directly impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, preferred stock and other securities, including asset securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies, which consider a number of factors, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control.Currently, the Corporation’s long-term/short-term senior debt ratings and outlooks expressed by the rating agencies are as follows: Baa2/P-2 (Stable) by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s); A-/A-2 (Negative) by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P); and A/F1 (Stable) by Fitch Ratings (Fitch). The rating agencies could make adjustments to our credit ratings at any time. There can be no assurance that downgrades will not occur.A reduction in certain of our credit ratings could negatively affect our liquidity, access to credit markets, the related cost of funds, our businesses and certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical. If the short-term credit ratings of our parent company, bank or broker/dealer subsidiaries were downgraded by one or more levels, we may suffer the potential loss of access to short-term funding sources such as repo financing, and/or increased cost of funds.In addition, under the terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, in the event of a downgrade of our credit ratings or certain subsidiaries’ credit ratings, counterparties to those agreements may require us or certain subsidiaries to provide additional collateral, terminate these contracts or agreements, or provide other remedies. At December 31, 2013, if the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for us or certain subsidiaries by one incremental notch, the amount of additional collateral contractually required by 8     Bank of America 2013  derivative contracts and other trading agreements would have been approximately $1.3 billion, including $881 million for Bank of America, N.A. (BANA). If the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for these entities by an additional incremental notch, approximately $4.1 billion in additional incremental collateral, including $3.0 billion for BANA would have been required. Also, if the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for us or certain subsidiaries by one incremental notch, the derivative liability that would be subject to unilateral termination by counterparties as of December 31, 2013 was $927 million against which $733 million of collateral has been posted. If the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for us and certain subsidiaries by a second incremental notch, the derivative liability that would be subject to unilateral termination by counterparties as of December 31, 2013 was an incremental $1.9 billion, against which $1.5 billion of collateral has been posted.While certain potential impacts are contractual and quantifiable, the full consequences of a credit ratings downgrade to a financial institution are inherently uncertain, as they depend upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a firm’s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties.For more information about our credit ratings and their potential effects to our liquidity, see Liquidity Risk – Credit Ratings in the MD&A on page 75 and Note 2 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.If we are unable to access the capital markets, continue to maintain deposits, or our borrowing costs increase, our liquidity and competitive position will be negatively affected.Liquidity is essential to our businesses. We fund our assets primarily with globally sourced deposits in our bank entities, as well as secured and unsecured liabilities transacted in the capital markets. We rely on certain secured funding sources, such as repo markets, which are typically short-term and credit-sensitive in nature. We also engage in asset securitization transactions, including with the GSEs, to fund consumer lending activities. Our liquidity could be adversely affected by any inability to access the capital markets; illiquidity or volatility in the capital markets; unforeseen outflows of cash, including customer deposits, funding for commitments and contingencies, including Variable Rate Demand Notes; increased liquidity requirements on our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries imposed by their home countries; or negative perceptions about our short- or long-term business prospects, including downgrades of our credit ratings. Several of these factors may arise due to circumstances beyond our control, such as a general market disruption, negative views about the financial services industry generally, changes in the regulatory environment, actions by credit rating agencies or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. Our cost of obtaining funding is directly related to prevailing market interest rates and to our credit spreads. Credit spreads are the amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury securities, or other benchmark securities, of a similar maturity that we need to pay to our funding providers. Increases in interest rates and our credit spreads can increase the cost of our funding. Changes in our credit spreads are market-driven and may be influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. Changes to interest rates and our credit spreads occur continuously and may be unpredictable and highly volatile.For more information about our liquidity position and other liquidity matters, including credit ratings and outlooks and the policies and procedures we use to manage our liquidity risks, see Capital Management and Liquidity Risk in the MD&A on pages 65 and 71.Bank of America Corporation is a holding company and we depend upon our subsidiaries for liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. Applicable laws and regulations, including capital and liquidity requirements, may restrict our ability to transfer funds from our subsidiaries to Bank of America Corporation or other subsidiaries.Bank of America Corporation, as the parent company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries. We evaluate and manage liquidity on a legal entity basis. Legal entity liquidity is an important consideration as there are legal and other limitations on our ability to utilize liquidity from one legal entity to satisfy the liquidity requirements of another, including the parent company. For instance, the parent company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on our common stock and preferred stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations, including debt obligations. Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker/dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries. In addition, our bank and broker/dealer subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in bank or brokerage accounts to fund their businesses.Additional restrictions on related party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of the parent company and even require the parent company to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds we need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. For more information regarding our ability to pay dividends, see Note 13 – Shareholders’ Equity and Note 16 – Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Bank of America 2013     9Credit RiskCredit Risk is the Risk of Loss Arising from a Borrower, Obligor or Counterparty Default when a Borrower, Obligor or Counterparty does not Meet its Obligations.Economic or market disruptions, insufficient credit loss reserves or concentration of credit risk may necessitate an increase in the provision for credit losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.When we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their agreements. A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading account assets and assets held-for-sale. As one of the nation’s largest lenders, the credit quality of our consumer and commercial portfolios has a significant impact on our earnings.Global and U.S. economic conditions may impact our credit portfolios. To the extent economic or market disruptions occur, such disruptions would likely increase our credit exposure to customers, obligors or other counterparties due to the increased risk that they may default on their obligations to us. These potential increases in delinquencies and default rates could adversely affect our consumer credit card, home equity, consumer real estate and PCI portfolios through increased charge-offs and provision for credit losses. Additionally, increased credit risk could also adversely affect our commercial loan portfolios.We estimate and establish an allowance for credit losses for losses inherent in our lending activities (including unfunded lending commitments), excluding those measured at fair value, through a charge to earnings. The amount of allowance is determined based on our evaluation of the potential credit losses included within our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance, which is critical to our financial condition and results of operations, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how borrowers will react to those conditions. Our ability to assess future economic conditions or the creditworthiness of our customers, obligors or other counterparties is imperfect. The ability of our borrowers to repay their loans will likely be impacted by changes in economic conditions, which in turn could impact the accuracy of our forecasts.As with any such assessments, there is also the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we identify.We may suffer unexpected losses if the models and assumptions we use to establish reserves and make judgments in extending credit to our borrowers and other counterparties become less predictive of future events. Although we believe that our allowance for credit losses was in compliance with applicable accounting standards at December 31, 2013, there is no guarantee that it will be sufficient to address future credit losses, particularly if economic conditions deteriorate. In such an event, we might need to increase the size of our allowance, which reduces our earnings.In the ordinary course of our business, we also may be subject to a concentration of credit risk in a particular industry, country, counterparty, borrower or issuer. A deterioration in the financial  condition or prospects of a particular industry or a failure or downgrade of, or default by, any particular entity or group of entities could negatively affect our businesses, and the processes by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. While our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers/dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, insurers, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients and funds. This has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. Financial services institutions and other counterparties are inter-related because of trading, funding, clearing or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to significant future liquidity problems, including losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be impacted when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due us.In the ordinary course of business, we also enter into transactions with sovereign nations, U.S. states and U.S. municipalities. Unfavorable economic or political conditions, disruptions to capital markets, currency fluctuations, changes in energy prices, social instability and changes in government policies could impact the operating budgets or credit ratings of sovereign nations, U.S. states and U.S. municipalities and expose us to credit risk.We also have a concentration of credit risk with respect to our consumer real estate, consumer credit card and commercial real estate portfolios, which represent a large percentage of our overall credit portfolio. The economic downturn has adversely affected these portfolios and further exposed us to this concentration of risk. Continued economic weakness or deterioration in real estate values or household incomes could result in higher credit losses.For more information about our credit risk and credit risk management policies and procedures, see Credit Risk Management in the MD&A on page 76 and Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Our derivatives businesses may expose us to unexpected risks and potential losses.We are party to a large number of derivatives transactions, including credit derivatives. Our derivatives businesses may expose us to unexpected market, credit and operational risks that could cause us to suffer unexpected losses. Severe declines in asset values, unanticipated credit events or unforeseen circumstances that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice versa) may create losses resulting from risks not appropriately taken into account in the development, structuring or pricing of a derivative instrument. The terms of certain of our OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements provide that upon the occurrence of certain specified events, such as a change in our credit ratings, we may be required to provide additional collateral or to provide other remedies, or our counterparties may have the right to terminate or otherwise diminish our rights under these contracts or agreements.10     Bank of America 2013  Many derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling some positions difficult. Many derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we do not hold, and may not be able to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation.In the event of a downgrade of the Corporation’s credit ratings, certain derivative and other counterparties may request we substitute BANA as counterparty for certain derivative contracts and other trading agreements. Our ability to substitute or make changes to these agreements to meet counterparties’ requests may be subject to certain limitations, including counterparty willingness, regulatory limitations on naming BANA as the new counterparty, and the type or amount of collateral required. It is possible that such limitations on our ability to substitute or make changes to these agreements, including naming BANA as the new counterparty, could adversely affect our results of operations.Derivatives contracts, including new and more complex derivatives products, and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. While a transaction remains unconfirmed, or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit, market and operational risk and, in the event of default, may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. In addition, disputes may arise with counterparties, including government entities, about the terms, enforceability and/or suitability of the underlying contracts. These factors could negatively impact our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased credit and operating costs and reputational risk.  For more information on our derivatives exposure, see Note 2 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Market RiskMarket Risk is the Risk that Values of Assets and Liabilities or Revenues will be Adversely Affected by Changes in Market Conditions Such as Market Volatility. Market Risk is Inherent in the Financial Instruments Associated with our Operations, Including Loans, Deposits, Securities, Short-term Borrowings, Long-term Debt, Trading Account Assets and Liabilities, and Derivatives.Increased market volatility and adverse changes in other financial or capital market conditions may increase our market risk.Our liquidity, cash flows, competitive position, business, results of operations and financial condition are affected by market risk factors such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates, equity and futures prices, the implied volatility of interest rates, credit spreads and other economic and business factors. These market risks may adversely affect, among other things, (i) the value of our on- and off-balance sheet securities, trading assets, other financial instruments, and MSRs, (ii) the cost of debt capital and our access to credit markets, (iii) the value of assets under management (AUM), (iv) fee income relating to AUM, (v) customer allocation of capital among investment alternatives, (vi) the volume of client activity in our trading operations, (vii) investment banking fees, and (viii) the general profitability and risk level of the transactions in which we engage. For example, the value of certain  of our assets is sensitive to changes in market interest rates. If the Federal Reserve changes or signals a change in the timing or pace of tapering of its current mortgage securities repurchase program, market interest rates could be affected, which could adversely impact the value of such assets.We use various models and strategies to assess and control our market risk exposures but those are subject to inherent limitations. Our models, which rely on historical trends and assumptions, may not be sufficiently predictive of future results due to limited historical patterns, extreme or unanticipated market movements and illiquidity, especially during severe market downturns or stress events. The models that we use to assess and control our market risk exposures also reflect assumptions about the degree of correlation among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. In addition, market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk.In times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as the market conditions experienced in 2008 and 2009, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. These types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. In these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. To the extent that we own securities that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. In addition, challenging market conditions may also adversely affect our investment banking fees.For more information about market risk and our market risk management policies and procedures, see Market Risk Management in the MD&A on page 108.A downgrade in the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating, or in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, could result in risks to the Corporation and its credit ratings and general economic conditions that we are not able to predict.On October 15, 2013, Fitch placed its AAA long-term and F1+ short-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. government on rating watch negative. On July 18, 2013, Moody’s revised its outlook on the U.S. government to stable from negative and affirmed its AAA long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. government. On June 10, 2013, S&P affirmed its AA+ long-term and A-1+ short-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. government, and revised the outlook on the long-term credit rating to stable from negative. All three rating agencies have indicated that they will continue to assess fiscal projections and consolidation measures, as well as the medium-term economic outlook for the U.S.The ratings and perceived creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the U.S. government could also be correspondingly affected by any downgrade. Instruments of this nature are often held as trading, investment or excess liquidity   Bank of America 2013     11positions on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including the Corporation, and are widely used as collateral by financial institutions to raise cash in the secured financing markets. A downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government and perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-related obligations could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affecting the pricing of that funding when it is available. A downgrade may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments.We cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings or perceived creditworthiness of these organizations will affect economic conditions. The credit rating agencies’ ratings for the Corporation or its subsidiaries could be directly or indirectly impacted by a downgrade of the U.S. government’s sovereign rating because certain credit ratings of large systemically important financial institutions, including those of the Corporation or its subsidiaries, currently include a degree of uplift due to rating agencies’ assumptions concerning potential government support. In addition, the Corporation presently delivers a material portion of the residential mortgage loans it originates into GSEs, agencies or instrumentalities (or instruments insured or guaranteed thereby). We cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings of these organizations will affect their ability to finance residential mortgage loans.A downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government or the credit ratings of related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities would exacerbate the other risks to which the Corporation is subject and any related adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our businesses may be affected by uncertainty about the financial stability and growth rates of non-U.S. jurisdictions, the risk that those jurisdictions may face difficulties servicing their sovereign debt, and related stresses on financial markets, currencies and trade.Risks and ongoing concerns about the financial stability of several non-U.S. jurisdictions could impact our operations and have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery. For instance, sovereign and non-sovereign debt levels remain elevated. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, corporate investment and job creation, bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and corporate debt, economic growth rates and asset values, among other factors. A number of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we do business have been negatively impacted by slowing growth rates or recessionary conditions, market volatility and/or political unrest. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the recent market stabilization in Europe, including reduced costs of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, is sustainable, nor can there be any assurance that future assistance packages, if required, will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilize the affected countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. To the extent European economic recovery uncertainty continues to negatively impact consumer and business confidence and credit factors, or should the EU enter a deep recession, both the U.S. economy and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.The Corporation has substantial U.K. net deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of net operating losses (NOLs) that are expected to be realized by certain subsidiaries over an extended number of years. Management concluded that no valuation allowance was necessary with respect to such net deferred tax  assets. Management’s conclusion is supported by recent financial results and forecasts, the reorganization of certain business activities and the indefinite period to carry forward NOLs. However, significant changes to those expectations, such as would be caused by a substantial and prolonged worsening of the condition of Europe’s capital markets, could lead management to reassess its U.K. valuation allowance conclusions.Global economic and political uncertainty, regulatory initiatives and reform have impacted, and will likely continue to impact, non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios. There can be no assurance our risk mitigation efforts in this respect will be sufficient or successful. Our total sovereign and non-sovereign exposure to Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain was $17.1 billion at December 31, 2013 compared to $14.5 billion at December 31, 2012. Our total net sovereign and non-sovereign exposure to these countries was $10.4 billion at December 31, 2013 compared to $9.5 billion at December 31, 2012, after taking into account net credit default protection. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the fair value of hedges and credit default protection was $6.8 billion and $5.1 billion. Losses could still result because our credit protection contracts only pay out under certain scenarios. For example, it is possible that a voluntary restructuring will not constitute a credit event under the terms of a credit default swap (CDS), and consequently may not trigger a payment under the relevant CDS contract. For more information on our direct sovereign and non-sovereign exposures in the top 20 non-U.S. countries and Europe, see Non-U.S. Portfolio in the MD&A on page 100.We may incur losses if the values of certain assets decline, including due to changes in interest rates and prepayment speeds.We have a large portfolio of financial instruments, including, among others, certain loans and loan commitments, loans held-for-sale, securities financing agreements, asset-backed secured financings, long-term deposits, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives assets and liabilities, available-for-sale (AFS) debt and equity securities, other debt securities carried at fair value, certain MSRs and certain other assets and liabilities that we measure at fair value. We determine the fair values of these instruments based on the fair value hierarchy under applicable accounting guidance. The fair values of these financial instruments include adjustments for market liquidity, credit quality and other transaction-specific factors, where appropriate.Gains or losses on these instruments can have a direct impact on our results of operations, including higher or lower mortgage banking income and earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures. For example, decreases in interest rates and increases in mortgage prepayment speeds, which are influenced by interest rates, among other things, could adversely impact the value of our MSR asset, cause a significant acceleration of purchase premium amortization on our mortgage portfolio, and adversely affect our net interest margin. Conversely, increases in interest rates may result in a decrease in residential mortgage loan originations. In addition, increases in interest rates may adversely impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly, for debt securities classified as AFS, may adversely affect accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and, thus, capital levels.Fair values may be impacted by declining values of the underlying assets or the prices at which observable market transactions occur and the continued availability of these transactions. The financial strength of counterparties, with whom we have economically hedged some of our exposure to these 12     Bank of America 2013  assets, also will affect the fair value of these assets. Sudden declines and volatility in the prices of assets may curtail or eliminate the trading activity for these assets, which may make it difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. The inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may increase our risk-weighted assets, which requires us to maintain additional capital and increases our funding costs.Asset values also directly impact revenues in our asset management businesses. We receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients’ portfolios or investments in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive performance fees based on increases in the value of such investments. Declines in asset values can reduce the value of our clients’ portfolios or fund assets, which in turn can result in lower fees earned for managing such assets.For more information about fair value measurements, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information about our asset management businesses, see Business Segment Operations – Global Wealth & Investment Management in the MD&A on page 44. For more information about interest rate risk management, see Interest Rate Risk Management for Nontrading Activities in the MD&A on page 113.Changes in the method of determining the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or other reference rates may adversely impact the value of debt securities and other financial instruments we hold or issue that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates in ways that are difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations.In recent years, concerns have been raised about the accuracy of the calculation of LIBOR. Aspects of the method for determining how LIBOR is formulated and its use in the market have changed and may continue to change, including, but not limited to, requiring that LIBOR submissions be kept confidential, replacing the administrator of LIBOR, reducing the currencies and tenors for which LIBOR is calculated and requiring banks to provide LIBOR submissions based on actual transaction data or otherwise changing the structure of LIBOR, each of which could impact the availability and volatility of LIBOR. For example, the British Bankers’ Association (BBA) reduced the tenors for which LIBOR is calculated and published. In addition, the BBA has announced the administration of LIBOR will transfer from the BBA to the ICE Benchmark Administration Limited. Similar changes may occur with respect to other reference rates. Accordingly, it is not currently possible to determine whether, or to what extent, any such changes would impact the value of any debt securities we hold or issue that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates, or any loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit we hold or are due to us, or for which we are an obligor, that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates, or whether, or to what extent, such changes would impact our financial condition or results of operations. Regulatory and Legal RiskBank regulatory agencies may require us to hold higher levels of regulatory capital, increase our regulatory capital ratios or increase liquidity, which could result in the need to issue additional securities that qualify as regulatory capital or to take other actions, such as to sell company assets.We are subject to the Federal Reserve’s risk-based capital guidelines. These guidelines establish regulatory capital requirements for banking institutions to meet minimum requirements as well as to qualify as a “well-capitalized” institution. If any of our subsidiary insured depository institutions fail to maintain its status as “well-capitalized” under the applicable regulatory capital rules, the Federal Reserve will require us to agree to bring the insured depository institution or institutions back to “well-capitalized” status. For the duration of such an agreement, the Federal Reserve may impose restrictions on our activities. If we were to fail to enter into such an agreement, or fail to comply with the terms of such agreement, the Federal Reserve may impose more severe restrictions on our activities, including requiring us to cease and desist activities permitted under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.It is possible that increases in regulatory capital requirements, changes in how regulatory capital is calculated or increases to liquidity requirements may cause the loss of our “well-capitalized” status unless we increase our capital levels by issuing additional common stock, thus diluting our existing shareholders, or by taking other actions, such as selling company assets.In July 2013, U.S. banking regulators approved the final Basel 3 Regulatory Capital Rules (Basel 3). Basel 3 materially changes how our Tier 1 common, Tier 1 and Total capital are calculated. Additionally, Basel 3 introduces new minimum capital ratios and buffer requirements, a supplementary leverage ratio, changes the composition of regulatory capital, revises the adequately capitalized minimum requirement under the Prompt Corrective Action framework, expands and modifies the calculation of risk-weighted assets for credit and market risk and introduces a Standardized approach for the calculation of risk-weighted assets. The U.S. banking regulators are expected to propose and enact regulations to implement a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) capital buffer. The SIFI buffer would require us to hold Tier 1 common capital in addition to regulatory minimums.The U.S. banking regulators are also expected to adopt regulatory liquidity requirements, including a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) and a net stable funding ratio (NSFR), which are intended to ensure that firms hold sufficient liquid assets over different time horizons to fund operations if other funding sources are unavailable. In October 2013, the U.S. banking regulators issued a notice of proposed rulemaking, which, if adopted, would implement the LCR beginning on January 1, 2015 and be fully phased in by January 1, 2017. Additionally, although the timing is uncertain, the U.S. banking regulators are expected to propose and enact rules regarding the NSFR. For additional information, see Liquidity Risk – Basel 3 Liquidity Standards on page 73.  Bank of America 2013     13Compliance with the regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may impact our operations by requiring us to liquidate assets, increase borrowings, issue additional equity or other securities, cease or alter certain operations, or hold highly liquid assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations.For more information about the proposals and regulatory changes described above, see Capital Management – Regulatory Capital in the MD&A on page 65.We are subject to extensive government legislation and regulations, both domestically and internationally, which impact our operating costs and could require us to make changes to our operations, which could result in an adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, these regulations, and certain consent orders and settlements we have entered into, have increased and will continue to increase our compliance and operational costs.We are subject to extensive laws and regulations promulgated by U.S. state, U.S. federal and non-U.S. laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. In response to the financial crisis, the U.S. adopted the Financial Reform Act, which has resulted in significant rulemaking and proposed rulemaking by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the CFPB, FSOC, the FDIC, the SEC and CFTC. A number of the provisions of the Financial Reform Act, including those described below, may have an impact on our operations.Consumer Businesses. Our consumer businesses are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by the OCC, the CFPB, the FDIC and other federal and state regulators. The CFPB has promulgated several proposed and final rules that have affected and will continue to affect our consumer businesses, including, but not limited to, establishing enhanced underwriting standards and new mortgage loan servicing standards. The CFPB has also proposed rules addressing items such as remittance transfer services, appraisal requirements and loan originator compensation requirements, and debt collection practices. The Corporation is devoting substantial compliance, legal and operational business resources to facilitate compliance with these rules by their respective effective dates; however, it is possible that the final and proposed rules could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.Debit Interchange. On July 31, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia issued a ruling regarding the Federal Reserve’s rules implementing a limit on debit interchange fees mandated by the Durbin Amendment of the Financial Reform Act. The ruling requires the Federal Reserve to reconsider the current $0.21 per transaction cap on debit card interchange fees. The Federal Reserve is appealing the ruling and final resolution is expected in the first half of 2014. If the Federal Reserve, upon final resolution, implements a lower per transaction cap, it may have an adverse impact on our debit card interchange fee revenue.Derivatives. The Financial Reform Act includes measures to broaden the scope of derivative instruments subject to regulation by requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives; imposing new capital, margin, reporting, registration and business conduct requirements for certain market participants; and imposing position limits on certain OTC derivatives. Compliance with these rules could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.FDIC. The FDIC has broad discretionary authority to increase assessments on large and highly complex institutions on a case by case basis. Any future increases in required deposit insurance premiums or other bank industry fees could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Orderly Liquidation. The Financial Reform Act established an orderly liquidation process in the event of the failure of a large systemically important financial institution. Specifically, when a systemically important financial institution such as the Corporation is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver under the orderly liquidation authority instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In certain circumstances under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC could permit payment of obligations it determines to be systemically significant (e.g., short-term creditors or operating creditors) in lieu of paying other obligations (e.g., long-term senior and subordinated creditors, among others) without the need to obtain creditors’ consent or prior court review. The insolvency and resolution process could also lead to a large reduction in or total elimination of the value of a BHC’s outstanding equity. Additionally, under the orderly liquidation authority, amounts owed to the U.S. government generally receive a statutory payment priority.Resolution Planning. Under the Financial Reform Act, all BHCs with assets of $50 billion or more are required to develop and submit resolution plans annually to the FDIC and the Federal Reserve, who will review such plans to determine whether they are credible. If the FDIC and the Federal Reserve determine that our plan is not credible and we fail to cure the deficiencies in a timely manner, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations of the Corporation. We could be required to take certain actions that could impose operating costs and could potentially result in the divestiture or restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries.Volcker Rule. On December 10, 2013, the Federal Reserve, OCC, FDIC, SEC and CFTC issued final regulations under the Financial Reform Act implementing limitations on proprietary trading as well as the sponsorship of, or investment in, hedge funds and private equity funds (the Volcker Rule) and set a conformance period that will expire on July 21, 2015. Subject to certain exceptions, the Volcker Rule prohibits us from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options for our own account, as well as imposes limits on our investments in, and other relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds.We are still in the process of evaluating the full impact of the Volcker Rule on our current trading activities and our ownership interests in and transactions with hedge funds, private equity funds, commodity pools and other subsidiary operations. The Volcker Rule will likely increase our operational and compliance costs, reduce our trading revenues, and adversely affect our results of operations.CCAR. On October 12, 2012, the Federal Reserve issued final rules requiring covered entities to undergo annual stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve, the CCAR, and to conduct their own “company-run” stress tests twice a year. As part of the CCAR process, we must submit our capital plan, including any potential requests for capital actions, to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis. Our ability to return capital to shareholders, through dividends, share repurchases or otherwise, is subject to the Federal Reserve’s not objecting to our capital plan.In addition, non-U.S. regulators, such as the PRA and the European Parliament and Commission, have adopted or have proposed laws and regulations regarding financial institutions located in their jurisdictions. For example, in the United Kingdom, the PRA has issued proposed rules regarding resolution planning for our U.K.-based entities that could require us to take certain 14     Bank of America 2013  actions over the next several years that could impose operating costs on us and could potentially result in the restructuring of certain of our businesses and subsidiaries. In addition, we are subject to the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR), which regulates OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories, and imposes requirements for certain market participants with respect to derivatives reporting, clearing, business conduct and collateral. Adapting to and implementing EMIR requirements could impose operating costs. The ultimate impact of these laws and regulations remains uncertain. Many rules are still being finalized, and upon finalization could require additional regulatory guidance and interpretation. Additionally, laws proposed by different jurisdictions could create competing or conflicting requirements.We are also subject to other significant regulations, such as OFAC, FCPA, and U.S. and international anti-money laundering regulations. Laws proposed by different jurisdictions could create competing or conflicting requirements. We could become subject to regulatory requirements beyond those currently proposed, adopted or contemplated. Additionally, we are subject to the terms of settlements we have entered into with government agencies, such as the OCC Consent Order and the National Mortgage settlement.While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, compliance risks will continue to exist, particularly as we adapt to new rules and regulations. Our regulators have assumed an increasingly active oversight, inspection and investigatory role over our operations and the financial services industry generally. In addition, legal and regulatory proceedings and other contingencies will arise from time to time that may result in fines, penalties, equitable relief and changes to our business practices. As a result, we are and will continue to be subject to heightened compliance and operating costs that could adversely affect our results of operations.For more information about the regulatory initiatives discussed above, see Regulatory Matters in the MD&A on page 59.Changes in the structure of the GSEs and the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets, or the conversion of the current conservatorship of the GSEs into receivership, could result in significant changes to our business operations and may adversely impact our business.We have sold over $2.0 trillion of loans to the GSEs. Each GSE is currently in a conservatorship, with its primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, acting as conservator. We cannot predict if, when or how the conservatorships will end, or any associated changes to the GSEs’ business structure that could result. We also cannot predict whether the conservatorships will end in receivership. There are several proposed approaches to reform the GSEs that, if enacted, could change the structure of the GSEs and the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets, including the trading markets for agency conforming mortgage loans and markets for mortgage-related securities in which we participate. We cannot predict the prospects for the enactment, timing or content of legislative or rulemaking proposals regarding the future status of the GSEs. Accordingly, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the future of the GSEs, including whether they will continue to exist in their current form.We are subject to significant financial and reputational risks from potential liability arising from lawsuits, regulatory or government action.We face significant legal risks in our business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages, penalties and fines claimed in  litigation, and regulatory and government proceedings against us and other financial institutions remain high and are increasing. For example, we are currently involved in MBS litigation including purported class action suits, actions brought by individual MBS purchasers, actions brought by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) as conservator for the GSEs and governmental actions. Increased litigation and investigation costs, substantial legal liability or significant regulatory or government action against us could have adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could adversely impact our business prospects. We continue to experience increased litigation and other disputes, including claims for contractual indemnification, with counterparties regarding relative rights and responsibilities. Consumers, clients and other counterparties have grown more litigious. Our experience with certain regulatory authorities suggests an increasing supervisory focus on enforcement, including in connection with alleged violations of law and customer harm. Additionally, the ongoing environment of heightened scrutiny may subject us to governmental or regulatory inquiries, investigations, actions, penalties and fines, including by the U.S. Department of Justice, state Attorneys General and other members of the RMBS Working Group of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, or by other regulators or government agencies that could adversely affect our reputation and result in costs to us in excess of current reserves and management’s estimate of the aggregate range of possible loss for litigation matters. Recent actions by regulators and government agencies indicate that they may, on an industry basis, increasingly pursue claims under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) and the False Claims Act (FCA). For example, the Civil Division of the U.S. Attorney’s office for the Eastern District of New York is conducting an investigation concerning our compliance with the requirements of the Federal Housing Administration’s Direct Endorsement Program. FIRREA contemplates civil monetary penalties as high as $1.1 million per violation or, if permitted by the court, based on pecuniary gain derived or pecuniary loss suffered as a result of the violation. Treble damages are potentially available for FCA claims. The ongoing environment of additional regulation, increased regulatory compliance burdens, and enhanced regulatory enforcement, combined with ongoing uncertainty related to the continuing evolution of the regulatory environment, has resulted in operational and compliance costs and may limit our ability to continue providing certain products and services.For a further discussion of litigation risks, see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.We may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. and non-U.S. tax and other laws and regulations.The U.S. Congress and the Administration have indicated an interest in reforming the U.S. corporate income tax code. Possible approaches include lowering the 35 percent corporate tax rate, modifying the taxation of income earned outside the U.S. and limiting or eliminating various other deductions, tax credits and/or other tax preferences. Also, the Governor of New York has issued a proposal to reform the New York state corporate income tax. It is not possible at this time to quantify either the one-time impacts from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities that might result upon tax reform enactment or the ongoing impacts reform proposals might have on income tax expense.  Bank of America 2013     15In addition, income from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries has not been subject to U.S. income tax as a result of long-standing deferral provisions applicable to income that is derived in the active conduct of a banking and financing business abroad. These deferral provisions have expired for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014. However, the U.S. Congress has extended these provisions several times, most recently in January 2013, when it reinstated the provisions retroactively to apply to 2012 taxable years. Congress this year may similarly consider reinstating these provisions to apply to 2014 taxable years. Absent an extension, active financing income earned by certain non-U.S. subsidiaries will generally be subject to a tax provision that considers incremental U.S. income tax. The impact of the expiration of these provisions would depend upon the amount, composition and geographic mix of our future earnings.Other countries have also proposed and adopted certain regulatory changes targeted at financial institutions or that otherwise affect us. The EU has adopted increased capital requirements and the U.K. has (i) increased liquidity requirements for local financial institutions, including regulated U.K. subsidiaries of non-U.K. BHCs and other financial institutions as well as branches of non-U.K. banks located in the U.K.; (ii) adopted a Bank Levy, which will apply to the aggregate balance sheet of branches and subsidiaries of non-U.K. banks and banking groups operating in the U.K.; and (iii) proposed the creation and production of recovery and resolution plans by U.K.-regulated entities.Risk of the Competitive Environment in which We OperateWe face significant and increasing competition in the financial services industry.We operate in a highly competitive environment. Over time, there has been substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services industry, and this trend accelerated in recent years. This trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and financial services markets. We will continue to experience intensified competition as consolidation in and globalization of the financial services industry may result in larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wider array of financial products and services at more competitive prices. To the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we may face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. In addition, technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, and for financial institutions to compete with technology companies in providing electronic and internet-based financial solutions. Increased competition may negatively affect our earnings by creating pressure to lower prices on our products and services and/or reducing market share.Damage to our reputation could harm our businesses, including our competitive position and business prospects.Our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors and employees is impacted by our reputation. We continue to face increased public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and economic downturn as well as alleged irregularities in servicing, foreclosure, consumer collections, mortgage loan modifications and other practices, compensation practices, our  acquisitions of Countrywide and Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. and the suitability or reasonableness of recommending particular trading or investment strategies.Harm to our reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unintended disclosure of confidential information, and the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry also can adversely affect our reputation.We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protections and other matters. Principles concerning the appropriate scope of consumer and commercial privacy vary considerably in different jurisdictions, and regulatory and public expectations regarding the definition and scope of consumer and commercial privacy may remain fluid in the future. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied by various jurisdictions in a manner inconsistent with our current or future practices, or that is inconsistent with one another. We face regulatory, reputational and operational risks if personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in our possession is mishandled or misused.Additionally, the ongoing environment of heightened scrutiny may subject us to governmental or regulatory inquiries, investigations, actions, penalties and fines, including by the RMBS Working Group of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, or by other regulators or government agencies that could adversely affect our reputation and result in costs to us in excess of current reserves and management’s estimate of the aggregate range of possible loss for litigation matters.We could suffer reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. Management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. The failure to adequately address, or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which could adversely affect our businesses.Our actual or perceived failure to address these and other issues gives rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects, including failure to properly address operational risks. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions, legal risks and reputational harm, which could, among other consequences, increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses.Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and failure to do so could hurt our business prospects and competitive position.Our performance is heavily dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Competition for qualified personnel within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry has been, and is expected to continue to be, intense. Our competitors include non-U.S.-based institutions and institutions subject to different compensation and hiring regulations than those imposed on U.S. institutions and financial institutions. The difficulty we face in competing for key personnel is exacerbated in emerging markets, where we are often 16     Bank of America 2013  competing for qualified employees with entities that may have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region.In order to attract and retain qualified personnel, we must provide market-level compensation. As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or other regulators around the world. Any future limitations on executive compensation imposed by legislation or regulation could adversely affect our ability to attract and maintain qualified employees. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our annual incentive compensation paid to our senior employees has in recent years taken the form of long-term equity awards. Therefore, the ultimate value of this compensation depends on the price of our common stock when the awards vest. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified individuals, our business prospects and competitive position could be adversely affected.In addition, if we fail to retain the wealth advisors that we employ in GWIM, particularly those with significant client relationships, such failure could result in a loss of clients or the withdrawal of significant client assets.We may not be able to achieve expected cost savings from cost-saving initiatives or in accordance with currently anticipated time frames.We are currently engaged in numerous efforts to achieve certain cost savings, including, among other things, Project New BAC. We currently expect our planned New BAC cost savings of $2 billion per quarter to be fully realized by mid-2015 and for our Legacy Assets and Servicing costs, excluding litigation costs, to decrease to approximately $1.1 billion per quarter by the fourth quarter of 2014. However, we may be unable to fully realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our cost saving initiatives or in accordance with currently anticipated timeframes. In addition, our litigation expense may vary from period to period and may cause our noninterest expense to increase for any particular period even if we otherwise achieve the cost savings mentioned above.Our inability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences could harm our business.Our business model is based on a diversified mix of business that provides a broad range of financial products and services, delivered through multiple distribution channels. Our success depends on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure by competitors to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption  of new technologies, including internet services, could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services. We might not be successful in developing or introducing new products and services, responding or adapting to changes in consumer spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance of our products and services, or sufficiently developing and maintaining loyal customers.Risks Related to Risk ManagementOur risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for losses.Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to the types of risk to which we are subject, including strategic, credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational risks, among others. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, including hedging strategies and techniques that seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses, those techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. The Volcker Rule may impact our ability to engage in certain hedging strategies. Recent economic conditions, heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry and increases in the overall complexity of our operations, among other developments, have resulted in a heightened level of risk for us. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks.For more information about our risk management policies and procedures, see Managing Risk in the MD&A on page 61.A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor, on a continuous basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. The potential for operational risk exposure exists throughout our organization and is not limited to operations functions. Operational risk exposures can impact our results of operations, such as losses resulting from unauthorized trades by employees, and their impact may extend beyond financial losses.  Bank of America 2013     17Integral to our performance is the continued efficacy of our internal processes, systems, relationships with third parties and the vast array of employees and key executives in our day-to-day and ongoing operations. With regard to the physical infrastructure and systems that support our operations, we have taken measures to implement backup systems and other safeguards, but our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant and widespread disruption to our infrastructure or systems. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. There could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and cyber attacks. We continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth. This updating entails significant costs and creates risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones.Information security risks for large financial institutions like us have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties, including foreign state actors. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks. Our banking, brokerage, investment advisory and capital markets businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, PCs and other computing devices, tablet PCs and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Our technologies, systems, networks and our customers’ devices have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber attacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information of the Corporation, our employees or our customers, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers’ or other third parties’ business operations. For example, our websites have been subject to a series of distributed denial of service cyber security incidents. Although these incidents have not had a material impact on Bank of America, nor have they resulted in unauthorized access to our or our customers’ confidential, proprietary or other information, because of our prominence, we believe that such incidents may continue.Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains  heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale and our role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint and international presence, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, the continued uncertain global economic environment, threats of cyberterrorism, external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends, and system and customer account conversions. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.In addition, we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. In recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and increased interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses. This consolidation and interconnectivity increases the risk of operational failure, on both individual and industry-wide bases, as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. Any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses, and could have an adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, significant business disruption to the Corporation’s operations and business, misappropriation of the Corporation’s confidential information and/or that of its customers, or damage to the Corporation’s computers or systems and/or those of its customers and/or counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy laws and other laws, litigation exposure, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, loss of confidence in the Corporation’s security measures, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs.For more information on operational risks and our operational risk management, see Operational Risk Management in the MD&A on page 116.18     Bank of America 2013  Risk of Being an International BusinessWe are subject to numerous political, economic, market, reputational, operational, legal, regulatory and other risks in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate.We do business throughout the world, including in developing regions of the world commonly known as emerging markets. Our businesses and revenues derived from non-U.S. jurisdictions are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or judicial instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization and/or confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, other restrictive actions, unfavorable political and diplomatic developments, and changes in legislation. These risks are especially acute in emerging markets. A number of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we do business have been negatively impacted by slowing growth rates or recessionary conditions, market volatility and/or political unrest. Several emerging market economies are particularly vulnerable to the impact of rising interest rates, inflationary pressures, large external deficits, and political uncertainty. While some of these jurisdictions are showing signs of stabilization or recovery, others continue to experience increasing levels of stress and volatility. In addition, the potential risk of default on sovereign debt in some non-U.S. jurisdictions could expose us to substantial losses. Risks in one country can limit our opportunities for portfolio growth and negatively affect our operations in another country or countries, including our operations in the U.S. As a result, any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on our company.Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services and securities industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market or manage our relationships with multiple regulators in various jurisdictions. Our potential inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market and manage our relationships with regulators could have an adverse effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally.We also invest or trade in the securities of corporations and governments located in non-U.S. jurisdictions, including emerging markets. Revenues from the trading of non-U.S. securities may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. Furthermore, the impact of these fluctuations could be magnified, because non-U.S. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are generally smaller, less liquid and more volatile than U.S. trading markets.In addition to non-U.S. legislation, our international operations are also subject to U.S. legal requirements. For example, our international operations are subject to U.S. laws on foreign corrupt practices, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and anti-money laundering regulations.  We are subject to geopolitical risks, including acts or threats of terrorism, and actions taken by the U.S. or other governments in response thereto and/or military conflicts, which could adversely affect business and economic conditions abroad as well as in the U.S.For more information on our non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios, see Non-U.S. Portfolio in the MD&A on page 100.Risk from Accounting ChangesChanges in accounting standards or inaccurate estimates or assumptions in applying accounting policies could adversely affect us.Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported value of our assets or liabilities and results of operations and are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. If those assumptions, estimates or judgments were incorrectly made, we could be required to correct and restate prior period financial statements. Accounting standard-setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC, banking regulators and our independent registered public accounting firm) may also amend or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how various standards should be applied. These changes may be difficult to predict and could impact how we prepare and report our financial statements. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the Corporation needing to revise and republish prior period financial statements.The FASB issued on December 20, 2012 a proposed standard on accounting for credit losses. The standard would replace multiple existing impairment models, including replacing an “incurred loss” model for loans with an “expected loss” model. The FASB announced it will establish the effective date when it issues the final standard. We cannot predict whether or when a final standard will be issued, when it will be effective or what its final provisions will be. The final standard may materially reduce retained earnings in the period of adoption.For more information on some of our critical accounting policies and standards and recent accounting changes, see Complex Accounting Estimates in the MD&A on page 117 and Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Item 1B