Item 1A of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.


 


    For financial information about foreign and domestic operations
    and geographic information, see Note 12 in Item 8 of
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    For more information regarding foreign currency exchange risk,
    refer to the discussion under the caption entitled
    “Financial Instrument Market Risk” in Item 7 of
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Contractual
    Arrangements


 


    Substantial portions of the company’s products are sold
    through contracts with customers, both within and outside the
    United States. Some of these contracts have terms of more than
    one year and place limits on the company’s ability to
    increase prices. In the case of hospitals, governments and other
    facilities, these contracts may specify minimum quantities of a
    particular product or categories of products to be purchased by
    the customer.


 


    In keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in
    healthcare delivery, many hospitals and other customers of
    medical products in the United States and in other countries
    have joined group purchasing organizations (GPOs), or formed
    integrated delivery networks (IDNs), to enhance purchasing
    power. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with
    manufacturers and distributors, and the negotiated prices are
    made available to members. Baxter has purchasing agreements with
    several of the major GPOs in the United States. GPOs may have
    agreements with more than one supplier for certain products.
    Accordingly, in these cases, Baxter faces competition from other
    suppliers even where a customer is a member of a GPO under
    contract with Baxter.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    Raw materials essential to Baxter’s business are purchased
    from numerous suppliers worldwide in the ordinary course of
    business. Although most of these materials are generally
    available, certain raw materials used in producing some of the
    company’s products are available only from one or a limited
    number of suppliers, and Baxter at times may experience
    shortages of supply. In an effort to manage risk associated with
    raw materials supply, Baxter works closely with its suppliers to
    help ensure availability and continuity of supply while
    maintaining high quality and reliability. The company also seeks
    to develop new and alternative sources of supply where
    beneficial to its overall raw materials procurement strategy.


 


    The company also utilizes long-term supply contracts with some
    suppliers to help maintain continuity of supply and manage the
    risk of price increases. Baxter is not always able to recover
    cost increases for raw materials through customer pricing due to
    contractual limits and market forces.


 



    Competition
    and Healthcare Cost Containment


 


    Baxter’s BioScience, Medication Delivery and Renal
    businesses enjoy leading positions based on a number of
    competitive advantages. The BioScience business benefits from
    continued innovation in its products and therapies, consistency
    of its supply of products, and strong customer relationships.
    The Medication Delivery business benefits from the breadth and
    depth of its product offering, as well as strong relationships
    with customers, including hospitals, customer purchasing groups
    and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. The Renal
    business benefits from its position as one of the world’s
    leading manufacturers of PD products, as





    
    2



 





    well as its strong relationships with customers and patients,
    including the many patients who self-administer the home-based
    therapy supplied by Baxter. Baxter as a whole benefits from
    efficiencies and cost advantages resulting from shared
    manufacturing facilities and the technological advantages of its
    products.


 


    Although no single company competes with Baxter in all of its
    businesses, Baxter faces substantial competition in each of its
    segments from international and domestic healthcare and
    pharmaceutical companies of all sizes. BioScience continues to
    face competitors from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other
    companies. Medication Delivery faces competition from medical
    device manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies. In Renal,
    global and regional competitors continue to expand their
    manufacturing capacity for PD products and their PD sales and
    marketing channels. Competition is primarily focused on
    cost-effectiveness, price, service, product performance, and
    technological innovation. There has been increasing
    consolidation in the company’s customer base and by its
    competitors, which continues to result in pricing and market
    share pressures.


 


    Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to
    exert pressure on product pricing. Governments around the world
    use various mechanisms to control healthcare expenditures, such
    as price controls, product formularies (lists of recommended or
    approved products), and competitive tenders which require the
    submission of a bid to sell products. Sales of Baxter’s
    products are dependent, in part, on the availability of
    reimbursement by government agencies and healthcare programs, as
    well as insurance companies and other private payers. In the
    United States, the federal and many state governments have
    adopted or proposed initiatives relating to Medicaid and other
    health programs that may limit reimbursement or increase rebates
    that Baxter and other providers are required to pay to the
    state. In addition to government regulation, managed care
    organizations in the United States, which include medical
    insurance companies, medical plan administrators,
    health-maintenance organizations, hospital and physician
    alliances and pharmacy benefit managers, continue to put
    pressure on the price and usage of healthcare products. Managed
    care organizations seek to contain healthcare expenditures, and
    their purchasing strength has been increasing due to their
    consolidation into fewer, larger organizations and a growing
    number of enrolled patients. Baxter faces similar issues outside
    of the United States. In Europe and Latin America, for example,
    the government provides healthcare at low cost to patients, and
    controls its expenditures by purchasing products through public
    tenders, regulating prices, setting reference prices in public
    tenders or limiting reimbursement or patient access to certain
    products.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    Patents and other proprietary rights are essential to
    Baxter’s business. Baxter relies on patents, trademarks,
    copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality
    agreements to develop, maintain and strengthen its competitive
    position. Baxter owns a number of patents and trademarks
    throughout the world and has entered into license arrangements
    relating to various third-party patents and technologies.
    Products manufactured by Baxter are sold primarily under its own
    trademarks and trade names. Some products distributed by the
    company are sold under the company’s trade names, while
    others are sold under trade names owned by its suppliers. Trade
    secret protection of unpatented confidential and proprietary
    information is also important to Baxter. The company maintains
    certain details about its processes, products and technology as
    trade secrets and generally requires employees, consultants,
    parties to collaboration agreements and other business partners
    to enter into confidentiality agreements.


 


    Baxter’s policy is to protect its products and technology
    through patents and trademarks on a worldwide basis. This
    protection is sought in a manner that balances the cost of such
    protection against obtaining the greatest value for the company.
    Baxter also recognizes the need to promote the enforcement of
    its patents and trademarks and takes commercially reasonable
    steps to enforce its patents and trademarks around the world
    against potential infringers, including judicial or
    administrative action where appropriate.


 


    Baxter operates in an industry susceptible to significant patent
    litigation. At any given time, the company is involved as either
    a plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement and
    other intellectual property-related actions. Such litigation can
    result in significant royalty or other payments or result in
    injunctions that





    
    3



 





    can prevent the sale of products. For more information on patent
    and other litigation, see Note 11 in Item 8 of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    Baxter’s investment in research and development (R&D)
    is essential to its future growth and its ability to remain
    competitive in each of its business segments. Accordingly,
    Baxter continues to focus its investment in R&D programs to
    enhance future growth through clinical differentiation.
    Expenditures for Baxter’s R&D activities were
    $915 million in 2010, $917 million in 2009 and
    $868 million in 2008. These expenditures include costs
    associated with R&D activities performed at the
    company’s R&D centers located around the world, which
    include facilities in Austria, Belgium, Japan and the United
    States, as well as in-licensing, milestone and reimbursement
    payments made to partners for R&D work performed at
    non-Baxter locations.


 


    Principal areas of strategic focus for R&D include
    recombinant and plasma-based therapeutics, vaccines, initiatives
    in regenerative medicine, kidney dialysis, formulation of small
    molecule drugs, enhanced packaging systems for medication
    delivery, and parenteral nutrition. The company’s research
    efforts emphasize self-manufactured product development, and
    portions of that research relate to multiple product categories.
    Baxter supplements its own R&D efforts by acquiring various
    technologies and entering into development and other
    collaboration agreements with third parties. For more
    information on the company’s R&D activities, refer to
    the discussion under the caption entitled “Research and
    Development” contained in Item 7 of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Quality
    Management


 


    Baxter’s success depends upon the quality of its products.
    Quality management plays an essential role in determining and
    meeting customer requirements, preventing defects, improving the
    company’s products and services and maintaining the
    integrity of the data that supports the safety and efficacy of
    the company’s products. Baxter has a network of quality
    systems throughout the company’s business units and
    facilities that relate to the design, development,
    manufacturing, packaging, sterilization, handling, distribution
    and labeling of the company’s products. To assess and
    facilitate compliance with applicable requirements, the company
    regularly reviews its quality systems to determine their
    effectiveness and identify areas for improvement. Baxter also
    performs assessments of its suppliers of raw materials,
    components and finished goods. In addition, the company conducts
    quality management reviews designed to inform management of key
    issues that may affect the quality of products and services.


 


    From time to time, the company may determine that products
    manufactured or marketed by the company do not meet company
    specifications, published standards, such as those issued by the
    International Organization for Standardization, or regulatory
    requirements. When a quality issue is identified, Baxter
    investigates the issue and takes appropriate corrective action,
    such as notice to the customer of revised labeling, correction
    of the product at the customer location, withdrawal of the
    product from the market and other actions. For more information
    on corrective actions taken by Baxter, refer to the discussion
    under the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory
    Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Government
    Regulation


 


    The operations of Baxter and many of the products manufactured
    or sold by the company are subject to extensive regulation by
    numerous government agencies, both within and outside the United
    States. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable
    Care Act was enacted in the United States. While this
    legislation provides for a number of changes in how companies
    are compensated for providing healthcare products and services,
    many of these changes will be implemented by regulations which
    have yet to be established. For more information on the expected
    impact of healthcare reform on the company, refer to the
    information under the caption “The implementation of
    healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect our
    business” in Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.




    
    4



 





    In the United States, the federal agencies that regulate the
    company’s facilities, operations, employees, products
    (their manufacture, sale, import and export) and services
    include: the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the
    Drug Enforcement Agency, the Environmental Protection Agency,
    the Occupational Health & Safety Administration, the
    Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Department of Justice, the
    Department of Labor, the Department of Defense, Customs and
    Border Protection, the Department of Commerce, the Department of
    Treasury and others. Because Baxter supplies products and
    services to healthcare providers that are reimbursed by
    federally funded programs such as Medicare, its activities are
    also subject to regulation by the Center for Medicare/Medicaid
    Services and enforcement by the Office of the Inspector General
    within the Department of Health and Human Services (OIG). State
    agencies in the United States also regulate the facilities,
    operations, employees, products and services of the company
    within their respective states. Outside the United States, the
    company’s products and operations are subject to extensive
    regulation by government agencies, including the European
    Medicines Agency (EMA) in the European Union. International
    government agencies also regulate public health, product
    registration, pricing, manufacturing, environmental conditions,
    labor, exports, imports and other aspects of the company’s
    global operations.


 


    The FDA in the United States, the EMA in Europe, and other
    government agencies inside and outside of the United States,
    administer requirements covering the testing, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and
    advertising, distribution and post-market surveillance of
    Baxter’s products. The company must obtain specific
    approval from the FDA and
    non-U.S. regulatory
    authorities before it can market and sell most of its products
    in a particular country. Even after the company obtains
    regulatory approval to market a product, the product and the
    company’s manufacturing processes are subject to continued
    review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities worldwide.


 


    The company is subject to possible administrative and legal
    actions by the FDA and other regulatory agencies inside and
    outside the United States. Such actions may include warning
    letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions,
    injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products,
    civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant
    approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal
    of existing approvals and licenses. From time to time, the
    company takes steps to ensure safety and efficacy of its
    products, such as removing products from the market found not to
    meet applicable requirements and improving the effectiveness of
    quality systems. For more information on compliance actions
    taken by the company, refer to the discussion under the caption
    entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7
    of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    Environmental policies of the company require compliance with
    all applicable environmental regulations and contemplate, among
    other things, appropriate capital expenditures for environmental
    protection.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2010, Baxter employed approximately
    48,000 people.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Baxter makes available free of charge on its website at
    www.baxter.com its Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably
    practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such
    material to the Securities and Exchange Commission.


 


    In addition, Baxter’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code
    of Conduct, and the charters for the required committees of
    Baxter’s board of directors are available on Baxter’s
    website at www.baxter.com under “Corporate Governance”
    and in print upon request by writing to: Corporate Secretary,
    Baxter International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield,
    Illinois 60015. Information contained on Baxter’s website
    shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.




    
    5



 








    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider
    the following risk factors. If any of the events described below
    occurs, our business, financial condition and results of
    operations and future growth prospects could suffer.


 



    If we
    are unable to successfully introduce new products or fail to
    keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial
    condition and results of operations could be adversely
    affected.


 


    The successful and timely implementation of our business model
    depends on our ability to adapt to changing technologies and
    introduce new products. As our competitors will continue to
    introduce competitive products, the development and acquisition
    of innovative products and technologies that improve efficacy,
    safety, patients’ and clinicians’ ease of use and
    cost-effectiveness are important to our success. The success of
    new product offerings will depend on many factors, including our
    ability to properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs,
    obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis, develop and
    manufacture products in an economic and timely manner, obtain or
    maintain advantageous positions with respect to intellectual
    property, and differentiate our products from those of our
    competitors. Failure by us to introduce planned products or
    other new products or to introduce products on schedule could
    have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 


    The development and acquisition of innovative products and
    technologies that improve efficacy, safety, patients’ and
    clinicians’ ease of use and cost-effectiveness involve
    significant technical and business risks. If we cannot adapt to
    changing technologies or anticipate changes in our current and
    potential customers’ requirements our products may become
    obsolete, and our business could suffer. Our success will
    depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our
    existing products, develop new technology that addresses the
    increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective
    customers, license or acquire leading technologies and respond
    to technological advances and emerging industry standards and
    practices on a timely and cost-effective basis.


 



    We are
    subject to a number of existing laws and regulations,
    non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations, and we are
    susceptible to a changing regulatory environment.


 


    As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and
    products, and those of our customers, are regulated by numerous
    government agencies, both inside and outside the United States.
    The impact of this on us is direct, to the extent we are subject
    to these laws and regulations, and indirect in that in a number
    of situations, even though we may not be directly regulated by
    specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be
    capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies
    with those laws and regulations.


 


    The manufacture, distribution, marketing and use of our products
    are subject to extensive regulation and increasing scrutiny by
    the FDA and other regulatory authorities both inside and outside
    the United States. Any new product must undergo lengthy and
    rigorous testing and other extensive, costly and time-consuming
    procedures mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory
    authorities. Our facilities must be approved and licensed prior
    to production and remain subject to inspection from time to time
    thereafter. Failure to comply with the requirements of the FDA
    or other regulatory authorities, including a failed inspection
    or a failure in our adverse event reporting system, could result
    in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary
    sanctions, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution
    of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a
    government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on
    operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. Any
    of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in us
    and our products, which could adversely affect our sales.


 


    We continue to address a number of regulatory issues as
    discussed further under the caption entitled “Certain
    Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    In connection with these issues, there can be no assurance that
    additional costs or civil and criminal penalties will not be
    incurred, that additional regulatory actions with respect to the
    company will not occur, that the company will not face civil
    claims for





    
    6



 





    damages from purchasers or users, that substantial additional
    charges or significant asset impairments may not be required,
    that sales of other products may not be adversely affected, or
    that additional regulation will not be introduced that may
    adversely affect the company’s operations and consolidated
    financial statements.


 


    The sales and marketing of our products and our relationships
    with healthcare providers are under increasing scrutiny by
    federal, state and foreign government agencies. The FDA, the
    OIG, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal
    Trade Commission have each increased their enforcement efforts
    (including joint efforts) with respect to the Anti-Kickback
    Statute, False Claims Act, off-label promotion of products,
    other healthcare related laws, antitrust and other competition
    laws. The DOJ also has increased its focus on the enforcement of
    the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), particularly
    as it relates to the conduct of pharmaceutical companies. The
    FCPA prohibits certain individuals and entities, including the
    company, from promising, offering, or giving anything of value
    to foreign officials with the intent of influencing the foreign
    official for the purpose of helping the company obtain or retain
    business or gain an improper advantage. Outside of the United
    States, our business involves significant interaction with
    foreign officials. The FCPA also imposes recordkeeping and
    internal controls requirements on the company. Foreign
    governments have also increased their scrutiny of pharmaceutical
    companies’ sales and marketing activities and relationships
    with healthcare providers. The laws and standards governing the
    promotion, sale and reimbursement of our products and those
    governing our relationships with healthcare providers and
    governments can be complicated, are subject to frequent change
    and may be violated unknowingly. We have compliance programs in
    place, including policies, training and various forms of
    monitoring, designed to address these risks. Nonetheless, these
    programs and policies may not always protect us from conduct by
    our employees that violate these laws. Violations, or
    allegations of violations, of these laws may result in large
    civil and criminal penalties, debarment from participating in
    government programs, diversion of management time, attention and
    resources and may otherwise have an adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations. Refer
    to Note 11 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for a discussion of the requests that the company received in
    2010 from certain federal government agencies.


 



    Issues
    with product quality could have an adverse effect upon our
    business, subject us to regulatory actions and costly litigation
    and cause a loss of customer confidence in us or our
    products.


 


    Our success depends upon the quality of our products. Quality
    management plays an essential role in determining and meeting
    customer requirements, preventing defects, improving the
    company’s products and services and maintaining the
    integrity of the data that supports the safety and efficacy of
    our products. Our future operating results will depend on our
    ability to implement and improve our quality management program,
    and effectively train and manage our employee base with respect
    to quality management. While we have a network of quality
    systems throughout our business units and facilities that relate
    to the design, development, manufacturing, packaging,
    sterilization, handling, distribution and labeling of our
    products, quality and safety issues may occur with respect to
    any of our products. In addition, some of the raw materials
    employed in our production processes are derived from human and
    animal origins. Though great care is taken to assure the safety
    of these raw materials, the nature of their origin elevates the
    potential for the introduction of pathogenic agents or other
    contaminants.


 


    A quality or safety issue could have an adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations and may
    result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary
    sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of
    products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government
    to grant approvals and licenses, restrictions on operations or
    withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. An inability to
    address a quality or safety issue in an effective and timely
    manner may also cause negative publicity, a loss of customer
    confidence in us or our current or future products, which may
    result in the loss of sales and difficulty in successfully
    launching new products. In addition, we may be named as a
    defendant in product liability or other lawsuits, which could
    result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant
    liabilities and diversion of our management’s time,
    attention and resources. We continue to be self-insured with
    respect to product liability claims. The absence of third-party
    insurance coverage for such claims increases our potential
    exposure to unanticipated claims and adverse decisions. Even
    claims without merit could subject us to adverse publicity and
    require us to incur significant legal fees.




    
    7



 





    For more information on regulatory matters currently being
    addressed by the company, refer to the discussion under the
    caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in
    Item 7 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Implementation
    of the FDA order to recall our COLLEAGUE infusion pumps in the
    United States may adversely affect our business.


 


    Pursuant to the Consent Decree entered into by the company in
    June 2006, the FDA issued a final order in July 2010 regarding
    the recall of the company’s COLLEAGUE infusion pumps
    currently in use in the United States. The company is executing
    the recall over the two years following the final order by
    offering its customers an option to replace their COLLEAGUE
    infusion pumps or receive monetary consideration. Under the
    replacement option, the company’s customers may receive the
    Sigma International General Medical Apparatus, LLC (SIGMA)
    Spectrum infusion pumps in exchange for their COLLEAGUE infusion
    pumps. For more information on the COLLEAGUE recall, refer to
    the discussion under the caption entitled “Certain
    Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    The company cannot be certain that SIGMA will have sufficient
    production capacity to meet the demand for SIGMA Spectrum
    infusion pumps. Customers choosing a refund or for whom
    sufficient replacement pumps are unavailable are likely to move
    to a competitive infusion pump platform. Many of the
    company’s COLLEAGUE customers also purchase a variety of
    the company’s other Medication Delivery products. If a
    significant number of COLLEAGUE customers move to a competitive
    pump platform, our business may suffer and sales of other
    products in the company’s Medication Delivery product
    portfolio may be adversely affected. In addition, it is possible
    that substantial additional cash and non-cash charges, including
    significant asset impairments related to the COLLEAGUE infusion
    pumps and related businesses, may be required in future periods
    based on new information, changes in estimates, the
    implementation of the recall in the United States, and other
    actions the company may be required to undertake in markets
    outside the United States.


 



    The
    implementation of healthcare reform in the United States may
    adversely affect our business.


 


    The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Act), which was
    signed into law in March 2010, includes several provisions which
    impact the company’s businesses in the United States,
    including increased Medicaid rebates and an expansion of the
    340B Drug Pricing Program which provides certain qualified
    entities, such as hospitals serving disadvantaged populations,
    with discounts on the purchase of drugs for outpatient use and
    an excise tax on the sale of certain drugs and medical devices.
    The company will also be required to pay a tax on the sales of
    its pharmaceutical products to the government beginning in 2011
    and a 2.3% tax on certain of its medical devices beginning in
    2013. The impact of the increased Medicaid rebates and the
    expanded 340B Drug Pricing Program is largely expected to impact
    the company’s Bioscience business, while the additional
    taxes are expected to impact each of the company’s business
    segments. We may also experience downward pricing pressure as
    the Act reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals.
    While it is intended to expand health insurance coverage and
    increase access to medical care generally, additional
    regulations need to be established to implement many of the
    Act’s provisions. As a result, the full impact of the Act
    is uncertain.


 



    If
    reimbursement for our current or future products is reduced or
    modified, our business could suffer.


 


    Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which
    the costs of our products are paid by health maintenance,
    managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar healthcare management
    organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration
    authorities, private health coverage insurers and other
    third-party payors. These healthcare management organizations
    and third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices
    charged for medical products and services. Additionally, as
    discussed above, the containment of healthcare costs has become
    a priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of
    drugs and other healthcare products have been targeted in this
    effort. We also face challenges, including austerity measures
    being taken by governments, in certain foreign markets where the
    pricing and profitability of our products generally are subject
    to government controls. Government controls in foreign markets
    also impact our ability to collect accounts receivable in a
    timely manner. Accordingly, our current and potential products
    may not be considered cost effective, and reimbursement to the
    consumer may not be available or sufficient to allow us to





    
    8



 





    sell our products on a competitive basis. Legislation and
    regulations affecting reimbursement for our products may change
    at any time and in ways that are difficult to predict and these
    changes may be adverse to us. Further reductions in Medicare,
    Medicaid or other third-party payor reimbursements could have a
    negative effect on our operating results.


 



    Consolidation
    in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


    There has been consolidation in our customer base, and by our
    competitors, which has resulted in pricing and sales pressures.
    As these consolidations occur, competition to provide products
    like ours will become more intense, and the importance of
    establishing relationships with key industry participants
    including GPOs, IDNs and other customers will become greater.
    Customers will continue to work and organize to negotiate price
    reductions for our products and services. To the extent we are
    forced to reduce our prices, our business will become less
    profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding
    reductions in costs. The company’s sales could be adversely
    affected if any of its contracts with its GPOs, IDNs or other
    customers are terminated in part or in their entirety, or
    members decide to purchase from another supplier.


 



    We
    face substantial competition and many of our competitors have
    significantly greater financial and other
    resources.


 


    Although no single company competes with us in all of our
    businesses, we face substantial competition in each of our
    segments from international and domestic healthcare and
    pharmaceutical companies of all sizes. Competition is primarily
    focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product
    performance, and technological innovation. Some competitors,
    principally large pharmaceutical companies, have greater
    financial, R&D and marketing resources than us. Competition
    may increase further as additional companies begin to enter our
    markets or modify their existing products to compete directly
    with ours. Greater financial, R&D and marketing resources
    may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new or
    emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements that
    may render our products obsolete or non-competitive. If our
    competitors develop more effective or affordable products, or
    achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization
    than we do, our operations will likely be negatively affected.


 


    We also face competition for marketing, distribution and
    collaborative development agreements, for establishing
    relationships with academic and research institutions, and for
    licenses to intellectual property. In addition, academic
    institutions, government agencies and other public and private
    research organizations may also conduct research, seek patent
    protection and establish collaborative arrangements for
    discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of
    products similar to ours. These companies and institutions
    compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific
    and management personnel as well as in acquiring technologies
    complementary to our programs. If we are unable to successfully
    compete with these companies and institutions, our business may
    suffer.


 



    The
    nature of producing plasma-based products may prevent us from
    timely responding to market forces and effectively managing our
    production capacity.


 


    The production of plasma-based products is a lengthy and complex
    process. Efforts to increase the collection of plasma may
    include the construction and regulatory approval of additional
    plasma collection facilities, which can be a lengthy regulatory
    and capital intensive process. As a result, our ability to match
    our collection and production of plasma-based products to market
    demand is imprecise and may result in a failure to meet the
    market demand of our plasma-based products or potentially an
    oversupply of inventory. Failure to meet market demand for our
    plasma-based products may result in customers transitioning to
    available competitive products resulting in a loss of segment
    share. In the event of an oversupply we may be forced to lower
    the prices we charge for some of our plasma-based products,
    close collection and processing facilities, record asset
    impairment charges or take other action which may adversely
    affect our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.




    
    9



 






    If we
    are unable to obtain sufficient components or raw materials on a
    timely basis or if we experience other manufacturing
    difficulties, our business may be adversely
    affected.


 


    The manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of
    sufficient amounts of quality components and materials. We
    manufacture our products in over 50 manufacturing facilities
    around the world. We acquire our components and materials from
    many suppliers in various countries. While efforts are made to
    diversify our sources of components and materials, in certain
    instances we acquire components and materials from a sole
    supplier. We work closely with our suppliers to ensure the
    continuity of supply but we cannot guarantee these efforts will
    continue to be successful. In addition, due to the regulatory
    environment in which we operate, we may be unable to quickly
    establish additional or replacement sources for some components
    or materials. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an
    inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could
    adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a
    timely or cost-effective manner, and our ability to make product
    sales.


 


    Many of our products are difficult to manufacture. This is due
    to the complex nature of manufacturing pharmaceuticals,
    including biologics, and devices as well as the strict
    regulatory regime governing our manufacturing operations.
    Variations in the manufacturing process may result in production
    failures which could lead to launch delays, product shortage,
    unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation.
    A failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior
    to the release of products to our customers may also result in
    warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary
    sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of
    products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government
    to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or
    withdrawal of existing approvals or licenses.


 


    Some of our manufacturing facilities are located in areas that
    are subject to hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural
    disasters. Loss or damage to a manufacturing facility could
    adversely affect our ability to manufacture sufficient
    quantities of key products to meet customer demand or
    contractual requirements which may result in a loss of revenue
    and other adverse business consequences. Because of the time
    required to approve and license a manufacturing facility a third
    party manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis to
    replace production capacity in the event we lose manufacturing
    capacity due to natural disaster, regulatory action or otherwise.


 



    If we
    are unable to protect our patents or other proprietary rights,
    or if we infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of
    others, our competitiveness and business prospects may be
    materially damaged.


 


    Patent and other proprietary rights are essential to our
    business. Our success depends to a significant degree on our
    ability to obtain and enforce patents and licenses to patent
    rights, both in the United States and in other countries. We
    cannot guarantee that pending patent applications will result in
    issued patents, that patents issued or licensed will not be
    challenged or circumvented by competitors, that our patents will
    not be found to be invalid or that the intellectual property
    rights of others will not prevent the company from selling
    certain products or including key features in the company’s
    products.


 


    The patent position of a healthcare company is often uncertain
    and involves complex legal and factual questions. Significant
    litigation concerning patents and products is pervasive in our
    industry. Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and
    validity of our patents on products or processes as well as
    allegations that our products infringe patents held by
    competitors or other third parties. A loss in any of these types
    of cases could result in a loss of patent protection or the
    ability to market products, which could lead to a significant
    loss of sales, or otherwise materially affect future results of
    operations.


 


    We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and
    know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive
    positions. While we protect our proprietary rights to the extent
    possible, we cannot guarantee that third parties will not know,
    discover or independently develop equivalent proprietary
    information or techniques, or that they will not gain access to
    our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public.
    Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we can maintain and protect
    unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets.
    Misappropriation or other loss of our intellectual property
    would have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may
    cause us to incur substantial litigation costs.




    
    10



 






    If our
    business development activities are unsuccessful, our business
    could suffer and our financial performance could be adversely
    affected.


 


    As part of our long-term growth strategy, we are engaged in
    business development activities including evaluating
    acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology
    licensing arrangements and other opportunities. These activities
    may result in substantial investment of the company’s
    resources. Our success developing products or expanding into new
    markets from such activities will depend on a number of factors,
    including our ability to find suitable opportunities for
    acquisition, investment or alliance; whether we are able to
    complete an acquisition, investment or alliance on terms that
    are satisfactory to us; the strength of the other company’s
    underlying technology, products and ability to execute its
    business strategies; any intellectual property and litigation
    related to these products or technology; and our ability to
    successfully integrate the acquired company, business, product,
    technology or research into our existing operations, including
    the ability to adequately fund acquired in-process research and
    development projects. If we are unsuccessful in our business
    development activities, we may be unable to meet our financial
    targets and our financial performance could be adversely
    affected.


 



    If we
    are unsuccessful in identifying growth opportunities or exiting
    low margin businesses or discontinuing low profit products, our
    business, financial condition and results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    Successful execution of our business strategy depends, in part,
    on improving the profit margins we earn with respect to our
    current and future products. A failure to identify and take
    advantage of opportunities that allow us to increase our profit
    margins or a failure by us to exit low profit margin businesses
    or discontinue low profit margin products, may result in us
    failing to meet our financial targets and may otherwise have an
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    We are
    subject to risks associated with doing business
    globally.


 


    Our operations, both inside and outside the United States, are
    subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally and
    under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions
    and geographies. These risks include fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates, changes in exchange controls, loss of business
    in government and public tenders that are held annually in many
    cases, nationalization, increasingly complex labor environments,
    expropriation and other governmental actions, availability of
    raw materials, changes in taxation, including legislative
    changes in United States and international taxation of income
    earned outside of the United States, importation limitations,
    export control restrictions, changes in or violations of
    U.S. or local laws, including the FCPA, dependence on a few
    government entities as customers, pricing restrictions, economic
    and political instability, disputes between countries,
    diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property,
    disruption or destruction of operations in a significant
    geographic region — due to the location of
    manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or
    customers — regardless of cause, including war,
    terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest, or natural
    or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire,
    earthquake, storm or disease. Failure to comply with the laws
    and regulations that affect our global operations could have an
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results
    of operations.


 



    We are
    subject to foreign currency exchange risk.


 


    In 2010, we generated approximately 60% of our revenue outside
    the United States. We anticipate that revenue from outside the
    United States will continue to be significant. As a result, our
    financial results may continue to be adversely affected by
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Market
    volatility and currency fluctuations may also reduce the
    benefits from our natural hedges and limit our ability to
    cost-effectively hedge against our foreign currency exposure.
    Governments may impose currency restrictions restricting our
    ability to manage our foreign currency exposure. We cannot
    predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange
    rates or the degree to which we can mitigate these risks. A
    discussion of the financial impact of foreign exchange rate
    fluctuations, and the ways and extent to which we attempt to
    mitigate such impact, including the impact of restrictions on
    currency exchange imposed by the Venezuelan government, is
    contained under the heading “Financial Instrument Market
    Risk” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.




    
    11



 






    We may
    experience difficulties implementing our new global enterprise
    resource planning system.


 


    We are engaged in a multi-year implementation of a new global
    enterprise resource planning system (ERP). The ERP is designed
    to accurately maintain the company’s books and records and
    provide information to the company’s management team
    important to the operation of the business. The company’s
    ERP has required, and will continue to require, the investment
    of significant human and financial resources. We may not be able
    to successfully implement the ERP without experiencing delays,
    increased costs and other difficulties. Any significant
    disruption or deficiency in the design and implementation of the
    ERP could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship
    product, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual
    obligations or otherwise operate our business.


 



    We are
    subject to a number of pending lawsuits.


 


    We are a defendant in a number of pending lawsuits, including
    with respect to patent and product liability matters, and could
    be subject to additional lawsuits in the future. See
    Note 11 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for more information regarding these lawsuits. Given the
    uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in all
    cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result
    from an unfavorable outcome of the litigation to which we are a
    party. In view of these uncertainties, we cannot assure that the
    outcome of these matters will not result in charges in excess of
    any established reserves, and, to the extent available,
    liability insurance. Protracted litigation, including any
    adverse outcomes, may have an adverse impact on the business,
    operations or financial condition of the company.


 



    Current
    or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our
    business and financial condition.


 


    The company’s ability to generate cash flows from
    operations could be affected if there is a material decline in
    the demand for the company’s products, in the solvency of
    its customers or suppliers, or deterioration in the
    company’s key financial ratios or credit ratings. Current
    or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our
    business and the business of our customers, including their
    ability to pay for our products and services, and the amount
    spent on healthcare generally. This could result in a decrease
    in the demand for our products and services, declining cash
    flows, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies
    and increased price competition. These conditions may also
    adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could cause a
    disruption in our ability to produce our products.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B