Item 1A. Risk Factors” all of
    which are available on the company’s website. In
    addition to these risks, upon the resolution of certain legal
    matters, Baxter may incur charges in excess of presently
    established reserves as



    
    6



 




    discussed in “Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 10 Legal Proceedings” of Baxter’s Annual
    Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2006. Any such charge
    could have a material adverse effect on Baxter’s results of
    operations or cash flows in the period in which it is recorded.


 


    Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the
    forward-looking statements. The company does not undertake to
    update its forward-looking statements.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider
    the following risk factors. If any of the events described below
    occurs, our business, financial condition and results of
    operations and future growth prospects could suffer.


 



    If we
    are unable to successfully introduce new products or fail to
    keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial
    condition and results of operations could be adversely
    affected.


 


    The successful and timely implementation of our business model
    depends on our ability to adapt to changing technologies and
    introduce new products. The success of new product offerings
    will depend on many factors, including our ability to properly
    anticipate and satisfy customer needs, obtain regulatory
    approvals on a timely basis, develop and manufacture products in
    an economic and timely manner, maintain advantageous positions
    with respect to intellectual property, and differentiate our
    products from those of our competitors. A failure by us to
    introduce planned products or other new products or to introduce
    these products on schedule could have an adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 


    The development and acquisition of innovative products and
    technologies that improve efficacy, safety, patients’ ease
    of use and cost-effectiveness are important to Baxter’s
    success. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our
    products may become obsolete, and our business could suffer.
    Because the healthcare industry is characterized by rapid
    technological change, we may be unable to anticipate changes in
    our current and potential customers’ requirements. Our
    success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to
    enhance our existing products, develop new technology that
    addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our
    prospective customers, license or acquire leading technologies
    and respond to technological advances and emerging industry
    standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis.
    The development of our proprietary technology entails
    significant technical and business risks.


 



    If we
    are unsuccessful in identifying growth opportunities in which to
    invest or if we are unsuccessful in exiting low margin
    businesses or products our business, financial condition and
    results could be adversely affected.


 


    Successful execution of our business strategy depends in part on
    improving the profit margins we earn with respect to our current
    and future products. A failure to identify and take advantage of
    opportunities which allow us to increase our profit margins or a
    failure by us to exit low profit margin businesses or terminate
    low profit margin products may result in us failing to meet our
    financial targets and may otherwise have an adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    We are
    subject to a number of existing laws and regulations,
    non-compliance with certain of which could adversely affect our
    business, financial condition and results of operations, and we
    are susceptible to a changing regulatory
    environment.


 


    As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and
    products, and those of our customers, are regulated by numerous
    governmental agencies, both within and outside the United
    States. The impact of this on us is direct, to the extent we are
    ourselves subject to these laws and regulations, and is also
    indirect in that in a number of situations, even though we may
    not be directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and
    regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our
    customers in a manner that complies with those laws and
    regulations.



    
    7



 



 


    The manufacture, distribution and marketing of our products are
    subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the FDA. Any new
    product must undergo lengthy and rigorous clinical testing and
    other extensive, costly and time-consuming procedures mandated
    by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. We may elect to
    delay or cancel our anticipated regulatory submissions for new
    indications for our current or proposed new products for a
    number of reasons. Failure to comply with the requirements of
    the FDA could result in warning letters, product recalls or
    seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture
    and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions,
    refusal of the government to grant approvals, restrictions on
    operations or withdrawal of existing approvals. Any of these
    actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in us and our
    products which could adversely affect our sales.


 


    We continue to address issues with our infusion pumps as
    discussed further under the caption entitled “COLLEAGUE
    Matter” in “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis”  of Baxter’s Annual
    Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2006. There can be no
    assurance that we will resolve these pump issues without
    incurring additional charges or facing any of the sanctions
    available to the FDA under the Consent Decree entered into with
    the United States concerning our infusion pumps. Third parties may file
    claims against us in connection these pump issues. In addition,
    our sales of other products may be adversely affected if we
    experience a loss of customer confidence as a result of these
    pump issues.


 


    In addition, the healthcare regulatory environment may change in
    a way that restricts our existing operations or our growth. The
    healthcare industry is likely to continue to undergo significant
    changes for the foreseeable future, which could have an adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. We cannot predict the effect of possible future
    legislation and regulation.


 



    If
    reimbursement for our current or future products is reduced or
    modified, our business would suffer.


 


    Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which
    the costs of our products are paid by health maintenance,
    managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar health care
    management organizations, or reimbursed by government health
    administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and
    other third-party payors. These health care management
    organizations and third-party payors are increasingly
    challenging the prices charged for medical products and
    services. Additionally, the containment of healthcare costs has
    become a priority of federal and state governments, and the
    prices of drugs have been targeted in this effort. We also face
    challenges in certain foreign markets where the pricing and
    profitability of our products generally are subject to
    government controls. Accordingly, our current and potential
    products may not be considered cost effective, and reimbursement
    to the consumer may not be available or sufficient to allow us
    to sell our products on a competitive basis. Legislation and
    regulations affecting reimbursement for our products may change
    at any time, including in ways that are adverse to us. Any
    reduction in Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payor
    reimbursements could have a negative effect on our operating
    results.


 



    Failure
    to provide quality products and services to our customers could
    have an adverse effect on our business and subject us to
    regulatory actions and costly litigation.


 


    Our future operating results will depend on our ability to
    implement and improve our quality management program, and
    effectively train and manage our employee base with respect to
    quality management. We place significant emphasis on providing
    quality products and services to our customers. Quality
    management plays an essential role in determining and meeting
    customer requirements, preventing defects and improving the
    company’s products and services. While Baxter has a network
    of quality systems throughout our business units and facilities,
    which relate to the design, development, manufacturing,
    packaging, sterilization, handling, distribution and labeling of
    our products, quality and safety issues may occur with respect
    to any of our products. A quality or safety issue could have an
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations and may result in any of the actions described in
the first paragraph above. In addition, we may be named
    as a defendant in product liability lawsuits, which could result
    in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and
    diversion of our management’s time, attention and
    resources. Even claims without merit could subject us to adverse
    publicity and require us to incur significant legal fees.



    
    8



 



 



    Consolidation
    in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


    There has been consolidation in our customer base, and by our
    competitors, which has resulted in pricing and sales pressures.
    As these consolidations occur, competition to provide products
    like ours will become more intense, and the importance of
    establishing relationships with key industry participants will
    become greater. Customers will continue to work and organize to
    negotiate price reductions for our products and services. To the
    extent we are forced to reduce our prices, our business will
    become less profitable unless we were able to achieve
    corresponding reductions in our expenses.


 



    If we
    are unable to protect our patents and other proprietary rights
    or infringe upon the patents or other proprietary rights of
    others, our competitiveness and business prospects may be
    materially damaged.


 


    Patent and other proprietary rights are essential to our
    business. Our success depends to a significant degree on our
    ability to obtain and enforce patents and licenses to patent
    rights, both in the U.S. and in other countries. The patent
    position of a healthcare company is often uncertain and involves
    complex legal and factual questions. Significant litigation
    concerning patents and products is pervasive in our industry.
    Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and validity of
    our patents on products or processes as well as allegations that
    our products infringe patents held by competitors or other third
    parties. A loss in any of these types of cases could result in a
    loss of patent protection or the ability to market products,
    which could lead to a significant loss of sales, or otherwise
    materially affect future results of operations.


 


    We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and
    know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive
    positions. While we protect our proprietary rights to the extent
    possible, we cannot guarantee that third parties will not know,
    discover or develop independently equivalent proprietary
    information or techniques, that they will not gain access to our
    trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public.
    Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we can maintain and protect
    unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets.
    Misappropriation of our intellectual property would have an
    adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to
    incur substantial litigation costs.


 



    We
    have many competitors, several of which have significantly
    greater financial and other resources.


 


    Although no single company competes with Baxter in all of its
    businesses, Baxter faces substantial competition in each of its
    segments, from international and domestic healthcare and
    pharmaceutical companies of all sizes. Competition is primarily
    focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product
    performance, and technological innovation. Some competitors,
    principally large pharmaceutical companies, have greater
    financial, research and development and marketing resources than
    Baxter. Competition may increase further as additional companies
    begin to enter our markets or modify their existing products to
    compete directly with ours. Greater financial, research and
    development and marketing resources may allow our competitors to
    respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes
    in customer requirements that may render our products obsolete
    or non-competitive.


 



    If our
    competitors develop more effective or affordable products, or
    achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization
    than we do, our operations will likely be negatively
    affected.


 


    We also face competition for marketing, distribution and
    collaborative development agreements, for establishing
    relationships with academic and research institutions, and for
    licenses to intellectual property. In addition, academic
    institutions, government agencies and other public and private
    research organizations also may conduct research, seek patent
    protection and establish collaborative arrangements for
    discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of
    products similar to ours. These companies and institutions
    compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific
    and management personnel as well as in acquiring technologies
    complementary to our programs.



    
    9



 



 



    We are
    subject to risks associated with doing business
    globally.


 


    Our operations, both within and outside the United States, are
    subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally and
    under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions
    and geographies. These risks include possible nationalization,
    expropriation, importation limitations, violations of
    U.S. or local laws, pricing restrictions, and other
    restrictive governmental actions or economic destabilization,
    instability, disruption or destruction in a significant
    geographic region — due to the location of
    manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or
    customers — regardless of cause, including war,
    terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest, and
    natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire,
    earthquake, storm or disease. Also, fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates can impact our consolidated financial
    results.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B