ITEM 1A —
RISK FACTORS

 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s actual results and future financial
condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such
forward-looking statements as a result of many factors that may be outside the
Company’s control. Such factors include the following:

 

General Economic Conditions

 

General
economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control impact the Company’s
forecasts and actual performance. These factors include housing markets,
recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt
levels, fuel and energy costs, interest rates, tax rates and policy,
unemployment trends, the impact of natural disasters and terrorist activities,
conditions affecting the retail environment for the home and other matters that
influence consumer spending. Changes in the economic climate could adversely
affect the Company’s performance.

 

Competition and Pricing Pressures

 

The
retail business is highly competitive. The Company competes for customers,
associates, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of the
business with many other local, regional and national retailers. Those
competitors range from specialty retail stores to department stores and
discounters. Unanticipated changes in the pricing and other practices of those
competitors, including promotional activity, may adversely affect the Company’s
performance.

 

Consumer Preferences and Demographic Factors

 

The
Company’s success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely
manner to changing merchandise trends, customer demands and demographics. The
Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in
customer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions
could lead to, among other things, excess inventories or a shortage of products
and could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition
and results of operations.

 

6












Table of Contents

 

Unusual Weather Patterns

 

The
Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by unusual weather
patterns. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, hurricanes,
floods, tornados or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures could
adversely affect the Company’s performance.

 

Cost of Labor, Merchandise and Other Expenses

 

The
Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to manage operating costs
and to look for opportunities to reduce costs. The Company’s ability to meet
its labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as
unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and
changing demographics. The Company’s ability to find qualified vendors and
obtain access to products in a timely and efficient manner can be adversely
affected by political instability, the financial instability of suppliers,
suppliers’ noncompliance with applicable laws, transportation costs and other
factors beyond the Company’s control.

 

Expansion Program

 

The
Company’s growth depends, in part, on its ability to open new stores and
operate profitably. The Company’s ability to open additional stores
successfully will depend on a number of factors, including its identification
and availability of suitable store locations; its success in negotiating leases
on acceptable terms; its hiring and training of skilled store operating
personnel, especially management; and its timely development of new stores,
including the availability of construction materials and labor and the absence
of significant construction and other delays in store openings based on weather
or other events. In addition, as the Company’s business continues to grow, it
is subject to more complex regulations and may be the target of private actions
alleging violations of such regulations. This increases the cost of doing
business and the risk that the Company’s business practices could result in
liabilities that may adversely affect its performance, despite the exercise of
reasonable care.

 

Auction Rate Securities

 

As
of February 27, 2010, the Company held approximately $178.6 million of net
investments in auction rate securities. These securities are invested in
preferred shares of closed end municipal bond funds, which are required,
pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940, to maintain minimum asset
coverage ratios of 200% and also are invested in securities collateralized by
student loans which are currently more than 100% collateralized and with
approximately 90% of such collateral in the aggregate being guaranteed by the
United States government. None of the auction rate securities held by the
Company are mortgage-backed debt obligations. Beginning in mid-February 2008,
the auction process for the Company’s auction rate securities failed and
continues to fail. These failed auctions result in a lack of liquidity in the
securities but do not affect the underlying collateral of the securities. All
of these investments carry triple-A credit ratings from one or more of the
major credit rating agencies and the Company believes that given their high
credit quality, it will ultimately recover at par all amounts invested in these
securities.

 

During fiscal 2008, the
Company entered into an agreement (the “Agreement”) with the investment firm
that sold the Company a portion of its auction rate securities which have a par
value of approximately $42.8 million at February 27, 2010. By entering into the
Agreement, the Company (1) received the right (“Put Option”) to sell these
auction rate securities back to the investment firm at par, at its sole
discretion, anytime during the period from June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012,
and (2) gave the investment firm the right to purchase these auction rate
securities or sell them on the Company’s behalf at par anytime after the
execution of the Agreement through July 2, 2012. As of February 27, 2010, the
fair value of this option was approximately $2.3 million. The Company
anticipates that any future changes in the fair value of the related auction
rate securities will be offset by the changes in the fair value of the Put
Option with no material impact to the consolidated statement of earnings.
Because the Company intends to exercise its right to redeem these securities as
soon as practicably possible during fiscal 2010, the fair value of these securities
of approximately $40.5 million and the related option of approximately $2.3
million were classified as short term investment securities as of February 27,
2010.

 

7











Table
of Contents

 

As
of February 27, 2010, the remainder of the Company’s investment in auction
rate securities of approximately $137.9 million at par had a temporary
valuation adjustment of approximately $2.1 million to reflect their current
lack of liquidity. Since this valuation adjustment is deemed to be temporary it
was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of a related
tax benefit, and did not affect the Company’s net earnings for fiscal 2009. The
Company does not anticipate that any potential lack of liquidity in these
auction rate securities, even for an extended period of time, will affect its
ability to finance its operations, including its expansion program and planned
capital expenditures. However, if the interest rate environment changes, the
Company may incur further temporary impairment losses. If uncertainties in the
credit and capital markets continue and these markets deteriorate further, the
Company may conclude that the decline in value is other than temporary and
incur realized losses, including up to the full amount of the investments in
auction rate securities, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial position,
cash flow and results of operations. During fiscal 2009 and 2008, approximately
$38.5 million and $107.6 million, respectively, of auction rate securities,
were redeemed at par. As of February 27, 2010, the Company classified approximately
$15.0 million of these securities as short term investment securities due to
expected redemptions at par during the first half of fiscal 2010. Subsequent to
the end of fiscal 2009 through April 22, 2010, the Company additionally redeemed
approximately $14.1 million of these securities at par. The classification and
valuation of these securities will continue to be reviewed quarterly.

 

Review of Equity Grants and Procedures and Related Matters

 

In
June 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors appointed a special committee
of independent directors with authority, among other things, to conduct an
investigation with respect to the setting of exercise prices for employee stock
options and related matters. The review identified various deficiencies in the
process of granting and documenting stock options and restricted shares. As a
result of the deficiencies, the Company revised the measurement dates for
various option grants.

 

The
Company’s past stock option granting procedures have exposed the Company to
risk factors that could have an adverse affect on the Company’s financial
condition, including any tax implications relating to the Company’s stock
option grants.

 

ITEM 1B