ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORS
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Such factors include the following:
 
General economic factors beyond the Company’s control and changes in the economic climate could adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
General economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control impact the Company’s forecasts and actual performance. These factors include housing markets, recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, fuel and energy costs, interest rates, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, the impact of natural disasters, civil disturbances and terrorist activities, conditions affecting the retail environment for the home and other matters that influence consumer spending. Changes in the economic climate could adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
7







Table of Contents
 
The Company operates in the highly competitive retail business where the use of emerging technologies as well as unanticipated changes in the pricing and other practices of competitors may adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
The retail business is highly competitive. The Company competes for customers, employees, locations, merchandise, technology, services and other important aspects of the business with many other local, regional and national retailers. Those competitors range from specialty retail stores to department stores and discounters as well as online and multi-channel retailers. Specifically, rapidly evolving technologies are altering the manner in which the Company and its competitors communicate and transact with customers, and the Company’s own omni channel strategy to adapt to these changes in relation to its competitors’ actions in doing so presents a specific risk. Further, unanticipated changes in the pricing and other practices of the Company’s competitors, including promotional activity, may adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
The Company’s failure to anticipate and respond in a timely fashion to changes in consumer preferences and demographic factors could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
 
The Company’s success depends on its ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing merchandise trends, customer demands and demographics. The Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in customer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions could lead to, among other things, excess inventories or a shortage of products and could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
 
Unusual weather patterns could adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by unusual weather patterns. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, hurricanes, floods, tornados or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures could adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
A major disruption of the Company’s information technology systems could negatively impact operating results.
 
The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by a major disruption of the Company’s information technology systems. The Company relies heavily on these systems to process transactions, manage inventory replenishment, summarize results and control distribution of products. Despite numerous safeguards and careful contingency planning, these systems are still subject to power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication failures, security breaches and other catastrophic events. A major disruption of the systems and their backup mechanisms may cause the Company to incur significant costs to repair the systems, experience a critical loss of data and result in business interruptions.
 
A privacy breach of the Company’s data security systems or those of its third party service providers could have a negative impact on the Company’s operating results and financial performance due to possible loss of consumer confidence, as well as potential government penalties and private litigation.
 
The Company stores certain information about its customers and employees in the ordinary course of business. The Company invests considerable resources in protecting this sensitive information but is still subject to a possible security event. A breach of its security systems or those of its third party service providers resulting in unauthorized access to stored personal information could negatively impact the Company’s operating results and financial performance. Certain aspects of the business, particularly the Company website, heavily depend on consumers entrusting personal financial information to be transmitted securely over public networks. A loss of consumer confidence could result in lost future sales and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation. In addition, a privacy breach could cause the Company to incur significant costs to restore the integrity of its systems, and could result in significant costs in government penalties and private litigation.
 
8






Table of Contents
 
A failure of the Company’s suppliers to adhere to appropriate laws or standards could negatively impact its reputation.
 
The Company purchases substantially all of its merchandise in the United States, the majority from domestic sources and the balance from importers. The Company purchases a small amount of its merchandise directly from overseas sources. The failure of one of the Company’s domestic or foreign suppliers to adhere to labor, environmental, health and safety laws and standards could negatively impact the Company’s reputation and have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.
 
Changes in statutory, regulatory, and other legal requirements at a local, state and national level could potentially impact the Company’s operating and financial results.
 
The Company is subject to numerous statutory, regulatory and legal requirements at a local, state and national level. The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by developments in these areas due to the costs of compliance in addition to possible government penalties and litigation in the event of deemed noncompliance. Changes in the regulatory environment in the area of product safety, environmental protection, privacy and information security, wage and hour laws, among others, could potentially impact the Company’s operations and financial results.
 
New, or developments in existing, litigation, claims or assessments could potentially impact the Company’s operating and financial results.
 
The Company is involved in litigation, claims and assessments incidental to the Company’s business, the disposition of which is not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in the Company’s assumptions related to these matters. While outcomes of such actions vary, any such claim or assessment against the Company could potentially impact the Company’s operations and financial results.
 
Changes to accounting rules, regulations and tax laws, or new interpretations of existing accounting standards or tax laws could negatively impact the Company’s operating results and financial position.
 
The Company’s operating results and financial position could be negatively impacted by changes to accounting rules and regulations or new interpretations of existing accounting standards. These changes may include, without limitation, changes to lease accounting standards. The Company’s effective income tax rate could be impacted by changes in accounting standards as well as changes in tax laws or the interpretations of these tax laws by courts and taxing authorities which could negatively impact the Company’s financial results.
 
The success of the Company is dependent, in part, on managing costs of labor, merchandise and other expenses that are subject to factors beyond the Company’s control.
 
The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to manage operating costs and to look for opportunities to reduce costs. The Company’s ability to meet its labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, labor organizing activities and changing demographics. The Company’s ability to find qualified vendors and obtain access to products in a timely and efficient manner can be adversely affected by political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ noncompliance with applicable laws, transportation costs and other factors beyond the Company’s control.
 
The Company depends upon its employees in all areas of the organization to execute its business plan and, ultimately, to satisfy its customers.
 
The Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified employees in all areas of the organization may be affected by a number of factors, including geographic relocation of employees, operations or facilities and the highly competitive markets in which the Company operates, including the markets for the types of skilled individuals needed to support the Company’s continued growth domestically, interactively and, over the longer term, internationally.
 
9






Table of Contents
 
The Company’s growth depends, in part, on its ability to open new stores, execute its interactive strategies and operate profitably.
 
The Company’s growth depends, in part, on its ability to open new stores, execute its interactive strategies and operate profitably. The Company’s ability to open additional stores successfully will depend on a number of factors, including its identification and availability of suitable store locations; its success in negotiating leases on acceptable terms; its hiring and training of skilled store operating personnel, especially management; and its timely development of new stores, including the availability of construction materials and labor and the absence of significant construction and other delays in store openings based on weather or other events. This increases the cost of doing business and the risk that the Company’s business practices could result in liabilities that may adversely affect its performance, despite the exercise of reasonable care.
 
The continued uncertainty in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to access its cash and cash equivalents.
 
The Company may have amounts of cash and cash equivalents at financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits. While the Company closely manages its cash and cash equivalents balances to minimize risk, with the current financial environment and instability of financial institutions, the Company can not be assured that it will not experience losses on its deposits.
 
The Company has acquired several businesses and continues to evaluate potential business initiatives, including acquisitions, any of which could adversely impact the Company’s performance.
 
The Company believes it carefully evaluates and plans for the integration of newly acquired businesses, as well as carefully prepares for and executes on other business combinations and strategic initiatives that are part of the growth of its business. However, such activities involve certain inherent risks, including the failure to retain key personnel from an acquired business; undisclosed or subsequently arising liabilities; challenges in the successful integration of operations, aligning standards, policies and systems; and the potential diversion of management resources from existing operations to respond to unforeseen issues arising in the context of the integration of a new business or initiative.
 
ITEM 1B