ITEM 1A —
RISK FACTORS

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Form 10-K contains forward looking statements within the meaning
of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s
actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those
expressed in any such forward looking statements as a result of many factors
that may be outside the Company’s control. Such factors include the following:

Consumer Preferences and Demographic Factors

The Company’s success depends on our ability to
anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing 


 6 






merchandise trends, customer demands and
demographics. The Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react
appropriately to changes in customer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and
other lifestyle decisions could lead to, among other things, excess inventories
or a shortage of products and could have a material adverse affect on the
Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

General Economic Conditions

General economic factors that are beyond the Company’s
control impact the Company’s forecasts and actual performance. These factors
include interest rates, recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit
availability, consumer debt levels, fuel and energy costs, tax rates and
policy, unemployment trends, the impact of natural disasters and terrorist
activities, and other matters that influence consumer spending. Changes in the
economic climate could adversely affect the Company’s performance.

Unusual Weather Patterns

The Company’s operating results could be negatively
impacted by unusual weather patterns. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or
rain storms, hurricanes, floods, tornados or extended periods of unseasonable
temperatures could adversely affect the Company’s performance.

Competition and Pricing Pressures

The retail business is highly competitive. The
Company competes for customers, associates, locations, merchandise, services
and other important aspects of the business with many other local, regional and
national retailers. Those competitors range from specialty retail stores to
department stores and discounters. Unanticipated changes in the pricing and
other practices of those competitors may adversely affect the Company’s
performance.

Cost of Labor, Merchandise and Other Expenses

The Company’s success depends, in part, on our
ability to manage operating costs and to look for opportunities to reduce
costs. The Company’s ability to meet its labor needs while controlling costs is
subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates,
minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. The Company’s ability to
find qualified vendors and obtain access to products in a timely and efficient
manner can be adversely affected by political instability, the financial
instability of suppliers, suppliers’ noncompliance with applicable laws,
transportation costs and other factors beyond the Company’s control.

Expansion Program

The Company’s growth depends, in part, on our
ability to open new stores and operate profitably.  Our ability to open additional stores successfully
will depend on a number of factors, including our identification and
availability of suitable store locations; our success in negotiating leases on
acceptable terms; our hiring and training of skilled store operating personnel,
especially management; and our timely development of new stores, including the
availability of construction materials and labor and the absence of significant
construction and other delays in store openings based on weather or other
events. In addition, as our business continues to grow, we are subject to more
complex state and federal regulations and may be the target of private actions
alleging violations of such regulations. 
This increases the cost of doing business and the risk that our business
practices could result in liabilities that may adversely affect the Company’s
performance, despite the exercise of reasonable care.

Review of Equity Grants and Procedures and Related Matters

In June 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors
appointed a special committee of independent directors with authority, among
other things, to conduct an investigation with respect to the setting of
exercise prices for employee stock options and related matters. The review
identified various deficiencies in the process of granting and documenting
stock options and restricted shares. As a result of the deficiencies, the
Company revised the 


 7 






measurement dates for various option grants. Counsel
to the special committee notified the SEC of the review. Following such
self-reporting, the SEC Staff commenced an informal inquiry and the United
States Attorney’s office for the District of New Jersey commenced an inquiry
regarding these matters. The Company is cooperating with these inquiries.

The Company’s past stock option granting process has
exposed the Company to risk factors that could have a material adverse affect
on the Company’s business and financial condition, including the outcome or any
other matters arising out of the inquiries commenced by the SEC or the United
States Attorney’s office for the District of New Jersey; the possibility that
the SEC or the United States Attorney’s office for the District of New Jersey
may not agree with all of the special committee’s findings and recommendations
as set forth in the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 10, 2006, and may require
additional or different remediation or may bring proceedings in respect of such
matters; any other proceedings which may be brought against the Company by
other governmental agencies;  any tax
implications relating to the Company’s stock option grants; the outcome of the
shareholder derivative actions filed against certain of the Company’s officers
and its directors; the possibility of other private litigation relating to such
stock option grants and related matters; and other matters arising out of or
related to the Company’s stock option grants and procedures and related
matters.

ITEM 1B