Item 1A.    

     

Risk Factors       


Item   1B.    

     

Unresolved   Staff Comments       


Item 2.    

     

Properties       


Item   3.    

     

Legal   Proceedings       


Item 4.    

     

Mine Safety   Disclosures       


     

     

        


     

     

PART II       


Item 5.    

     

Market for   Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases   of Equity Securities       


Item 6.    

     

Selected Financial   Data       


Item 7.    

     

Management’s   Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations       


Item 7A.    

     

Quantitative   and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk       


Item 8.    

     

Financial   Statements and Supplementary Data       


Item 9.    

     

Changes in and   Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure       


Item 9A.    

     

Controls and   Procedures       


Item   9B.    

     

Other   Information       


     

     

        


     

     

PART III       


Item 10.    

     

Directors,   Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       


Item 11.    

     

Executive   Compensation       


Item 12.    

     

Security   Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder   Matters       


Item 13.    

     

Certain   Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence       


Item 14.    

     

Principal   Accounting Fees and Services       


     

     

        


     

     

PART IV       


Item 15.    

     

Exhibits and   Financial Statement Schedules         
 
2






Table of Contents
 
PART I
 
Unless otherwise indicated, the term “Company” refers collectively to Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and subsidiaries as of February 25, 2012. The Company’s fiscal year is comprised of the 52 or 53 week period ending on the Saturday nearest February 28. Accordingly, fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 represented 52 weeks and ended on February 25, 2012, February 26, 2011 and February 27, 2010, respectively. Unless otherwise indicated, all references herein to periods of time (e.g., quarters and years) are to fiscal periods.
 
ITEM 1 - BUSINESS
 
Introduction
 
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) is a chain of retail stores, operating under the names Bed Bath & Beyond (“BBB”), Christmas Tree Shops (“CTS”), Harmon and Harmon Face Values (“Harmon”) and buybuy BABY. In addition, the Company is a partner in a joint venture which operates two stores in the Mexico City market under the name “Home & More.” The Company sells a wide assortment of domestics merchandise and home furnishings. Domestics merchandise includes categories such as bed linens and related items, bath items and kitchen textiles. Home furnishings include categories such as kitchen and tabletop items, fine tabletop, basic housewares, general home furnishings, consumables and certain juvenile products. The Company offers a breadth and depth of selection in most of its product categories that exceeds what is generally available in department stores or other specialty retail stores.
 
History
 
The Company was founded in 1971 by Leonard Feinstein and Warren Eisenberg, the Co-Chairmen of the Company. Each has more than 50 years of experience in the retail industry.
 
The Company commenced operations in 1971 with the opening of two stores, which primarily sold bed linens and bath accessories. In 1985, the Company introduced its first store carrying a full line of domestics merchandise and home furnishings. The Company began using the name “Bed Bath & Beyond” in 1987 in order to reflect the expanded product line offered by its stores and to distinguish its stores from conventional specialty retail stores offering only domestics merchandise or home furnishings. In March 2002, the Company acquired Harmon, a health and beauty care retailer, which operated 27 stores at the time located in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York. In June 2003, the Company acquired CTS, a retailer of giftware and household items, which operated 23 stores at the time located in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York and Rhode Island. In March 2007, the Company acquired buybuy BABY, a retailer of infant and toddler merchandise, which operated 8 stores at the time located in Maryland, New Jersey, New York and Virginia. In December 2007, the Company opened its first international BBB store in Ontario, Canada. In May 2008, the Company became a partner in a joint venture which operates two stores in the Mexico City market under the name “Home & More.”
 
Total net sales of the Company were $9.500 billion, $8.759 billion and $7.829 billion for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Net sales outside of the U.S. were not material for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009.  Refer to Part II, Item 7 and Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional financial information.
 
Operations
 
It is the Company’s goal to offer quality merchandise at everyday low prices; to maintain a wide assortment of merchandise; to present merchandise in a distinctive manner designed to maximize customer convenience and reinforce customer perception of wide selection; and to emphasize dedication to customer service and satisfaction.
 
Pricing. The Company believes in maintaining everyday low prices. The Company regularly monitors price levels at its competitors in order to ensure that its prices are in accordance with its pricing philosophy. The Company believes that the application of its everyday low price philosophy is an important factor in establishing its reputation among customers.
 
3






Table of Contents
 
Merchandise Assortment. The Company sells a wide assortment of domestics merchandise and home furnishings. Domestics merchandise includes categories such as bed linens and related items, bath items and kitchen textiles. Home furnishings include categories such as kitchen and tabletop items, fine tabletop, basic housewares, general home furnishings, consumables and certain juvenile products. The Company encourages local store personnel to tailor the merchandise mix as appropriate to respond to changing trends and conditions. The factors taken into account in selecting the merchandise mix for a particular store include store size, configuration and local market conditions, such as climate and demographics. The Company, on an ongoing basis, tests new merchandise categories and adjusts the categories of merchandise carried in its stores and may add new departments or adjust the size of existing departments as required. Additionally, the Company continues to integrate the merchandise assortments within its concepts. The Company believes that the process of adding new departments, integrating the Company’s merchandise within concepts, and expanding or reducing the size of various departments in response to changing conditions is an important part of its merchandising strategy.
 
Merchandise Presentation. The Company has developed a distinctive style of merchandise presentation. Primarily all of the Company’s stores have groups of related product lines presented together in separate areas of each store, creating the appearance that the store is comprised of several individual specialty stores for different product lines. The Company believes that this format of merchandise presentation makes it easy for customers to locate products, reinforces customer perception of wide selection and communicates to customers that its stores offer a level of customer service generally associated with smaller specialty stores.
 
The Company believes that its extensive merchandise selection, rather than fixturing, should be the focus of customer attention and, accordingly, primarily uses simple modular fixturing throughout its stores. This fixturing is primarily designed so that it can be easily reconfigured to adapt to changes in the store’s merchandise mix and presentation. The Company believes that its merchandise displays create an exciting and attractive shopping environment that encourages impulse purchases of additional items.
 
Advertising. In general, the Company relies on “word of mouth advertising,” its reputation for offering a wide assortment of quality merchandise at everyday low prices and the use of paid advertising. Primary vehicles of paid advertising used by the Company include full-color circulars and other advertising pieces distributed via direct mail or inserts, as well as digital media including email, mobile, social and search advertising. Also, to support the opening of new stores, the Company primarily uses “grand opening” newspaper advertising and email.
 
Customer Service. The Company places a strong focus on customer service and seeks to make shopping at its stores as pleasant and convenient as possible. Most stores are open seven days and six evenings a week in order to enable customers to shop at times that are convenient for them. In addition, the Company’s websites, www.bedbathandbeyond.com, www.christmastreeshops.com, www.harmondiscount.com, www.facevalues.com, www.buybuybaby.com and www.bedbathandbeyond.ca as well as the Company’s facebook pages are available for customers to access 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
 
Suppliers
 
In fiscal 2011, the Company purchased its merchandise from approximately 5,600 suppliers with the Company’s largest supplier accounting for approximately 8% of the Company’s merchandise purchases and the Company’s 10 largest suppliers accounting for approximately 22% of such purchases. The Company purchases substantially all of its merchandise in the United States, the majority from domestic sources and the balance from importers. The Company purchases a small amount of its merchandise directly from overseas sources.  The Company has no long term contracts for the purchase of merchandise. The Company believes that most merchandise, other than brand name goods, is available from a variety of sources and that most brand name goods can be replaced with comparable merchandise.
 
4






Table of Contents
 
Warehousing
 
The Company’s merchandise displays allow a substantial amount of merchandise to be displayed on the sales floor at all times. Merchandise not displayed on the sales floor is typically stored in warehouse space within the store. In addition, the Company maintains 12 supplemental storage locations as well as three central distribution centers. The majority of the Company’s merchandise is directly shipped to stores from vendors through third party carriers and service providers; the remainder of the Company’s merchandise is shipped to stores through its distribution centers.
 
In addition, the Company maintains two E-Service fulfillment centers.
 
Employees
 
As of February 25, 2012, the Company employed approximately 48,000 persons in full-time and part-time positions. The Company believes that its relations with its employees are very good and that the labor turnover rate among its management employees is lower than that generally experienced within the industry.
 
Seasonality
 
The Company’s sales exhibit seasonality with sales levels generally higher in the calendar months of August, November and December, and generally lower in February.
 
Expansion Program
 
The Company is engaged in an ongoing expansion program involving the opening of new stores in both new and existing markets, the expansion or relocation of existing stores and the continuous review of strategic acquisitions. In the 20 year period from the beginning of fiscal 1992 to the end of fiscal 2011, the Company has grown from 34 stores to 1,173 stores. The Company’s 1,173 stores operate in 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Canada, including: 993 BBB stores operating in 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Canada; 71 CTS stores operating in 20 states; 45 Harmon stores operating in four states; and 64 buybuy BABY stores operating in 26 states. Total square footage grew from approximately 0.9 million square feet at the beginning of fiscal 1992 to approximately 36.1 million square feet at the end of fiscal 2011. During fiscal 2011, the Company opened a total of 38 new stores, including 13 BBB stores throughout the United States and Canada and five CTS stores, one Harmon store and 19 buybuy BABY stores throughout the United States, and closed two BBB stores and two Harmon stores, all of which resulted in the aggregate addition of approximately 1.1 million square feet of store space. In addition, the Company is a partner in a joint venture which operates two stores in the Mexico City market under the name “Home & More.”
 
The Company intends to continue its expansion program and believes that the continued growth of the Company is dependent, in large part, on the success of this program. As part of its expansion program, the Company expects to open new stores and expand existing stores as opportunities arise. The Company believes throughout the United States and Canada, there is an opportunity to open in excess of 1,300 BBB stores as well as grow the CTS and buybuy BABY concepts from coast to coast.
 
In determining where to open new stores, the Company evaluates a number of factors, including the availability of real estate, demographic information (such as data relating to income and education levels, age and occupation) and distribution. The Company has built its management structure with a view toward its expansion and believes that, as a result, it has the management depth necessary to support its anticipated expansion program.
 
Competition
 
The Company operates in the fragmented and highly competitive retail industry. The Company competes with many different types of retail stores that sell many or most of the same products. Such competitors include but are not limited to: (i) department stores, which often carry many of the same product lines as the Company’s  stores but do not typically have the same depth or breadth of product selection, (ii) specialty stores, which often have a depth of product selection but typically carry only a limited portion of the product lines carried by the Company’s stores, (iii) discount and mass merchandise stores, (iv) national chains and (v) internet online only
 
5






Table of Contents
 
retailers. In addition, the Company’s stores compete, to a more limited extent, with factory outlet stores that typically offer limited quantities or limited lines of quality merchandise at discount prices. Other entities continue to introduce new concepts that include many of the product lines carried by the Company’s stores. There can be no assurance that the operation of competitors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
Tradenames and Service Marks
 
The Company uses the “Bed Bath & Beyond” name and logo and the “Beyond any store of its kind” tag line as service marks in connection with retail services. The Company has registered these marks and others, including names and logos of CTS, Harmon and buybuy BABY, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The Company also has registered or has applications pending with the trademark registries of several foreign countries, including having registered the “Bed Bath & Beyond” name and logo and the “Beyond any store of its kind” tag line in Canada. Management believes that its name recognition and service marks are important elements of the Company’s merchandising strategy.
 
Available Information
 
The Company makes available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), free of charge, through its website, www.bedbathandbeyond.com, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, electronically filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Executive Officers of the Registrant
 
The following table sets forth the name, age and business experience of the Executive Officers of the Registrant:
 



Name    

     

Age    

     

Positions       


     

     

     

     

        


Warren   Eisenberg    

     

81    

     

Co-Chairman   and Director       


     

     

     

     

        


Leonard   Feinstein    

     

75    

     

Co-Chairman   and Director       


     

     

     

     

        


Steven   H. Temares    

     

53    

     

Chief   Executive Officer and Director       


     

     

     

     

        


Arthur   Stark    

     

56    

     

President   and Chief Merchandising Officer       


     

     

     

     

        


Matthew   Fiorilli    

     

55    

     

Senior   Vice President — Stores       


     

     

     

     

        


Eugene   A. Castagna    

     

46    

     

Chief   Financial Officer and Treasurer         
 
Warren Eisenberg is a Co-Founder of the Company and has served as Co-Chairman since 1999. He has served as a Director since 1971. Mr. Eisenberg served as Chairman from 1992 to 1999, and served as Co-Chief Executive Officer from 1971 to 2003.
 
Leonard Feinstein is a Co-Founder of the Company and has served as Co-Chairman since 1999. He has served as a Director since 1971. Mr. Feinstein served as President from 1992 to 1999, and served as Co-Chief Executive Officer from 1971 to 2003.
 
Steven H. Temares has been Chief Executive Officer since 2003 and has served as a Director since 1999. Mr. Temares was President and Chief Executive Officer from 2003 to 2006, President and Chief Operating Officer from 1999 to 2003 and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from 1997 to 1999. Mr. Temares joined the Company in 1992.
 
6






Table of Contents
 
Arthur Stark has been President and Chief Merchandising Officer since 2006. Mr. Stark has served as Chief Merchandising Officer since 1999 and was a Senior Vice President from 1999 to 2006. Mr. Stark joined the Company in 1977.
 
Matthew Fiorilli has been Senior Vice President - Stores since 1999. Mr. Fiorilli joined the Company in 1973.
 
Eugene A. Castagna has been Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since 2006. Mr. Castagna served as Assistant Treasurer from 2002 to 2006 and as Vice President - Finance from 2000 to 2006. Mr. Castagna is a certified public accountant and joined the Company in 1994.
 
The Company’s executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors for one-year terms and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. No family relationships exist between any of the executive officers or directors of the Company.
 
ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORS
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Such factors include the following:
 
General economic factors beyond the Company’s control and changes in the economic climate could adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
General economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control impact the Company’s forecasts and actual performance. These factors include housing markets, recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, fuel and energy costs, interest rates, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, the impact of natural disasters, civil disturbances and terrorist activities, conditions affecting the retail environment for the home and other matters that influence consumer spending. Changes in the economic climate could adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
The Company operates in the highly competitive retail business where any unanticipated changes in the pricing and other practices of competitors may adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
The retail business is highly competitive. The Company competes for customers, employees, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of the business with many other local, regional and national retailers. Those competitors range from specialty retail stores to department stores, discounters and internet online retailers. Unanticipated changes in the pricing and other practices of those competitors, including promotional activity, may adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
The Company’s failure to anticipate and respond in a timely fashion to changes in consumer preferences and demographic factors could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
 
The Company’s success depends on its ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing merchandise trends, customer demands and demographics. The Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in customer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions could lead to, among other things, excess inventories or a shortage of products and could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
 
7






Table of Contents
 
Unusual weather patterns could adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by unusual weather patterns. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, hurricanes, floods, tornados or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures could adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
A major disruption of the Company’s information technology systems could negatively impact operating results.
 
The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by a major disruption of the Company’s information technology systems. The Company relies heavily on these systems to process transactions, manage inventory replenishment, summarize results and control distribution of products. Despite numerous safeguards and careful contingency planning, the system is still subject to power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication failures, security breaches and other catastrophic events. A major disruption of the system and its backup mechanisms may cause the Company to incur significant costs to repair the systems, experience a critical loss of data and result in business interruptions.
 
A privacy breach of the Company’s data security systems or those of its third party service providers could have a negative impact on the Company’s operating results and financial performance due to possible loss of consumer confidence, as well as potential government penalties and private litigation.
 
The Company stores certain information about its customers and employees in the ordinary course of business. The Company invests considerable resources in protecting this sensitive information but is still subject to a possible security event. A breach of its security systems or those of its third party service providers resulting in unauthorized access to stored personal information could negatively impact the Company’s operating results and financial performance. Certain aspects of the business, particularly the Company website, heavily depend on consumers entrusting personal financial information to be transmitted securely over public networks. A loss of consumer confidence could result in lost future sales and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation. In addition, a privacy breach could cause the Company to incur significant costs to restore the integrity of its systems, and could result in significant costs in government penalties and private litigation.
 
A failure of the Company’s suppliers to adhere to appropriate laws or standards could negatively impact its reputation.
 
The Company purchases substantially all of its merchandise in the United States, the majority from domestic sources and the balance from importers.  The Company purchases a small amount of its merchandise directly from overseas sources.  The failure of one of the Company’s domestic or foreign suppliers to adhere to labor, environmental, health and safety laws and standards could negatively impact the Company’s reputation and have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.
 
Changes in statutory, regulatory, and other legal requirements at a local, state and national level could potentially impact the Company’s operating and financial results.
 
The Company is subject to numerous statutory, regulatory and legal requirements at a local, state and national level. The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by developments in these areas due to the costs of compliance in addition to possible government penalties and litigation in the event of deemed noncompliance. Changes in the regulatory environment in the area of product safety, environmental protection, privacy and information security, wage and hour laws, among others, could potentially impact the Company’s operations and financial results.
 
8






Table of Contents
 
Changes to accounting rules, regulations and tax laws, or new interpretations of existing accounting standards or tax laws could negatively impact the Company’s operating results and financial position.
 
The Company’s operating results and financial position could be negatively impacted by changes to accounting rules and regulations or new interpretations of existing accounting standards. These changes may include, without limitation, changes to lease accounting standards.  The Company’s effective income tax rate could be impacted by changes in accounting standards as well as changes in tax laws or the interpretations of these tax laws by courts and taxing authorities which could negatively impact the Company’s financial results.
 
The success of the Company is dependent, in part, on managing costs of labor, merchandise and other expenses that are subject to factors beyond the Company’s control.
 
The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to manage operating costs and to look for opportunities to reduce costs. The Company’s ability to meet its labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, labor organizing activities and changing demographics. The Company’s ability to find qualified vendors and obtain access to products in a timely and efficient manner can be adversely affected by political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ noncompliance with applicable laws, transportation costs and other factors beyond the Company’s control.
 
The Company depends upon its employees in all areas of the organization to execute its business plan and, ultimately, to satisfy its customers.
 
The Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified employees in all areas of the organization may be affected by a number of factors, including geographic relocation of employees, operations or facilities and the highly competitive markets in which the Company operates, including the markets for the types of skilled individuals needed to support the Company’s continued growth domestically, interactively and, over the longer term, internationally.
 
The Company’s growth depends, in part, on its ability to open new stores, execute its interactive strategies and operate profitably.
 
The Company’s growth depends, in part, on its ability to open new stores, execute its interactive strategies and operate profitably. The Company’s ability to open additional stores successfully will depend on a number of factors, including its identification and availability of suitable store locations; its success in negotiating leases on acceptable terms; its hiring and training of skilled store operating personnel, especially management; and its timely development of new stores, including the availability of construction materials and labor and the absence of significant construction and other delays in store openings based on weather or other events. This increases the cost of doing business and the risk that the Company’s business practices could result in liabilities that may adversely affect its performance, despite the exercise of reasonable care.
 
The continued uncertainty in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to access its cash and cash equivalents.
 
The Company may have amounts of cash and cash equivalents at financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits.  While the Company closely manages its cash and cash equivalents balances to minimize risk, with the current financial environment and instability of financial institutions, the Company can not be assured that it will not experience losses on its deposits.
 
Funds associated with auction rate securities held by the Company may not be liquid or readily available.
 
The Company’s investment in securities consists partially of auction rate securities that are not currently liquid or readily available to convert to cash and, therefore, the Company has classified such auction rate securities as long term investment securities.  The Company does not anticipate that any potential lack of liquidity in these auction rate securities, even for an extended period of time, will affect its ability to finance its operations, including its expansion program, share repurchase program and planned capital expenditures. However, if the interest rate environment changes, the Company may incur further temporary impairment losses.
 
9






Table of Contents
 
If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue and these markets deteriorate further, the Company may conclude that the decline in value is other than temporary and incur realized losses, including up to the full amount of the investments in auction rate securities, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial position, cash flow and results of operations.
 
ITEM 1B