ITEM 1A –
RISK FACTORS

 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s actual results and future financial
condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such
forward-looking statements as a result of many factors that may be outside the
Company’s control. Such factors include the following:

 

General Economic Conditions

 

General
economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control impact the Company’s
forecasts and actual performance. These factors include housing markets,
recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt
levels, fuel and energy costs, interest rates, tax rates and policy,
unemployment trends, the impact of natural disasters and terrorist activities,
conditions affecting the retail environment for the home and other matters that
influence consumer spending. Changes in the economic climate could adversely
affect the Company’s performance.

 

Competition and Pricing Pressures

 

The
retail business is highly competitive. The Company competes for customers,
associates, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of the
business with many other local, regional and national retailers. Those
competitors range from specialty retail stores to department stores and
discounters. Unanticipated changes in the pricing and other practices of those
competitors, including promotional activity, may adversely affect the Company’s
performance.

 

Consumer Preferences and Demographic Factors

 

The
Company’s success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely
manner to changing merchandise trends, customer demands and demographics. The
Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in
customer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions
could lead to, among other things, excess inventories or a shortage of products
and could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition
and results of operations.

 

6












 

Unusual Weather Patterns

 

The
Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by unusual weather
patterns. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, hurricanes,
floods, tornados or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures could
adversely affect the Company’s performance.

 

Cost of Labor, Merchandise and Other Expenses

 

The
Company’s success depends, in part, on our ability to manage operating costs
and to look for opportunities to reduce costs. The Company’s ability to meet
its labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as
unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and
changing demographics. The Company’s ability to find qualified vendors and
obtain access to products in a timely and efficient manner can be adversely
affected by political instability, the financial instability of suppliers,
suppliers’ noncompliance with applicable laws, transportation costs and other
factors beyond the Company’s control.

 

Expansion Program

 

The
Company’s growth depends, in part, on our ability to open new stores and
operate profitably. Our ability to open additional stores successfully will
depend on a number of factors, including our identification and availability of
suitable store locations; our success in negotiating leases on acceptable
terms; our hiring and training of skilled store operating personnel, especially
management; and our timely development of new stores, including the
availability of construction materials and labor and the absence of significant
construction and other delays in store openings based on weather or other events.
In addition, as our business continues to grow, we are subject to more complex
state and federal regulations and may be the target of private actions alleging
violations of such regulations. This increases the cost of doing business and
the risk that our business practices could result in liabilities that may
adversely affect the Company’s performance, despite the exercise of reasonable
care.

 

Auction Rate Securities

 

The
Company has investments in auction rate securities. These securities are
invested in preferred shares of closed end municipal bond funds, which are
required, pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940, to maintain minimum
asset coverage ratios of 200% and also are invested in securities
collateralized by student loans which are currently more than 100%
collateralized and with approximately 90% of such collateral in the aggregate
being guaranteed by the United States government. None of the auction rate
securities held by the Company are mortgage-backed debt obligations. Due to
current market conditions, these investments have experienced failed auctions
beginning in mid-February 2008. These failed auctions result in a lack of
liquidity in the securities, but do not affect the underlying collateral of the
securities. All of these investments carry triple-A credit ratings from one or
more of the major credit rating agencies and the Company believes that given
their high credit quality, it will ultimately recover at par all amounts
invested in these securities. Included in its long term investment securities
are approximately $326.7 million par value of auction rate securities, less a
temporary valuation adjustment of approximately $7.2 million to reflect the
current lack of liquidity of these investments. The Company recorded this temporary
valuation adjustment in other comprehensive income, net of the related tax
benefit of $2.7 million, which did not affect fiscal 2007 earnings, and
reclassified these investments to long term investment securities to reflect
the current lack of liquidity of these investments. The Company does not
anticipate that any potential lack of liquidity in these auction rate
securities, even for an extended period of time, will affect its ability to
finance its operations, including its expansion program and planned capital
expenditures. The Company continues to monitor efforts by the financial markets
to find alternative means for restoring the liquidity of these investments,
including the recent announcements by certain asset managers to redeem a
portion of their outstanding auction rate securities. However, if the interest
rate environment changes, the Company may incur further unrealized losses. If
uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue and these markets
deteriorate further, the Company may conclude that the decline in value is
other than temporary and incur realized losses, including up to the full amount
of the investments in auction rate securities, which could negatively affect
the Company’s financial condition, cash flow and results of operations.

 

7












 

Review of Equity Grants and Procedures and Related Matters

 

In
June 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors appointed a special committee
of independent directors with authority, among other things, to conduct an
investigation with respect to the setting of exercise prices for employee stock
options and related matters. The review identified various deficiencies in the
process of granting and documenting stock options and restricted shares. As a
result of the deficiencies, the Company revised the measurement dates for
various option grants. Counsel to the special committee notified the SEC of the
review. Following such self-reporting, the SEC Staff commenced an informal
inquiry and the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey
commenced an inquiry regarding these matters. During fiscal 2007, the United
States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey concluded its inquiry
and indicated it will take no further action related to this matter. The
Company continues to cooperate with the SEC in conjunction with its inquiry.

 

The
Company’s past stock option granting process has exposed the Company to risk
factors that could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business and
financial condition, including the outcome of the informal inquiry commenced by
the SEC; the possibility that the SEC may not agree with all of the special
committee’s findings and recommendations as set forth in the Company’s Form 8-K
filed October 10, 2006, and may require additional or different
remediation; any other proceedings which may be brought against the Company by
the SEC or other governmental agencies; any tax implications relating to the
Company’s stock option grants; the outcome of a shareholder derivative action
filed against certain of the Company’s officers and directors and related
matters; and the possibility of other private litigation relating to such stock
option grants and related matters.

 

ITEM 1B