ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORS
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors that may be outside the Company’s control. Such factors include the following:
 
General Economic Conditions
 
General economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control impact the Company’s forecasts and actual performance. These factors include housing markets, recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, fuel and energy costs, interest rates, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, the impact of natural disasters and terrorist activities, conditions affecting the retail environment for the home and other matters that influence consumer spending. Changes in the economic climate could adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
Competition and Pricing Pressures
 
The retail business is highly competitive. The Company competes for customers, associates, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of the business with many other local, regional and national retailers. Those competitors range from specialty retail stores to department stores, discounters and internet online retailers. Unanticipated changes in the pricing and other practices of those competitors, including promotional activity, may adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
Consumer Preferences and Demographic Factors
 
The Company’s success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing merchandise trends, customer demands and demographics. The Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in customer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions could lead to, among other things, excess inventories or a shortage of products and could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
 
6






Table of Contents
 
Unusual Weather Patterns
 
The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by unusual weather patterns. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, hurricanes, floods, tornados or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures could adversely affect the Company’s performance.
 
Information Technology Systems
 
The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by a major disruption of the Company’s information technology systems. The Company relies heavily on these systems to process transactions, manage inventory replenishment, summarize results and control distribution of products. Despite numerous safeguards and careful contingency planning, the system is still subject to power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication failures, security breaches and other catastrophic events. A major disruption of the system and its backup mechanisms may cause the Company to incur significant costs to repair the system, experience a critical loss of data and result in business interruptions.
 
Consumer and Employee Information Privacy
 
The Company stores certain information about its customers and employees in the ordinary course of business. The Company invests considerable resources in protecting this sensitive information but is still subject to a possible security event. A breach of our security systems resulting in unauthorized access to stored personal information could negatively impact the Company’s operating results and financial performance. Certain aspects of the business, particularly the Company website, heavily depend on consumers entrusting personal financial information to be transmitted securely over public networks. A loss of consumer confidence could result in lost future sales and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation. In addition, a privacy breach could cause the Company to incur significant costs to restore the integrity of its system, and could result in significant costs in government penalties and private litigation.
 
Statutory, Regulatory and Other Legal Developments
 
The Company is subject to numerous statutory, regulatory and legal requirements at a local, state and national level. The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by developments in these areas due to the costs of compliance in addition to possible government penalties and litigation in the event of deemed noncompliance. Changes in the regulatory environment in the area of product safety, environmental protection, privacy and information security, wage and hour laws, among others, could potentially impact the Company’s operations and financial results.
 
Accounting and Tax Rules and Regulations
 
The Company’s operating results and financial position could be negatively impacted by changes to accounting rules and regulations or new interpretations of existing accounting standards. These changes may include, without limitation, changes to lease accounting standards. The Company’s effective income tax rate could be impacted by changes in accounting standards as well as changes in tax laws or the interpretations of these tax laws by courts and taxing authorities which could negatively impact the Company’s financial results.
 
Cost of Labor, Merchandise and Other Expenses
 
The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to manage operating costs and to look for opportunities to reduce costs. The Company’s ability to meet its labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. The Company’s ability to find qualified vendors and obtain access to products in a timely and efficient manner can be adversely affected by political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ noncompliance with applicable laws, transportation costs and other factors beyond the Company’s control.
 
7






Table of Contents
 
Expansion Program
 
The Company’s growth depends, in part, on its ability to open new stores and operate profitably. The Company’s ability to open additional stores successfully will depend on a number of factors, including its identification and availability of suitable store locations; its success in negotiating leases on acceptable terms; its hiring and training of skilled store operating personnel, especially management; and its timely development of new stores, including the availability of construction materials and labor and the absence of significant construction and other delays in store openings based on weather or other events. This increases the cost of doing business and the risk that the Company’s business practices could result in liabilities that may adversely affect its performance, despite the exercise of reasonable care.
 
Auction Rate Securities
 
As of February 26, 2011, the Company held approximately $109.7 million of net investments in auction rate securities. These securities are invested in preferred shares of closed end municipal bond funds, which are required, pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940, to maintain minimum asset coverage ratios of 200%. None of the auction rate securities held by the Company are mortgage-backed debt obligations. Beginning in mid-February 2008, the auction process for the Company’s auction rate securities failed and continues to fail. These failed auctions result in a lack of liquidity in the securities but do not affect the underlying collateral of the securities. All of these investments carry triple-A credit ratings from one or more of the major credit rating agencies and the Company believes that given their high credit quality, it will ultimately recover at par all amounts invested in these securities.
 
These securities of approximately $112.9 million at par had a temporary valuation adjustment of approximately $3.2 million to reflect their current lack of liquidity. Since this valuation adjustment is deemed to be temporary it was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of a related tax benefit, and did not affect the Company’s net earnings for fiscal 2010. The Company does not anticipate that any potential lack of liquidity in these auction rate securities, even for an extended period of time, will affect its ability to finance its operations, including its expansion program, share repurchase program and planned capital expenditures. However, if the interest rate environment changes, the Company may incur further temporary impairment losses. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue and these markets deteriorate further, the Company may conclude that the decline in value is other than temporary and incur realized losses, including up to the full amount of the investments in auction rate securities, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial position, cash flow and results of operations. During fiscal 2010 and 2009, approximately $25.0 million and $38.5 million, respectively, of these auction rate securities, were redeemed at par. As of February 26, 2011, the Company classified approximately $5.8 million of these securities as short term investment securities due to expected redemptions at par during fiscal 2011. Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2010 through April 15, 2011, the Company additionally redeemed approximately $5.8 million of these securities at par. The classification and valuation of these securities will continue to be reviewed quarterly.
 
ITEM 1B