Item 1A.
  
  
   
  
  
  Risk Factors
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  1B.
  
  
   
  
  
  Unresolved
  Staff Comments
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  2.
  
  
   
  
  
  Properties
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  3.
  
  
   
  
  
  Legal
  Proceedings
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  4.
  
  
   
  
  
  Submission
  of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  PART II
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  5.
  
  
   
  
  
  Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity,
  Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  6.
  
  
   
  
  
  Selected
  Financial Data
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  7.
  
  
   
  
  
  Management’s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 7A.
  
  
   
  
  
  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
  About Market Risk
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 8.
  
  
   
  
  
  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 9.
  
  
   
  
  
  Changes in and Disagreements with
  Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 9A.
  
  
   
  
  
  Controls and Procedures
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 9B.
  
  
   
  
  
  Other Information
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  PART III
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 10.
  
  
   
  
  
  Directors and Executive Officers of the
  Registrant
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 11.
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive Compensation
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 12.
  
  
   
  
  
  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
  Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 13.
  
  
   
  
  
  Certain Relationships and Related
  Transactions
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 14.
  
  
   
  
  
  Principal
  Accounting Fees and Services
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  PART IV
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 15.
  
  
   
  
  
  Exhibits and
  Financial Statement Schedules
  
  
   
  
 


 

2












 

PART I

 

Unless otherwise indicated, the term “Company”
refers collectively to Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and subsidiaries as of February 25,
2006. The Company’s fiscal year is comprised of the 52 or 53 week period ending
on the Saturday nearest February 28. Accordingly, fiscal 2005, 2004 and
2003 represented 52 weeks and ended on February 25, 2006, February 26,
2005 and February 28, 2004, respectively. Unless otherwise indicated, all
references herein to periods of time (e.g., quarters and years) are to fiscal
periods.

 

ITEM 1 - BUSINESS

 

Introduction

 

Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”)
is a nationwide chain of retail stores, operating under the names Bed Bath &
Beyond (“BBB”), Christmas Tree Shops (“CTS”) and Harmon. The Company sells a
wide assortment of merchandise principally including domestics merchandise and
home furnishings as well as food, giftware and health and beauty care items.
The Company believes that it is the nation’s largest operator of stores selling
predominantly domestics merchandise and home furnishings while offering a
breadth and depth of selection in most of its product categories that exceeds
what is generally available in department stores or other specialty retail
stores.

 

History

 

The Company was founded in 1971 by Leonard Feinstein and Warren Eisenberg,
the Co-Chairmen of the Company. Each has more than 45 years of experience in
the retail industry.

 

The Company commenced operations in 1971 with the opening of two
stores, which primarily sold bed linens and bath accessories. In 1985, the
Company introduced its first store carrying a full line of domestics
merchandise and home furnishings. The Company began using the name “Bed Bath &
Beyond” in 1987 in order to reflect the expanded product line offered by its
stores and to distinguish its stores from conventional specialty retail stores
offering only domestics merchandise or home furnishings. In June 2003, the
Company acquired CTS, a retailer of giftware and household items, which
operated 23 stores located in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire,
New York and Rhode Island. In March 2002, the Company acquired Harmon, a
health and beauty care retailer, which operated 27 stores located in
Connecticut, New Jersey and New York. 

 

Operations

 

It is the Company’s goal to offer quality merchandise at everyday low
prices; to maintain a wide assortment of merchandise; to present merchandise in
a distinctive manner designed to maximize customer convenience and reinforce
customer perception of wide selection; and to emphasize dedication to customer
service and satisfaction.

 

Pricing. The Company
believes in maintaining everyday low prices. The Company regularly monitors
price levels at its competitors in order to ensure that its prices are in
accordance with its pricing philosophy. The Company believes that the
application of its everyday low price philosophy is an important factor in
establishing its reputation among customers.

 

Merchandise Assortment. The
Company sells a wide assortment of merchandise principally including domestics
merchandise and home furnishings as well as food, giftware and health and
beauty care items. Domestics merchandise includes categories such as bed linens
and related items, bath items and kitchen textiles. Home furnishings includes
categories such as kitchen and tabletop items, fine tabletop, basic housewares
and general home furnishings. The Company encourages local store personnel to
tailor the merchandise mix as appropriate to respond to changing trends and
conditions. The factors taken into account in selecting the merchandise mix for
a particular store include store size and configuration and local market conditions
such as climate and demographics. The Company, on an ongoing basis, tests new
merchandise 

 

3












 

categories and adjusts the categories of merchandise carried in its
stores and may add new departments or adjust the size of existing
departments as required. Additionally, the Company continues to integrate the
merchandise assortments within its concepts. The Company believes that the
process of adding new departments, integrating the Company’s merchandise within
concepts, and expanding or reducing the size of various departments in response
to changing conditions is an important part of its merchandising strategy.

 

Merchandise Presentation.
BBB has developed a distinctive style of merchandise presentation. Primarily
all of the stores have groups of related product lines presented together in
separate areas of each store, creating the appearance that the store is comprised
of several individual specialty stores for different product lines. BBB
believes that its format of merchandise presentation makes it easy for
customers to locate products, reinforces customer perception of wide selection
and communicates to customers that its stores offer a level of customer service
generally associated with smaller specialty stores.

 

BBB believes that its extensive merchandise selection, rather than
fixturing, should be the focus of customer attention and, accordingly,
typically uses simple modular fixturing throughout its stores. This fixturing
is primarily designed so that it can be easily reconfigured to adapt to changes
in the store’s merchandise mix and presentation. BBB believes that its
merchandise displays create an exciting and attractive shopping environment
that encourages impulse purchases of additional items.

 

Advertising. In
general, the Company relies on “word of mouth advertising” and its reputation
for offering a wide assortment of quality merchandise at everyday low prices,
supplemented by the use of paid advertising. The Company distributes full-color
circulars and other advertising pieces as its primary vehicles of paid
advertising. Also, to support the opening of new stores, the Company primarily
uses “grand opening” circulars and newspaper advertising.

 

Customer Service.
The Company places a strong focus on customer service and seeks to make
shopping at its stores as pleasant and convenient as possible. Most stores are
open seven days (and six evenings) a week in order to enable customers to shop
at times that are convenient for them. In addition, the Company’s websites,
www.bedbathandbeyond.com, www.christmastreeshops.com and www.harmondiscount.com
are available for customers to access 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

 

Suppliers

 

The Company purchases its merchandise from approximately 4,300
suppliers. In fiscal 2005, the Company’s largest supplier accounted for
approximately 4% of the Company’s merchandise purchases and the Company’s 10
largest suppliers accounted for approximately 18% of such purchases. The
Company purchases substantially all of its merchandise in the United States,
the majority from domestic sources and the balance from importers. The Company
purchases a small amount of its merchandise directly from overseas sources. The
Company has no long-term contracts for the purchase of merchandise. The Company
believes that most merchandise, other than brand name goods, is available from
a variety of sources and that most brand name goods can be replaced with
comparable merchandise.

 

Warehousing

 

The Company’s merchandise displays allow a substantial amount of
merchandise to be displayed on the sales floor at all times. Merchandise not
displayed on the sales floor is typically stored in warehouse space within the
store. In addition, the Company maintains twelve supplemental storage locations
as well as two central distribution centers. Merchandise is shipped directly to
stores from vendors through a network of third party carriers, service
providers and the central distribution centers.

 

In addition, the Company maintains two E-Service fulfillment centers.

 

4












 

Employees

 

As of February 25, 2006, the Company employed approximately 33,000
persons in full-time and part-time positions. The Company believes that its
relations with its employees are very good and that the labor turnover rate
among its management employees is lower than that generally experienced within
the industry.

 

Seasonality

 

The Company exhibits less seasonality than many other retail
businesses, although sales levels are generally higher in August, November and
December, and generally lower in February and April.

 

Expansion Program

 

The Company is engaged in an ongoing expansion program involving the
opening of new stores in both new and existing markets and the expansion or
relocation of existing stores. In the fourteen year period from the beginning
of fiscal 1992 to the end of fiscal 2005, the Company has grown from 34 stores
to 809 stores. The Company’s 809 stores operate in 46 states, the District of
Columbia and Puerto Rico, including: 742 BBB stores operating in 46 states, the
District of Columbia and Puerto Rico; 29 CTS stores operating in 8 states; and
38 Harmon stores operating in 3 states. Total square footage grew from
approximately 917,000 square feet at the beginning of fiscal 1992 to
approximately 25.5 million square feet at the end of fiscal 2005. During fiscal
2005, the Company opened 83 BBB stores, three CTS stores and four Harmon stores,
and closed one BBB store and one Harmon store, which resulted in the aggregate
addition of approximately 2.6 million square feet of store space.

 

The Company intends to continue its expansion program and believes that
the continued growth of the Company is dependent, in large part, on the success
of this program. As part of its expansion program, the Company expects to
open new stores and expand existing stores as opportunities arise.

 

In determining where to open new stores, the Company evaluates a number
of factors, including the availability of real estate, demographic information
(such as data relating to income and education levels, age and occupation) and
distribution. The Company has built its management structure with a view toward
its expansion and believes that, as a result, it has the management depth
necessary to support its anticipated expansion program.

 

Inflation

 

The Company does not believe that its operating results have been
materially affected by inflation during the past year. There can be no
assurance, however, that the Company’s operating results will not be affected
by inflation in the future.

 

Competition

 

The Company believes it is the preeminent retailer in its segment of
the home goods industry, which is fragmented and highly competitive. In
addition, the stores compete with many different types of retail stores that
sell many or most of the same products. Such competitors include:  (i) department stores, which often carry
many of the same product lines as the Company’s stores
but do not typically have the same depth or breadth of product selection, (ii) specialty
stores, which often have a depth of product selection but typically carry only
a limited portion of the product lines carried by the Company’s stores, (iii) discount
and mass merchandise stores and (iv) national chains. In addition, the
Company’s stores compete, to a more limited extent, with factory outlet stores
that typically offer limited quantities or limited lines of quality merchandise
at discount prices.

 

The visibility of the Company has encouraged competitors to imitate its
stores’ format and methods. Other retail chains continue to introduce new store
concepts that include many of the product lines carried by the Company’s stores.
There can be no assurance that the operation of store competitors will not have
a material effect on the Company.

 

5












 

Tradenames and Service Marks

 

The Company uses the nationally recognized “Bed Bath & Beyond”
name and logo and the “Beyond any store of its kind” tag line as service marks
in connection with retail services. The Company has registered these marks and
others, including names and logos of CTS and Harmon, with the United States
Patent and Trademark Office. The Company also has registered or has
applications pending with the trademark registries of several foreign countries.
Management believes that its name recognition and service marks are important
elements of the Company’s merchandising strategy.

 

Available Information

 

The Company makes available as soon as reasonably practicable after
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), free of charge,
through its website, www.bedbathandbeyond.com, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports, electronically filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

 

6












 

Executive Officers of the Registrant

 

The following table sets forth the name, age and business experience of
the Executive Officers of the Registrant:

 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Positions
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Warren Eisenberg
  
  
   
  
  
  75
  
  
   
  
  
  Co-Chairman
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Leonard Feinstein
  
  
   
  
  
  69
  
  
   
  
  
  Co-Chairman
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Steven H. Temares
  
  
   
  
  
  47
  
  
   
  
  
  Chief Executive Officer and Director
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Arthur Stark
  
  
   
  
  
  51
  
  
   
  
  
  President and Chief Merchandising Officer
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Matthew Fiorilli
  
  
   
  
  
  49
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior Vice President – Stores
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Eugene A. Castagna
  
  
   
  
  
  40
  
  
   
  
  
  Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
  
 


 

Mr. Eisenberg is
a co-founder of the Company and has been serving as Co-Chairman since April 2003.
He was Co-Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer from 1999-2003. Mr. Eisenberg
was Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer from 1992-1999. Mr. Eisenberg
served as President and Co-Chief Executive Officer from the Company’s founding
in 1971 until 1992.

 

Mr. Feinstein is
a co-founder of the Company and has been serving as Co-Chairman since April 2003.
He was Co-Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer from 1999-2003. Mr. Feinstein
was President and Co-Chief Executive Officer from 1992-1999. Mr. Feinstein
served as Co-Chief Executive Officer, Treasurer and Secretary from the Company’s
founding in 1971 until 1992.

 

Mr. Temares has
been a Director of the Company since 1999 and Chief Executive Officer since
2003. Mr. Temares was President and Chief Executive Officer from 2003-January 2006.
Mr. Temares was President and Chief Operating Officer from 1999-2003 and
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from 1997-1999. Prior to
1997, he was Director of Real Estate and General Counsel. Mr. Temares
joined the Company in 1992.

 

Mr. Stark has
been President of the Company since January 2006 and Chief Merchandising
Officer since 1999. Mr. Stark was Senior Vice President from 1999-2006 and
Vice President – Merchandising from 1998-1999. Mr. Stark was Director of
Store Operations – Western Region from 1997-1998. Mr. Stark joined the
Company in 1977.

 

Mr. Fiorilli
has been Senior Vice President - Stores since January 1999. Mr. Fiorilli
was Vice President - Stores from 1998 until 1999 and Director of Store
Operations - Eastern Region from 1994 until 1998. Mr. Fiorill joined the
Company in 1973.

 

Mr. Castagna, a
certified public accountant, has been Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since
January 2006. Mr. Castagna served as Assistant Treasurer from 2002 to
2006 and as Vice President – Finance from 2001 to 2006. Prior to 2001, Mr. Castagna
was Vice President – Controller. Mr. Castagna joined the Company in 1994.

 

The Company’s executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors
for one-year terms and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. No
family relationships exist between any of the executive officers or directors
of the Company.

 

7



 










 

ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS

 

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This Form 10-K contains forward looking
statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s actual results and future financial
condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward
looking statements as a result of many factors that may be outside the
Company’s control. Such factors include the following:

 

Consumer Preferences and Demographic Factors

 

The
Company’s success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely
manner to changing merchandise trends, customer demands and demographics. The
Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in
customer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions
could lead to, among other things, excess inventories or a shortage of products
and could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition
and results of operations.

 

General Economic Conditions

 

General
economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control impact the Company’s
forecasts and actual performance. These factors include interest rates,
recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt
levels, fuel and energy costs, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, the
impact of natural disasters and terrorist activities, and other matters that
influence consumer spending. Changes in the economic climate could adversely
affect the Company’s performance.

 

Unusual Weather Patterns

 

The
Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by unusual weather
patterns. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, hurricanes,
floods, tornados or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures could
adversely affect the Company’s performance.

 

Competition and Pricing Pressures

 

The
retail business is highly competitive. The Company competes for customers,
associates, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of the
business with many other local, regional and national retailers. Those
competitors range from specialty retail stores to department stores and
discounters. Unanticipated changes in the pricing and other practices of those
competitors may adversely affect the Company’s performance.

 

Cost of Labor, Merchandise and Other Expenses

 

The
Company’s success depends, in part, on our ability to manage operating costs
and to look for opportunities to reduce costs. The Company’s ability to meet
its labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as
unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and
changing demographics. The Company’s ability to find qualified vendors and
obtain access to products in a timely and efficient manner can be adversely
affected by political instability, the financial instability of suppliers,
suppliers’ noncompliance with applicable laws, transportation costs and other
factors beyond the Company’s control.

 

Expansion Program

 

The
Company’s growth depends, in part, on our ability to open new stores and
operate profitably. Our ability to open additional stores successfully will
depend on a number of factors, including our identification and availability of
suitable store locations; our success in negotiating leases on acceptable
terms; our hiring and training of skilled store operating personnel, especially
management; and our timely development of new stores, including the 

 

8












 

availability
of construction materials and labor and the absence of significant construction
and other delays in store openings based on weather or other events. In
addition, as our business continues to grow, we are subject to more complex
state and federal regulations and may be the target of private actions alleging
violations of such regulations. This increases the cost of doing business and
the risk that our business practices could result in liabilities that may adversely
affect the Company’s performance, despite the exercise of reasonable care.

 

ITEM 1B