Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Described below
are certain risks that our management believes are applicable to our business
and the industry in which we operate. There may be additional risks that are
not presently material or known. There are also risks within the economy and
the capital markets, both domestically 


 13 



 


and
internationally, that affect business generally, and our company and industry
as well, such as inflation; higher interest rates; higher fuel and other energy
costs; higher transportation costs; higher costs of labor, insurance and
healthcare; foreign exchange rate fluctuations; and higher levels of
unemployment, which have not been described. You should carefully consider each
of the following risks and all other information set forth in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

If any of the events described below occur, our business, financial
condition, results of operations, liquidity or access to the capital markets
could be materially adversely affected. The following risks could cause our
actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and from
results predicted by forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf
related to conditions or events that we anticipate may occur in the future. All
forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are qualified by the
risks described below.

If we do not anticipate
and respond to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our operating
results could suffer.

Our business depends, in large part, on our ability to introduce
successfully new products, services and technologies to consumers, the
frequency of such introductions, the level of consumer acceptance, and the
related impact on the demand for existing products, services and technologies.
Failure to predict accurately constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences,
spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions, or to address effectively
consumer concerns, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results
of operations and standing with our customers.

Our growth is dependent
on the success of our strategies.

Our growth is dependent on our ability to identify, develop and execute
strategies. While we believe customer centricity and the pursuit of
international growth opportunities will enable us to grow our business,
misjudgments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Our results of
operations could deteriorate if we fail to attract, develop and retain
qualified employees.

Our performance is dependent on attracting and retaining a large and
growing number of employees. We believe our competitive advantage is providing
unique end-to-end solutions for each individual customer, which requires us to
have highly trained and engaged employees. Our success depends in part upon our
ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified
employees, including store, service and administrative personnel. The turnover
rate in the retail industry is high, and qualified individuals of the requisite
caliber and number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in
some areas. Competition for such qualified individuals could require us to pay
higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. Our inability to
recruit a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may delay
planned openings of new stores or affect the speed to enter new growth areas
such as Best Buy For Business and services. Delayed store openings, significant
increases in employee turnover rates or significant increases in labor costs
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

We
face strong competition from traditional store-based retailers, Internet businesses
and other forms of retail commerce, which
could materially affect our revenue and profitability.

The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for customers,
employees, locations, products and other important aspects of our business with
many other local, regional, national and international retailers. Pressure from
our competitors, some of which have a greater market presence than we do, could
require us to reduce our prices or increase our costs of doing business. As a
result of this competition, we may experience lower revenue and/or higher
operating costs, which could materially adversely affect our results of
operations.


 14 



 


Our growth strategy
includes expanding our business, both in existing markets and by opening stores
in new markets.

Our future
growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to build or lease new stores. We
compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our
stores. Local land use, local zoning issues, environmental regulations and
other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may
impact our ability to find suitable locations, and also influence the cost of
constructing and leasing our stores. We also may have difficulty negotiating
leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms. Failure to
manage these and other similar factors effectively will affect our ability to build or lease new
stores, which may have a material adverse effect on our future profitability.

We seek to
expand our business in existing markets in order to attain a greater overall
market share. Because our stores typically draw customers from their local
areas, a new store may draw customers away from our nearby existing stores and
may cause comparable store sales performance and customer traffic at those
existing stores to decline.

We also intend to open stores in new markets. The risks associated with
entering a new market include difficulties in attracting customers due to a
lack of customer familiarity with our brand, our lack of familiarity with local
customer preferences and seasonal differences in the market. In addition, entry
into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing
competitors with a large, established market presence. And while we have a
strong track record of profitable new store growth, we cannot ensure that our
new stores will be profitably deployed; as a result, our future profitability
may be materially adversely affected.

Risks associated with
the vendors from whom our products are sourced could materially adversely
affect our revenue and gross profit.

The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and
international vendors. Global sourcing is becoming an increasingly important
part of our business and positively affects our financial performance. Our 20 largest suppliers account for
approximately three-fifths of the merchandise we purchase. If any of our
key vendors fails to supply us with products, we may not be able to meet the
demands of our customers and revenue could decline. We require all of our
vendors to comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws,
and otherwise be certified as meeting our required vendor standards of conduct.
Our ability to find qualified vendors who meet our standards and supply products
in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with
respect to goods sourced from outside the United States. Political or financial
instability, merchandise quality issues, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency
exchange rates, transportation capacity and costs, inflation, outbreak of
pandemics and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.
These and other issues affecting our vendors could materially adversely affect
our revenue and gross profit.

We are subject to
certain regulatory and legal developments which could have a material adverse
impact on our business.

Our regulatory and legal environment exposes
us to complex compliance and litigation risks that could materially affect our
operations and financial results. In our major global markets, we are subject
to increasing regulations, which increase our cost of doing business. The most
significant compliance and litigation risks we face are:

·        The difficulty in
complying with sometimes conflicting regulations in local, national or
international jurisdictions and new or changing regulations that affect how we
operate;

·        The impact of changes in
tax laws (or interpretations thereof);

·        The impact of litigation
trends, including class actions involving consumers and shareholders, and labor
and employment matters; and

·        The
significant uncertainties of operating globally, including the costs and
difficulties of managing international operations, foreign currencies, complex
laws, contractual obligations and intellectual property rights.


 15 



 


We rely heavily on our
management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other
functions. If our systems fail to perform these functions adequately or if we
experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of
operations could be materially adversely affected.

The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management
information systems. We rely heavily on our management information systems to
manage our order entry, order fulfillment, pricing, point-of-sale and inventory
replenishment processes. The failure of our management information systems to
perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in
decreased revenue, increased overhead costs and excess or out-of-stock
inventory levels, causing our business and results of operations to suffer
materially.

A disruption in our
relationship with Accenture, who manages our information technology and human
resources operations, could materially adversely affect our business and
results of operations.

We have engaged Accenture Ltd to manage our information technology and
human resources operations. We rely heavily on our management information
systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions. We also
rely heavily on human resources support to attract, develop and retain a
sufficient number of qualified employees. Any disruption in our relationship
with Accenture could result in decreased revenue and increased overhead costs,
causing our business and results of operations to suffer materially.

Failure to protect the
integrity and security of our customers’ information could expose us to
litigation and materially damage our standing with our customers.

The increasing costs associated with information security — such
as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer
protection laws and costs resulting from consumer fraud — could cause our
business and results of operations to suffer materially. Additionally, the
success of our online operations depends upon the secure transmission of
confidential information over public networks, including the use of cashless
payments. While we are taking significant efforts to protect customer and
confidential information, there can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities,
new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will prevent
the compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and personal
data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a
material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and
financial condition and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such
security breaches.

Failure in our pursuit
or execution of new business ventures, strategic alliances and acquisitions
could have a material adverse impact on our business.

Our growth strategy includes expansion via new business ventures,
strategic alliances and acquisitions. While we employ several different
valuation methodologies to assess a potential growth opportunity, we can give
no assurance that new business ventures and strategic alliances will positively
affect our financial performance. Acquisitions may result in difficulties in
assimilating acquired companies, and may result in the diversion of our capital
and our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. We
may not be able to integrate companies that we acquire successfully, including
their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general
operating procedures. If we fail to integrate acquired companies successfully,
our business could suffer materially. We may also encounter challenges in
achieving appropriate internal control over financial reporting in connection
with the integration of an acquired company. In addition, the integration of
any acquired company, and its financial results, into ours may have a material
adverse effect on our operating results.








 


 16 



 


We are highly dependent
on the cash flows and net earnings we generate during our fourth fiscal quarter,
which includes the majority of the holiday selling season.

Approximately
one-third of our revenue and more than one-half of our net earnings are
generated in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the majority of the
holiday selling season. Unexpected events or developments such as natural
disasters, man-made disasters and adverse economic conditions in our fourth quarter
could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings.

The foregoing should not be construed as an exhaustive list of all
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf.

Item 1B