.  Risk Factors.Described below are certain risks that our management believes are applicable to our business and the industry in which we operate. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.If any of the events described below occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or access to sources of financing could be materially adversely affected. The following risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and from results predicted by forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf related to conditions or events that we anticipate may occur in the future. The following risks should not be construed as an exhaustive list of all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. All forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are qualified by the risks described below. If we do not anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our operating results could materially suffer. Our business depends, in large part, on our ability to successfully introduce new products, services and technologies to consumers, the frequency of such introductions, the level of consumer acceptance, and the related impact on the demand for existing products, services and technologies. Consumers continue to have a wide variety of choices in terms of how and where they purchase these products, services and technologies. Consumers also continue to benefit from the convergence of technology products, where one product combines and replaces several others. Failure to accurately predict and adapt to constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions, or to effectively address consumer concerns, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and reputation with our customers. Economic conditions in the U.S. and key international markets or other conditions leading to a decline in consumer discretionary spending may materially adversely impact our operating results. We sell certain products and services that consumers may view as discretionary items rather than necessities. As a result, our results of operations tend to be more sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Other factors, including consumer confidence, employment levels, interest rates, tax rates, consumer debt levels, consumers' ability to obtain credit, and fuel and energy costs could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. In the past three fiscal years, many of these factors adversely affected consumer spending and, consequently, our business and results of operations. A slowdown in the U.S. or global economy, continued economic and financial instability in Europe, or an uncertain economic outlook, could materially adversely affect consumer spending habits and our operating results in the future.The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. The threat or outbreak of domestic or international terrorism, civil unrest or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending. Similarly, an overly anti-business climate or sentiment could potentially lead consumers to decrease or shift their spending habits. Any of these events and factors could cause a decrease in revenue or an increase in inventory markdowns or certain operating expenses, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.Other conditions or factors that may impact our results of operations include disruptions to the availability of content such as sporting events or other televised content. Such disruptions may influence the demand for hardware that our customers purchase to access such content, as well as the commissions we receive from subscription services. Accordingly, such disruptions could cause a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. 13Table of ContentsOur results of operations could materially deteriorate if we fail to attract, develop and retain qualified employees. Our performance is dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees who are able to develop the skills necessary to achieve our business strategies. We believe our competitive advantage is providing unique end-to-end solutions for each individual customer, which requires us to have highly trained and engaged employees. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including store, service and administrative personnel. The turnover rate in the retail industry is high, and qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and quantity needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas. Our inability to recruit a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may delay planned openings of new stores or affect the speed with which we expand our initiatives, our exclusive brands and our international operations. Delayed store openings, significant increases in employee turnover rates or significant increases in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face strong competition from traditional store-based retailers, internet-based businesses, our vendors and other forms of retail commerce, which could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for customers, employees, locations, products and other important aspects of our business with many other local, regional, national and international retailers, as well as our vendors who offer their products and services direct to the consumer. We continue to face pressure from our competitors, some of which have greater market presence and financial resources than we do. In addition, certain internet-based businesses do not collect and remit state and local sales taxes in all of the states in which we are required to collect and remit such taxes. These factors could require us to reduce our prices or increase our costs of doing business. In addition, because our business strategy includes staffing and support models for both products and services, our cost structure is generally higher than those offering products only. Some of our vendors also continue to interact directly with customers by embedding their services into the products we sell. As a result of this competition and the potential for direct product distribution, we may experience lower revenue and/or higher operating costs, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our results of operations could materially deteriorate if we fail to maintain positive brand perception and recognition. We operate a global portfolio of brands with a commitment to customer service and innovation. We believe that recognition and the reputation of our brands are key to our success. The advent of social media, which uses web-based technologies for interactive dialogue, represents an increasingly popular outlet for various types of feedback, opinions and criticism surrounding the perception and reputation of our business and our brands. Damage to the perception or reputation of our brands could result in declines in customer loyalty, lower employee morale and productivity concerns, and vendor relationship issues, and could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth is dependent on the success of our strategies. Our growth is dependent on our ability to identify, develop and execute our strategies. Our failure to properly deploy and utilize capital and other resources may adversely affect our initiatives designed to assist our customers in connecting to a digital lifestyle. We are focusing on areas where we see the greatest opportunities for growth and profit: growth in connections in mobile phones, tablets and other computing devices; enhanced digital and e-commerce strategies, including competitive online pricing, broader use of free shipping, expanded online assortment and the further development of the Best Buy Marketplace; growth in our services business; and expansion of our established business in China. Likewise, we recently announced a series of actions intended to transform our business, focusing on improving the customer experience and our financial performance, including the roll-out of our Connected Store format in select markets. Misjudgments or flaws in our execution of these initiatives and strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Refer to Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further information surrounding our strategies.Our ability to generate profitable growth is dependent upon the effective management of our property portfolio.Our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to build, buy or lease new stores. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. Local land use, local zoning issues, environmental regulations and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may impact our ability to find suitable locations, and also influence the cost of building, buying and leasing our stores. We also may have difficulty negotiating real estate purchase agreements and leases on acceptable terms. Failure to manage effectively these and other similar factors will affect our ability to build, buy and lease new stores, which may have a material adverse effect on our future profitability.14Table of ContentsWe may seek to expand or reposition our business in existing markets in order to attain a greater overall market share. Because our stores typically draw customers from their local areas, a new store may draw customers away from our nearby existing stores and may cause customer traffic and comparable store sales performance to decline at those existing stores.We also open stores in new markets from time to time. The risks associated with entering a new market include difficulties in attracting customers where there is a lack of customer familiarity with our brands, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences, seasonal differences in the market and our ability to obtain the necessary governmental approvals. In addition, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. Our current growth strategy includes refocusing our investments on areas that we believe have the potential to meet our rate of return expectations. We expect to continue the expansion of our small-format Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores in the U.S. and our Five Star branded stores in China. We cannot ensure that our new stores, regardless of brand, size, format or market, will be profitably deployed. As a result, our future profitability may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, in order to optimize the returns we realize from our property portfolio, we may vacate leased properties or modify the terms of such leases prior to the termination of the lease. If we are unable to effectively negotiate such changes with the landlords and/or find suitable subtenants, we may incur excessive lease costs associated with these actions. The failure to control our costs could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. Certain elements of our cost structure are largely fixed in nature. Consumer spending remains uncertain, which makes it more challenging for us to maintain or increase our operating income. As a result, we must continue to control our expense structure. Failure to manage our labor and benefit rates, advertising and marketing expenses, operating leases, other store expenses or indirect spending could delay or prevent us from achieving profitability goals or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our liquidity may be materially adversely affected by constraints in the capital markets. We must have sufficient sources of liquidity to fund our working capital requirements, service our outstanding indebtedness and finance investment opportunities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations or we may not be able to pursue promising business opportunities. The principal sources of our liquidity are funds generated from operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents, and borrowings under credit facilities and other debt financings. If our sources of liquidity do not satisfy our requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. The future availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and market conditions, the availability of credit and our credit ratings, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of us or the retail industry generally. If required, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, on favorable terms, or at all. Changes in our credit ratings may limit our access to capital markets and materially increase our borrowing costs.In fiscal 2012, Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services maintained their corporate and debt ratings at investment grade level with a stable outlook. Fitch Ratings Ltd. maintained its rating of our corporate and debt securities at investment grade level but lowered it from BBB+ to BBB-, while raising its outlook to stable. Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2012, Fitch Ratings Ltd. reaffirmed its corporate and debt rating, but revised its outlook to negative.Future downgrades to our long-term credit ratings and outlook could negatively impact our access to the capital markets and the perception of us by lenders and other third parties. Our credit ratings are based upon information furnished by us or obtained by a rating agency from its own sources and are subject to revision, suspension or withdrawal by one or more rating agencies at any time. Rating agencies may review the ratings assigned to us due to developments that are beyond our control, including as a result of new standards requiring the agencies to re-assess rating practices and methodologies.Any downgrade to our debt securities may result in higher interest costs for certain of our credit facilities and other debt financings, and could result in higher interest costs on future financings. Further, in the event of such a downgrade, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if necessary, on favorable terms, or at all. 15Table of ContentsFailure in our pursuit or execution of new business ventures, strategic alliances and acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our business.Our growth strategy also includes expansion via new business ventures, strategic alliances and acquisitions. Assessing a potential growth opportunity involves extensive due diligence. However, the amount of information we can obtain about a potential growth opportunity may be limited, and we can give no assurance that new business ventures, strategic alliances and acquisitions will positively affect our financial performance or will perform as planned. The success of these growth opportunities is also largely dependent on the current and future participation, working relationship and strategic vision of the business venture or strategic alliance partners. Integrating new businesses, stores and concepts can be a difficult task. Cultural differences in some markets into which we may expand or into which we may introduce new retail concepts may result in customers in those markets being less receptive than originally anticipated. These types of transactions may divert our capital and our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities. Further, implementing new strategic alliances or business ventures may also impair our relationships with our vendors or strategic partners. We may not be able to successfully assimilate or integrate companies that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. We may also encounter challenges in achieving appropriate internal control over financial reporting in connection with the integration of an acquired company. If we fail to assimilate or integrate acquired companies successfully, our business, reputation and operating results could suffer materially. Likewise, our failure to integrate and manage acquired companies successfully may lead to impairment of the associated goodwill and intangible asset balances. Failure to protect the integrity, security and use of our customers' information and media could expose us to litigation and materially damage our standing with our customers. The use of individually identifiable data by our business, our business associates and third parties is regulated at the state, federal and international levels. Increasing costs associated with information security – such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws and costs resulting from consumer fraud – could cause our business and results of operations to suffer materially. Additionally, the success of our online operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including the use of cashless payments. While we have taken significant steps to protect customer and confidential information, the intentional or negligent actions of employees, business associates or third parties may undermine our security measures. As a result, unauthorized parties may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate confidential data. There can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will prevent the compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and personal data. Furthermore, because the methods used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and may not be immediately detected, we may be unable to anticipate these methods or promptly implement preventative measures. If any such compromise of our security or the security of information residing with our business associates or third parties were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition. Any compromise of our data security may materially increase the costs we incur to protect against such breaches and could subject us to additional legal risk. Risks associated with the vendors from whom our products are sourced could materially adversely affect our revenue and gross profit. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. In fiscal 2012, our 20 largest suppliers accounted for just over 60% of the merchandise we purchased. We generally do not have long-term written contracts with our major suppliers that would require them to continue supplying us with merchandise. If any of our key vendors fails to supply us with products or continue to develop new technologies that create consumer demand, we may not be able to meet the demands of our customers and our revenue could materially decline. Likewise, the formation and/or strengthening of business partnerships between our vendors and our competitors could directly alter the composition of products and level of customer purchasing within our stores and online, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.We require all of our vendors to comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required vendor standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the U.S. Political or financial instability, merchandise quality issues, product safety concerns, trade restrictions, work stoppages, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, transportation capacity and costs, inflation, civil unrest, natural disasters, outbreaks of pandemics and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other issues affecting our vendors could materially adversely affect our revenue and gross profit. 16Table of ContentsOur exclusive brands products are subject to several additional product, supply chain and legal risks, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Sales of our exclusive brands, which primarily include Insignia, Dynex, Init, Geek Squad and Rocketfish branded products, represent an important component of our revenue. Most of these products are manufactured under contract by vendors based in southeastern Asia. This arrangement exposes us to the following additional potential risks, which could materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results:•We have greater exposure and responsibility to the consumer for warranty replacements and repairs as a result of product defects, as we generally have less recourse to contracted manufacturers for such warranty liabilities;•We may be subject to regulatory compliance and/or product liability claims relating to personal injury, death or property damage caused by such products, some of which may require us to take significant actions such as product recalls;•We may experience disruptions in the manufacturing or the logistics within the manufacturing environment in southeastern Asia caused by inconsistent and unanticipated order patterns, our inability to develop long-term relationships with key factories or unforeseen natural disasters;•We are subject to developing and often-changing labor and environmental laws for the manufacture of products in foreign countries, and we may be unable to conform to new rules or interpretations in a timely manner;•We may be subject to claims by technology owners if we inadvertently infringe upon their patents or other intellectual property rights, or if we fail to pay royalties owed on our products; and•We may be unable to obtain or adequately protect our patents and other intellectual property rights on our products, the new features of our products and/or our processes. Maintaining consistent product quality, availability and competitive pricing of our exclusive brands products for our customers is critical to building and maintaining customer and brand loyalty. Changes in consumer acceptance or confidence relating to our exclusive brands products could materially reduce our overall revenues and negatively affect operating results.We are subject to certain statutory, regulatory and legal developments which could have a material adverse impact on our business.Our statutory, regulatory and legal environment exposes us to complex compliance and litigation risks that could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. The most significant compliance and litigation risks we face are:•The difficulty of complying with sometimes conflicting statutes and regulations in local, national or international jurisdictions;•The impact of new or changing statutes and regulations including, but not limited to, financial reform, environmental requirements, National Labor Relations Board rule changes, health care reform, corporate governance matters and/or other as yet unknown legislation, that could affect how we operate and execute our strategies as well as alter our expense structure;•The impact of changes in tax laws (or interpretations thereof by courts and taxing authorities) and accounting standards; and•The impact of litigation trends, including class action lawsuits involving consumers and shareholders, and labor and employment matters.Defending against lawsuits and other proceedings may involve significant expense and divert management's attention and resources from other matters. Furthermore, pending regulatory rules regarding requirements to disclose efforts to identify the origin of “conflict minerals” in certain portions of our supply chain could increase the cost of doing business, adversely affecting our results of operations.Changes to the National Labor Relations Act or other labor-related statutes or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. The National Labor Relations Board continually considers changes to labor regulations, many of which could significantly impact the nature of labor relations in the U.S. and how union elections and contract negotiations are conducted. In 2011, the definition of a bargaining unit changed, making it possible for smaller groups of employees to organize labor unions. Furthermore, new representation election rules – which became effective on April 30, 2012 – have streamlined the election 17Table of Contentsprocess, shortening the time between the filing of a petition and an election being held. Additional changes are anticipated in 2012. As of March 3, 2012, none of our U.S. operations had employees represented by labor unions or working under collective bargaining agreements. Changes in labor-related statutes or regulations could increase the percentage of elections won by unions, and employers of newly unionized employees would have a duty to bargain in good faith over matters such as wages, benefits and labor scheduling, which could increase our costs of doing business and materially adversely affect our results of operations. Additional legislation or rulemaking relating to environmental matters, including but not limited to, energy emissions, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Environmental legislation or rulemaking efforts could impose unexpected costs or impact us more directly than other companies due to our operations as a global consumer electronics retailer with over 4,000 stores and 91 distribution centers worldwide.Specifically, environmental legislation or international agreements affecting energy, carbon emissions, water or product materials are continually being explored by governing bodies. Increasing energy and fuel costs, supply chain disruptions and other potential risks to our business, as well as any significant rulemaking or passage of any such legislation, could materially increase the cost to transport our goods and materially adversely affect our results of operations. Regulatory developments in the U.S. could impact the promotional financing offers available to our credit card customers and have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. We offer promotional financing in the U.S. through credit cards issued by third party banks that manage and directly extend credit to our customers. The cardholders can receive low- or no-interest promotional financing on qualifying purchases. Promotional financing credit card sales accounted for 20%, 18% and 17% of our Domestic segment's revenue in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.If future legislative or regulatory restrictions or prohibitions arise that significantly alter the operational, economic or contractual aspects of these programs and we or the issuing banks are unable to adjust in a timely manner, our revenue and profitability may be materially adversely affected. Changes to our credit card agreements could adversely impact our ability to facilitate the provision of consumer credit to our customers and could materially adversely impact our results of operations.We have agreements with third party banks for the issuance of promotional financing and customer loyalty credit cards. Under the agreements, the banks manage and directly extend credit to our customers. The banks are the sole owner of the accounts receivable generated under the credit card programs and absorb losses associated with non-payment by the cardholders and fraudulent usage of the accounts. We earn revenue from fees the banks pay to us based on the number of credit card accounts activated and card usage, as well as revenue generated from various enhancement services products such as debt cancellation, credit monitoring and identity protection services . The banks also reimburse us for certain costs associated with our credit card programs. Financing fees are paid by us to the banks and are variable based on certain factors such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), charge volume and/or the types of promotional financing offers.As a result of the continuing changes in the economic and regulatory environment for banks, these institutions continue to re-evaluate their strategies, practices and terms, including, but not limited to, the levels at which consumer credit is granted and the strategic focus on various business segments, such as the retail partner card business. If any of our credit card programs ended prematurely or the terms and provisions, or interpretations thereof, were substantially modified, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. Our International activities subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We have a presence in various foreign countries, including Bermuda, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, the Republic of Mauritius, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turks and Caicos, and the U.K. During fiscal 2012, our International segment's operations generated 26% of our revenue. Our future operating results in these countries and in other countries or regions throughout the world where we may operate in the future could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints and foreign currency regulations. 18Table of ContentsSpecifically, significant concerns exist surrounding the ability of certain governments of member states of the European Union to meet their financial obligations and the indirect impacts this could have on the macroeconomic environment in Europe.In addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future earnings and cash flows from our International segment's operations, and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they were to occur again, could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may materially adversely impact our International segment's operations include foreign trade, monetary, tax and fiscal policies both of the U.S. and of other countries; laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations; and maintaining facilities in countries which have historically been less stable than the U.S.Additional risks inherent in our International segment's operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S. The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. We rely heavily on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions. If our systems fail to perform these functions adequately or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely heavily on our management information systems to manage our order entry, order fulfillment, pricing, point-of-sale and inventory replenishment processes. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate, or to meet the continuously evolving needs of our business, could disrupt our business and could result in decreased revenue, increased overhead costs and excess or out-of-stock inventory levels, causing our business and results of operations to suffer materially. A disruption in relationships with key third-party business partners could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have engaged Accenture LLP (“Accenture”), a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company, to manage significant portions of our information technology and human resources operations. We rely heavily on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions. We also rely heavily on human resources support to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. Furthermore, we have engaged other key third-party business partners to manage various functions of our business, including but not limited to, customer loyalty programs, promotional financing and customer loyalty credit cards, customer warranty and insurance programs, and other outsourced functions. Any material disruption in our relationship with Accenture or other key third-party business partners could result in decreased revenue and increased overhead costs, causing our business and results of operations to suffer materially. We are highly dependent on the cash flows and net earnings we generate during our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday selling season. Approximately one-third of our revenue and more than one-half of our net earnings are historically generated in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday shopping season in the U.S., Europe and Canada. Although our results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 included certain impacts arising from the buy-out of a profit share agreement and from restructuring activities, we remain highly dependent on cash flows and net earnings generated during our fourth fiscal quarter. Unexpected events or developments such as natural or man-made disasters, product sourcing issues or adverse economic conditions in our fourth fiscal quarter could have a material adverse effect on our annual results of operations.Item 1B