Item 1A. Risk Factors  An investor should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as other information
contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission in evaluating our business. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect
our business. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity, and/or results of operations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:18px;margin-bottom:0px">Defects or failures associated with our products could lead to recalls or safety alerts, negative publicity regarding the company and litigation, including product
liability claims, that could adversely affect our business and reputation and result in loss of customers.  The design, manufacture
and marketing of medical devices of the types we produce entail inherent risks. Our products are often used in clinically demanding circumstances with seriously ill patients, and many of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are implanted in
the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. There are a number of factors that could result in an unsafe condition, injury or death of a patient with respect to products that we manufacture or sell, including component failures,
manufacturing flaws, unanticipated or improper uses of our products, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">These problems could lead to a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products and could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal of these products from the body and claims against us
for costs associated with the removal. Any recall, whether voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries, could result in significant costs and significant negative publicity. Negative publicity, whether
accurate or inaccurate, could reduce market acceptance of our products, harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, result in the loss of customers, lead to product withdrawals and/or harm our 
  
 I-7 




Table of Contents

 
ability to market our products in the future. The foregoing problems could also result in product liability claims being brought by individuals or by groups
seeking to represent a class, and while we believe that many settlements and judgments may be covered in whole or in part under our product liability insurance policies, there is no guarantee that these amounts will be adequate to cover damages
and/or costs or that insurers won’t contest coverage. See “Legal Proceedings” below for a description of lawsuits filed or asserted against the company including with respect to its Composix<FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="1">® Kugel® products. Moreover, in some circumstances adverse events arising from or associated with the design, manufacture or marketing of our products could
result in the FDA suspending or delaying its review of our applications for new product approvals. Any of the foregoing problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations.
 We face intense competition from other companies, and our inability to continue to effectively develop, acquire and/or market new products and
technologies could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  The medical device business is intensely
competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change. Our customers consider many factors when choosing among products, including product features and reliability, clinical outcomes, product availability, price and product services
provided by the manufacturer. Product introductions, or enhancements by competitors that provide better features and/or lower pricing, may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">As a result, we engage in product development and improvement programs to maintain and improve our competitive position. We may not, however, be
successful in enhancing existing products or developing new products or technologies that will achieve regulatory approval or receive market acceptance. As part of our competitive strategy, we also pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses,
technologies and products to facilitate our future business strategies. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, consummate transactions or obtain agreements with favorable terms. Further, once a business is acquired, any
inability to successfully integrate the business, failure to retain and develop its workforce or failure to establish and maintain appropriate controls could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. If we
fail to develop new products, enhance existing products or identify and acquire complementary businesses, technologies and products, or otherwise compete effectively, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:18px;margin-bottom:0px">Domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors and cost containment measures
could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices that our customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures using our devices.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:6px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians which typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g.,
Medicare, Medicaid and comparable foreign programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services
from third-party payors is critical to the success of medical device companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies by country and can significantly impact the acceptance
of new technology. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant overseas markets such as Germany, Japan, France and other countries may limit, reduce or eliminate reimbursement for our products and adversely affect
both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Even when we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors.
 Major third-party payors for hospital services in the United States and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs through, among
other things, the introduction of cost containment incentives and closer scrutiny 
  
 I-8 




Table of Contents

 
of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers. For example, in an effort to decrease costs, certain hospitals and other customers
resterilize our products intended for a single use or purchase reprocessed products from third-party reprocessors in lieu of purchasing new products from us.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Further legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international reimbursement systems in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or denies coverage for
these procedures, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices which our customers are willing to
pay for them. These outcomes, along with cost containment measures, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">An interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw materials may adversely affect our business.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:6px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">We manufacture our products at facilities located throughout the world, some of which are in areas that are prone to hurricanes and other natural
disasters. In some cases, certain of our key products are manufactured at one facility. If an event occurred that resulted in damage to one or more of our facilities, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at
all. In addition, we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing our products from numerous suppliers in various countries. For reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability or cost effectiveness, certain
components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. Due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish
additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. As a result, a reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on
our business and results of operations.  We are subject to a comprehensive system of federal, state and international laws and regulations, and we
could be the subject of an enforcement action or face lawsuits and monetary or equitable judgments.  Our operations are affected by
various state, federal and international healthcare, environmental, antitrust, anti-corruption and employment laws, including for example various FDA and international regulations and the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (“FCPA”). We are subject to periodic inspections to determine compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation requirements, current medical device adverse event reporting regulations and foreign rules and
regulations. Product approvals by the FDA and other foreign regulators can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. The failure to comply with regulatory
standards or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in FDA Form-483 notices and/or warning letters, fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, detainment, seizures or recalls of products
(with the attendant expenses), the banning of a particular device, an order to replace or refund the cost of any device previously manufactured or distributed, operating restrictions and civil or criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a
result of negative publicity and product liability claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">In addition, the healthcare industry is under scrutiny from state governments and the federal government with respect to industry practices in the area of sales and marketing. If our marketing or sales activities fail
to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, or other applicable laws, we may be subject to warnings from the FDA or enforcement actions from the FDA or other enforcement bodies. In the recent past, medical device manufacturers have been
the subject of investigations from state and federal prosecutors related to their relationships with doctors, among other activities or practices. See “Legal Proceedings” below for a description of a subpoena received by the company’s
Urological Division relating to the Division’s brachytherapy business. If an enforcement action involving the company were to occur, it could result in penalties, fines, the exclusion of our products from reimbursement under federally-funded
programs and/or prohibitions on our ability to sell our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   
 I-9 




Table of Contents

 We operate in many parts of the world and our policies require compliance with the FCPA. Failure to
comply with the FCPA could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">In addition, lawsuits by employees, customers, licensors, licensees, suppliers, business partners, distributors, shareholders or competitors with respect to how we conduct our business could be very costly and could
substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to resolve these disputes on terms favorable to us. The occurrence of an adverse monetary or
equitable judgment or a large expenditure in connection with a settlement of any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. For more information, see “Legal
Proceedings.”  We are substantially dependent on patent and proprietary rights and could incur significant costs defending and protecting those
rights or face restrictions or additional costs in connection with the sale of our products.  We operate in an industry
characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards (treble damages under certain circumstances) and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in
significant damage awards, settlement payments or royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. At any given time, we are generally involved as either a plaintiff or a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes
of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation incident to our business, we believe that an adverse outcome associated with any pending litigation could generally have a
material adverse effect on our business and results of operations in a future period.  We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets
and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property and will continue to do so. Although these patents, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements may not successfully protect our intellectual property, we intend to defend
against threats to our intellectual property. Our pending patent applications may not result in patents issuing to us, and patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and these
patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide us with a competitive advantage. In addition, we operate in foreign markets where protection or enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weaker than in the United States, and inadequate
patent protection in those markets may adversely affect our competitive position. Third parties could also obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and we cannot assure you that the required licenses would be
available on reasonable terms or at all. For more information, see “Legal Proceedings.”  Our international sales and operations are subject
to risks and uncertainties that vary by country and which could have a material impact on our business or results of operations.  <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 31 percent of our net sales in 2007. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. In addition, many of our
manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside of the United States. As a result, our sales and profitability from our international operations and our ability to implement our overall business strategy are subject to risks and
uncertainties that can vary by country including those related to political and economic conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in tax laws, regulatory and reimbursement programs and policies, and the protection of
intellectual property rights.  
Item 1B