Item 1A. “Risk Factors” included in this Form 10-K.   
 I-3 




Table of Contents

 Competition  <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">The company competes in the therapeutic and diagnostic medical device markets around the world. These global markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. The company’s
market position depends on its reliable product quality, dependable service and ability to develop products to meet evolving market needs. The company faces a mix of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to
smaller manufacturers that offer a limited selection of products, and to a limited extent, reprocessors of single-use medical devices. Many of Bard’s products are patented or are the subject of patent applications. Patent protection also
affects the company’s market position.  In keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in healthcare delivery, the trend
among hospitals and other customers of medical device manufacturers is to consolidate purchases to enhance purchasing power. The medical device industry has also experienced some consolidation, partly in order to offer a broader range of products to
large purchasers. As a result, sales transactions are more complex and tend to involve more significant contracts than in the past. This enhanced purchasing power has placed pressure on product pricing. For more information, see Item 1A. “Risk
Factors.”  Marketing  The
company’s products are distributed domestically directly to hospitals and other healthcare institutions as well as through numerous hospital/surgical supply and other medical specialty distributors with whom the company has distribution
agreements. In international markets, products are distributed either directly or through distributors with the practice varying by country. Full-time representatives of the company in domestic and international markets carry on sales promotion.
Sales to distributors, which supply the company’s products to many end users, accounted for approximately 33% of the company’s net sales in each of the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, and the five largest distributors combined accounted for
approximately 65%, 67% and 70%, respectively, of such sales for the corresponding years. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the company’s consolidated net sales in 2008 or in 2007. The largest distributor, Owens & Minor,
Inc., accounted for more than 10% of the company’s net sales in 2006.  In order to service its customers, optimize logistics, lower
facilities costs and reduce finished goods inventory levels, the company operates consolidated distribution facilities in both the United States and Europe. Orders are normally shipped within a matter of days after receipt. Backlog is not considered
a significant issue for the company.  Most of the products sold by the company,
whether manufactured by the company or by others, are sold under the BARD® trade name or trademark and/or other trademarks owned by the company. Products manufactured for the company by
outside suppliers are generally produced according to the company’s specifications.  Available Information  <P
STYLE="margin-top:6px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">The company makes available, free of charge, on its website located at www.crbard.com, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">The company has adopted, and has posted on its website at www.crbard.com, a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers that applies to the
company’s chief executive officer, chief financial officer and controller. To the extent required, the company intends to disclose any amendments to, or waivers from, the Code of Ethics on the website set forth above. In addition, the
company’s audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, governance committee charter, corporate governance guidelines and business ethics policy are also posted on the company’s website at www.crbard.com. A copy of any of
these documents is also available, free of charge, upon 
  
 I-4 




Table of Contents

 
written request sent to C. R. Bard, Inc., 730 Central Avenue, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07974, Attention: Secretary. Shareholders or other interested parties
may communicate directly with the Board of Directors, the non-management members of the Board of Directors or the Audit Committee. The process for doing so is described on the company’s website at www.crbard.com.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:18px;margin-bottom:0px">Regulation  The development, manufacture, sale and
distribution of the company’s products are subject to comprehensive government regulation both within and outside the United States. Government regulation, including detailed inspection of and controls over research and laboratory procedures,
clinical investigations, manufacturing, marketing, sampling, distribution, record keeping and storage and disposal practices, substantially increases the time, difficulty and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to market newly
developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions can result in the seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale and other civil or criminal sanctions. For more
information, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  Medical device laws are in effect in many of the countries in which the company does
business outside the United States. These range from comprehensive device approval requirements for some or all of the company’s medical device products to requests for product data or certifications. Inspection of and controls over
manufacturing as well as monitoring of device-related adverse events are also components of most of these regulatory systems. The number and scope of these requirements are increasing. For more information, see Item 1A. “Risk
Factors.”  Third-Party Reimbursement and Healthcare Cost Containment  <P
STYLE="margin-top:6px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">Reimbursement remains an important strategic consideration in the development and marketing of medical devices and procedures. Difficulty in obtaining
coverage, coding and payment can be a significant barrier to the commercial success of a new product or procedure. The consequences can include slow adoption in the marketplace and inadequate payment levels that can linger for months or even years.
For more information, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  Bard’s products are purchased principally by hospitals or
physicians, which typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of
customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of medical device companies because it can affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay.
Manufacturers such as Bard rely on insurance reimbursement to create favorable markets for their products, while providers depend on this reimbursement to incorporate new products into their medical practices. As the largest single insurer in the
United States, Medicare has a profound influence on the healthcare market. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) formulates national and local coverage policy and sets payment rates for facilities and physician providers.
Additionally, most private payors will follow the lead of CMS when developing their policies and payment rates. Technology assessment organizations, including the one run by Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, are consulted by public and private
payors to evaluate the relative merits of new technologies and their impact on net health outcomes in an effort to get as much value for the healthcare dollar as possible.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">The processes necessary for a manufacturer to obtain appropriate levels of reimbursement are complex and usually vary from payor to payor. Third-party
reimbursements to hospitals and ambulatory care facilities are typically made for procedures or episodes of care, which include the costs of devices, supplies and equipment, and provide an incentive for efficient care and careful use of more
expensive technologies.  Third-party payors for hospital services in the United States and abroad are increasingly focused on strategies to
control spending on healthcare and reward improvements in quality and patient outcomes. In 
  
 I-5 




Table of Contents

 
addition, in an effort to better align incentives for providers, CMS and several large commercial payors have recently adopted policies that will cease to
pay for certain preventable, hospital-acquired infections such as catheter-associated urinary tract infections. The company believes that the Bardex® IC products are well-positioned to help
its customers prevent certain hospital acquired infections. The uncertainty and complexity of future legislation and payor requirements, however, make it difficult to ultimately predict the impact on our business.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:18px;margin-bottom:0px">Raw Materials  The company uses a wide variety of
readily available oil-based resins, textiles, alloys and latex materials for conversion into its devices. These materials are primarily purchased from external suppliers. Certain of the raw materials are available only from single-source suppliers.
Materials are purchased from selected suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, sole-source availability, cost effectiveness or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. Bard works closely with its suppliers to assure continuity of
supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. For more information, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  Environment  <P
STYLE="margin-top:6px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">The company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations both within and outside the United States. The operations of the company, like those
of other medical device companies, involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. While the company continues to make capital and operational expenditures relating to
compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations, management believes that such compliance will not have a material impact on the company’s competitive position, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. For more
information, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.”  Employees  <P
STYLE="margin-top:6px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">The company had approximately 11,000 employees as of December 31, 2008.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Seasonality  The company’s business is not affected to any material extent by seasonal factors.
 Research and Development  The company
is engaged in both internal and external research and development in an effort to introduce new products, to enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, safety and reliability of its existing products and to expand the applications for which the uses of
its products are appropriate. The company is dedicated to developing and acquiring technologies that will furnish healthcare providers with a more complete line of products to treat medical conditions through less invasive procedures and in a
cost-effective manner. The company’s research and development expenditures from continuing operations were $199.1 million in 2008, $135.8 million in 2007, and $144.9 million in 2006. The company evaluates developing technologies in areas where
it may have technological or marketing expertise for possible investment or acquisition.  Intellectual Property  <P
STYLE="margin-top:6px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">Patents and other proprietary rights are important to Bard’s business. The company also relies upon trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, continuing
technological innovations and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve its competitive position. The company reviews third-party proprietary rights, including patents and patent applications, as available, in an effort to develop an effective
intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities and monitor the intellectual property claims of others.  <FONT
SIZE="1"> 
 I-6 




Table of Contents

 The company owns an extensive portfolio of patents and has numerous patent applications pending in the
United States and in certain foreign countries that relate to aspects of the technology used in many of the company’s products. The company’s policy is to file patent applications in the United States and foreign countries where rights are
available and where the company believes it is commercially advantageous to do so. However, the standards for international protection of intellectual property vary widely. The company does not consider its business to be materially dependent upon
any individual patent. For more information, see . Risk Factors
 An investor should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in
our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in evaluating our business. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. The occurrence of any of these events
or circumstances could individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity, and/or results of operations.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Defects or failures associated with our products could lead to recalls or safety alerts, negative publicity regarding the company and litigation, including product liability claims, that could adversely affect
our business and reputation and result in loss of customers.  The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices of the types
we produce entail inherent risks. Our products are often used in clinically demanding circumstances with seriously ill patients, and many of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are implanted in the human body for long periods of time or
indefinitely. There are a number of factors that could result in an unsafe condition, injury or death of a patient with respect to products that we manufacture or sell, including component failures, manufacturing flaws, unanticipated or improper
uses of our products, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information.  These problems
could lead to a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products and could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal of these products from the body and claims against us for costs associated with the removal. Any
recall, whether voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries, could result in significant costs and significant negative publicity. Negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, could reduce market
acceptance of our products, harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, result in the loss of customers, lead to product withdrawals and/or harm our ability to market our products in the future. The foregoing problems could also result in
product liability claims being brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class or establish multi-district litigation proceedings, and while we believe that many settlements and judgments may be covered in whole or in part under our
product liability insurance policies with a limited number of insurance companies, there is no guarantee that these amounts will be adequate to cover damages and/or costs, that insurers will be able to pay claims or that coverage will be otherwise
available. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below for a description of lawsuits filed or asserted against us, including with respect to our Hernia Repair products. Moreover, in some circumstances adverse events arising from or associated
with the design, manufacture or marketing of our products could result in the FDA suspending or delaying its review of our applications for new product approvals. Any of the foregoing problems could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial position, liquidity and results of operations.   
 I-7 




Table of Contents

 We face intense competition from other companies, and our inability to continue to effectively develop, acquire
and/or market new products and technologies could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  The medical
device business is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change. Our customers consider many factors when choosing among products, including product features and reliability, product quality, product technology, clinical
outcomes, product availability, price and product services provided by the manufacturer. Product introductions, alternative therapies or enhancements by competitors that provide better features and/or lower pricing, may make our products or proposed
products obsolete or less competitive.  As a result, we engage in product development and improvement programs to maintain and improve our
competitive position. We may not, however, be successful in enhancing existing products or developing new products or technologies that will achieve regulatory approval or receive market acceptance. As part of our competitive strategy, we also
pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses, technologies and products to facilitate our future business strategies. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, consummate transactions or obtain agreements with
favorable terms. Further, once a business is acquired, any inability to successfully integrate the business, failure to retain and develop its workforce or failure to establish and maintain appropriate controls could adversely affect our ability to
realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. If we fail to develop new products, enhance existing products or identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses, technologies and products, or otherwise compete effectively, our business
and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive
reimbursement practices of third-party payors and cost containment measures could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices that our customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures using our
devices.  Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians which typically bill various third-party payors, such as
governmental programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and comparable foreign programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate
reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of medical device companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies by country and
can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant overseas markets such as Germany, Japan, France and other countries may limit, reduce or eliminate reimbursement
for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Even when we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and
governmental third-party payors.  Major third-party payors for hospital services in the United States and abroad continue to work to
contain healthcare costs through, among other things, the introduction of cost containment incentives and closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers. For example, in an effort to decrease costs, certain
hospitals and other customers resterilize our products intended for a single use or purchase reprocessed products from third-party reprocessors in lieu of purchasing new products from us.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">Further legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international reimbursement systems in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for
procedures using our medical devices or denies coverage for these procedures, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our
products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. These outcomes, along with cost containment measures, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 
 I-8 




Table of Contents

 An interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw
materials may adversely affect our business.  We manufacture our products at facilities located throughout the world, some of which
are in areas that are prone to hurricanes and other natural disasters. In some cases, certain of our key products are manufactured at one facility. If an event occurred that resulted in damage to one or more of our facilities, we may be unable to
manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. In addition, we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing our products from numerous suppliers in various countries. For reasons of quality assurance, sole
source availability or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. Due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our
products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. As a result, a reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or
components, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  We are subject to a comprehensive system of federal,
state and international laws and regulations, and we could be the subject of an enforcement action or face lawsuits and monetary or equitable judgments.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Our operations are affected by various state, federal and international healthcare, environmental, antitrust, anti-corruption and employment laws, including for example various FDA and international regulations and
the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). We are subject to periodic inspections to determine compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation requirements, current medical device adverse
event reporting regulations and foreign rules and regulations. Product approvals by the FDA and other foreign regulators can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial
approval. The failure to comply with regulatory standards or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in FDA Form-483 notices and/or Warning Letters, fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory
clearances, detainment, seizures or recalls of products (with the attendant expenses), the banning of a particular device, an order to replace or refund the cost of any device previously manufactured or distributed, operating restrictions and civil
or criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">In addition, the healthcare industry is under scrutiny from state governments and the federal government with respect to industry practices in the area
of sales and marketing. If our marketing or sales activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, or other applicable laws, we may be subject to warnings from the FDA or enforcement actions from the FDA or other enforcement
bodies. In the recent past, medical device manufacturers have been the subject of investigations from state and federal prosecutors related to their relationships with doctors, among other activities or practices. See Item 3. “Legal
Proceedings” below for a description of a subpoena received by the company’s Urological Division relating to the Division’s brachytherapy business. If an enforcement action involving the company were to occur, it could result in
penalties, fines, the exclusion of our products from reimbursement under federally-funded programs and/or prohibitions on our ability to sell our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
 We operate in many parts of the world and our policies require compliance with the FCPA. Failure to comply with the FCPA could subject the
company to civil or criminal penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  In addition,
lawsuits by employees, customers, licensors, licensees, suppliers, business partners, distributors, shareholders or competitors with respect to how we conduct our business could be very costly and could substantially disrupt our business. Disputes
from time-to-time with companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to resolve these disputes on terms favorable to us. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below for a description of lawsuits against
the company, including the lawsuit entitled 
  
 I-9 




Table of Contents

 
St. Francis Medical Center, et al. v. C. R. Bard, Inc., et al. The occurrence of an adverse monetary or equitable judgment
or a large expenditure in connection with a settlement of any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:18px;margin-bottom:0px">We are substantially dependent on patent and proprietary rights and could incur significant costs defending and protecting those rights or face restrictions or
additional costs in connection with the sale of our products.  We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent
litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards (treble damages under certain circumstances) and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant damage awards, settlement
payments or royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. At any given time, we are generally involved as either a plaintiff or a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for
prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation incident to our business, we believe that an adverse outcome associated with any pending litigation could generally have a material adverse effect on our
business and results of operations in a future period.  We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to
protect our proprietary intellectual property and will continue to do so. Although these patents, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements may not successfully protect our intellectual property, we intend to defend against threats to our
intellectual property. Our pending patent applications may not result in patents issuing to us, and patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and these patents may not be
sufficiently broad to provide us with a competitive advantage. In addition, we operate in foreign markets where protection or enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weaker than in the United States, and inadequate patent protection in
those markets may adversely affect our competitive position. Third parties could also obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and we cannot assure you that the required licenses would be available on
reasonable terms or at all. Any inability to protect our intellectual property or obtain necessary licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. For more information, see Item 3. “Legal
Proceedings.”  Our international sales and operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that vary by country and which could have a
material impact on our business or results of operations.  Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 32 percent of our net
sales in 2008. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. In addition, many of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside of the United States. As a
result, our sales and profitability from our international operations and our ability to implement our overall business strategy are subject to risks and uncertainties that can vary by country, including those related to political and economic
conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in tax laws, regulatory and reimbursement programs and policies, and the protection of intellectual property rights.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Current economic instability could adversely affect our operations.  Financial markets and the
economies in the United States and internationally have experienced extreme disruption and volatility and conditions could worsen. This has resulted in severely diminished liquidity and credit availability in the market, which could impair our
ability to access capital or adversely affect our operations. The economic downturn may also, among other things:   


 
•
 
 create downward pressure on the pricing of our products;   


 
•
 
 affect the collection of accounts receivable;   


 
•
 
 increase the sales cycle for certain of our products;   


 
•
 
 slow the adoption of new technology;   
 I-10 




Table of Contents




 
•
 
 adversely affect our customers, causing them to reduce spending; and  <P
STYLE="font-size:6px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


 
•
 
 adversely affect our suppliers, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">Any of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:18px;margin-bottom:0px">Item 1B