Item 1A.
“Risk Factors.”  Marketing  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The company’s products are distributed domestically directly to hospitals and other healthcare institutions, as well as through numerous hospital/surgical supply and other medical specialty
distributors with whom the company has distribution agreements. In international markets, products are distributed either directly or through distributors, with the practice varying by country. Full-time representatives of the company in domestic
and international markets engage in sales promotion. Sales to distributors, which supply the company’s products to many end-users, accounted for approximately 32%, 33% and 33% of the company’s net sales for the years ended 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively, and the five largest distributors combined accounted for approximately 66%, 65% and 65%, respectively, of distributors’ sales for the corresponding years. One large distributor accounted for approximately 9% of the
company’s net sales in 2010 and approximately 10% in each of 2009 and 2008.  In order to service its customers, optimize
logistics, lower facilities costs and reduce finished goods inventory levels, the company operates consolidated distribution facilities in both the United States and Europe. Orders are normally shipped within a matter of days after receipt. Backlog
is not currently considered a significant issue for the company.  Most of the products sold by the
company, whether manufactured by the company or by others, are sold under the BARD® trade name or trademark
and/or other trademarks owned by the company. Products manufactured for the company by outside suppliers are generally produced according to the company’s specifications.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Available Information  The company makes available, free of charge, on its
website located at www.crbard.com, its annual reports to shareholders, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably
practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The company has adopted, and has posted on its website, a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers that applies to the company’s chief executive officer, chief financial officer and controller.
To the extent required, the company intends to disclose any amendments to, or waivers of, the Code of Ethics on its website. In addition, the company’s audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, governance committee charter,
corporate governance guidelines and business ethics policy are also posted on the company’s website. From time-to-time Bard uses its website to distribute company information, including material information. Financial
and other information, including material information regarding the company is routinely posted on and accessible at http://investorrelations.crbard.com/. In addition, shareholders or interested parties may enroll to automatically
receive email alerts and other information about Bard by visiting the “Email Alert Service” section at http://investorrelations.crbard.com/. Shareholders, employees or other interested parties may communicate directly with the
Board of Directors, the non-management members of the Board of Directors or the Audit Committee. The process for doing so is described on the company’s website.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Regulation  The development, manufacture, sale and distribution of the
company’s products are subject to comprehensive government regulation both within and outside the United States. Government regulation, 
   I-4





Table of Contents

 
including detailed inspection of and controls over research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, manufacturing, marketing, sampling, distribution, recordkeeping and storage and
disposal practices, substantially increases the time, difficulty and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to market newly developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions can result in the seizure or recall of
products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Medical device laws are in effect in many of the countries in which the company does business outside the United States. These range from comprehensive device approval requirements for some or all of the
company’s medical device products to requests for product data or certifications. Inspection of and controls over manufacturing as well as monitoring of device-related adverse events are also components of most of these regulatory systems. The
number and scope of these requirements are increasing.  For more information, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”
 Third-Party Reimbursement and Healthcare Cost Containment  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Reimbursement remains an important strategic consideration in the development and marketing of medical devices and procedures. Difficulty in obtaining coverage, coding and payment can be a significant
barrier to the commercial success of a new product or procedure. The consequences can include slow adoption in the marketplace and inadequate payment levels that can linger for months or even years. For more information, see Item 1A. “Risk
Factors.”  Bard’s products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians, which typically bill various
third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for
products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of medical device companies because it can affect the products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Manufacturers such as Bard rely on insurance
reimbursement to create favorable markets for their products, while providers depend on this reimbursement to incorporate new products into their medical practices. As the largest single insurer in the United States, Medicare has a profound
influence on the healthcare market. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) formulates national and local coverage policy and sets payment rates for facilities and physician providers. Additionally, most private payors will
follow the lead of CMS when developing their policies and payment rates. Technology assessment organizations, including the one run by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, are consulted by public and private payors to evaluate the relative merits
of new technologies and their impact on net health outcomes in an effort to get as much value for the healthcare dollar as possible.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The processes necessary for a manufacturer to obtain appropriate levels of reimbursement are complex and usually vary from payor to payor. Third-party reimbursements to hospitals and ambulatory care
facilities are typically made for procedures or episodes of care, which include the costs of devices, supplies and equipment, and provide an incentive for efficient care and careful use of more expensive technologies. 
Third-party payors for hospital services in the United States and abroad are increasingly focused on strategies to
control spending on healthcare and reward improvements in quality and patient outcomes. In addition, in an effort to better align incentives for providers, CMS and several large commercial payors have recently adopted policies that will cease to pay
for certain preventable, hospital-acquired infections such as catheter-associated urinary tract infections. The company believes that the Bardex<SUP
STYLE="vertical-align:baseline; position:relative; bottom:.8ex">® IC products are well-positioned to help its customers prevent certain hospital acquired infections. However, the uncertainty and complexity of future legislation
seeking to reform the health insurance market and the healthcare delivery system make it difficult to ultimately predict the impact on Bard’s business. 
   I-5





Table of Contents

 Raw Materials  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The company uses a wide variety of readily available oil-based resins, textiles, alloys and latex materials for the manufacture of its devices. These materials are primarily purchased from external
suppliers. Certain of the raw materials are available only from single-source suppliers. Materials are purchased from selected suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, sole-source availability, cost effectiveness or constraints resulting from
regulatory requirements. Bard works closely with its suppliers to assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. For more information, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” 
Environment  The company
is subject to various environmental laws and regulations both within and outside the United States. The operations of the company, like those of other medical device companies, involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws,
primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. While the company continues to make capital and operational expenditures relating to compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations, management believes that such compliance will
not have a material effect on the company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. For more information, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.”  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Employees  The company had approximately 11,700 employees as of December
31, 2010.  Seasonality  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The company’s business is not affected to any material extent by seasonal factors. 
Research and Development 
The company is engaged in both internal and external research and development in an effort to introduce new products, to enhance the
effectiveness, ease of use, safety and reliability of its existing products, and to expand the applications for which the uses of its products are appropriate. The company is dedicated to developing and acquiring technologies that will furnish
healthcare providers with a more complete line of products to treat medical conditions through less invasive procedures and in a cost-effective manner. The company’s research and development expenditures, including purchased research and
development, were $185.4 million in 2010, $179.6 million in 2009, and $199.1 million in 2008. The company evaluates developing technologies primarily in areas where it may have technological or marketing expertise for possible investment or
acquisition.  Intellectual Property  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Patents and other proprietary rights are important to Bard’s business. The company also relies upon trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing
opportunities to maintain and improve its competitive position.  The company owns an extensive portfolio of patents and has
numerous patent applications pending in the United States and in certain foreign countries that relate to aspects of the technology used in many of the company’s products. The company’s policy is to file patent applications in the United
States and foreign countries where rights are available and where the company believes it is commercially advantageous to do so. However, the standards for international protection of intellectual property vary widely. The company does not consider
its business to be materially dependent upon any individual patent. For more information, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” 
   I-6





Table of Contents

 Item 1A. Risk Factors 
An investor should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our
other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in evaluating our business. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. The occurrence of any of these events or
circumstances could individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and/or liquidity.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Defects or failures associated with our products could lead to recalls or safety alerts, negative publicity regarding the company and litigation, including product liability claims, that could
adversely affect our business and reputation and result in loss of customers. Loss reserves are difficult to estimate. 
The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices of the types we produce entail inherent risks. Our products are often used in
clinically demanding circumstances with seriously ill patients, and many of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. There are a number of factors that could result in an
unsafe condition, injury or death of a patient with respect to products that we manufacture or sell, including component failures, manufacturing flaws, unanticipated or improper uses of our products, design defects or inadequate disclosure of
product-related risks or product-related information.  These problems could lead to a recall of, or safety alert relating to,
one or more of our products and could ultimately result in the removal of these products from the body and claims against us for costs associated with the removal. Any recall, whether voluntary or required by the United States Food and Drug
Administration (“FDA”) or similar governmental authorities in other countries, could result in significant costs and significant negative publicity. Negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, could reduce market acceptance of our
products, harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, result in the loss of customers, lead to product withdrawals and/or harm our ability to market our products in the future. The foregoing problems could also result in product liability
claims or lawsuits including those being brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class or establish multi-district litigation proceedings. While we believe that many settlements and judgments, as well as legal defense costs, may
be covered in whole or in part under our product liability insurance policies with a limited number of insurance companies, amounts recovered under these policies may be less than the stated coverage limits and may not be adequate to cover damages
and/or costs. In addition, there is no guarantee that insurers will pay claims or that coverage will be otherwise available. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below for a description of lawsuits filed or asserted against us, including the
Hernia Product Claims, Women’s Health Product Claims and Filter Product Claims (each, as defined below). Moreover, in some circumstances adverse events arising from or associated with the design, manufacture or marketing of our products could
result in the FDA suspending or delaying its review of our applications for new product approvals. Any of the foregoing problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.
 Reserves established for estimated losses, including with respect to legal proceedings, do not represent an exact calculation
of our actual liability but instead represent our estimate of the ultimate loss at the time the reserve is established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates, actual losses may be materially higher or lower than the
related reserve. Liabilities in excess of our reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">We face intense competition from other companies, and our inability to continue to effectively develop, acquire and/or market new products and technologies could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.  The medical device business is intensely competitive
and is characterized by rapid technological change. Our customers consider many factors when choosing among products, including product features and reliability, product quality, product technology, clinical outcomes, product availability, price and
product services provided by the manufacturer. Product introductions, alternative therapies or enhancements by competitors that provide better features and/or lower pricing, may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive.

   I-7





Table of Contents

 As a result, we engage in product development and improvement programs to maintain and
improve our competitive position. We may not, however, be successful in enhancing existing products or developing new products or technologies that will achieve regulatory approval or receive market acceptance. As part of our business strategy, we
also pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses, technologies and products. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, consummate transactions or obtain agreements with favorable terms. Further, once a business is
acquired, any inability to successfully integrate the business, failure to retain and develop its workforce or failure to establish and maintain appropriate controls could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any
acquisition. If we fail to develop new products, enhance existing products or identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses, technologies and products, or otherwise compete effectively, our business, results of operations and/or financial
condition could be adversely affected.  Domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive
reimbursement practices of third-party payors and cost containment measures could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices that our customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures using our
devices.  Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians which typically bill various third-party
payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and comparable foreign programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain
appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of medical device companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies by
country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant overseas markets such as Germany, Japan, France and other countries may limit, reduce or eliminate
reimbursement for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is
obtained from private and governmental third-party payors.  Major third-party payors for hospital services in the United
States and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs through, among other things, the introduction of cost containment incentives and closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers. For example, in
an effort to decrease costs, certain hospitals and other customers resterilize our products intended for a single use or purchase reprocessed products from third-party reprocessors in lieu of purchasing new products from us. 
Further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the United States and abroad, or adverse decisions relating
to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or result in the denial of coverage for those procedures. Examples of these reforms or
adverse decisions include price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements. Any of such reforms or adverse decisions resulting in
restrictive reimbursement practices or denials of coverage could have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. These outcomes, along with cost containment measures, could have
a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations.  An interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or
an inability to obtain key components or raw materials may adversely affect our business and/or results of operations. 
We manufacture our products at facilities located throughout the world, some of which are in areas that are prone to hurricanes and other
natural disasters. In some cases, certain of our key products are manufactured at one facility. If an event occurred that resulted in damage to one or more of our facilities, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at previous levels
or at all. In addition, we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing our products from numerous suppliers in various countries. For reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability or cost effectiveness, certain
components and raw materials are 
   I-8





Table of Contents

 
available only from a sole supplier. Due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to
quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials or do so without excessive cost. As a result, a reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or
components, could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations.  We are subject to a comprehensive system
of federal, state and international laws and regulations, and we could be the subject of an enforcement action or face lawsuits and monetary or equitable judgments.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">We operate in many parts of the world, and our operations are affected by various state, federal and international healthcare, environmental, antitrust, anti-corruption and employment laws, including for
example various FDA and international regulations, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). We are subject to periodic inspections to determine compliance with the FDA’s Quality System
Regulation requirements, current medical device adverse event reporting regulations, and foreign rules and regulations. The failure to comply with these laws and regulatory standards or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or
manufacturer: (i) could result in FDA Form-483 notices and/or Warning Letters, fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, detainment, seizures or recalls of products (with the attendant expenses), the banning of a particular device, an
order to replace or refund the cost of any device previously manufactured or distributed, operating restrictions and/or civil or criminal prosecution, and/or penalties, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product
liability claims; and (ii) could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">It can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals to market a medical device. Approvals might not be granted for new devices on a timely basis, if at all. Product approvals by the FDA and
other foreign regulators can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. Regulations are also subject to change as a result of legislative, administrative or
judicial action, which may further increase our costs or reduce sales. As an example, the FDA has proposed changes to the 510(k) process, which is the clearance process for medical devices that are substantially equivalent to other legally-marketed
devices. If changes to the 510(k) process are adopted, the time and cost to get many of our medical devices to market could increase; however, at this time, the impact that any changes could have is uncertain. Our failure to maintain approvals or
obtain approval for new products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">The healthcare industry is under scrutiny from state governments and the federal government with respect to industry practices in the area of sales and marketing. If our marketing or sales activities fail
to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, or other applicable laws, we may be subject to warnings from the FDA or enforcement actions from the FDA or other enforcement bodies. In the recent past, medical device manufacturers have been
the subject of investigations from state and federal prosecutors related to their relationships with doctors and off-label promotion of products, among other activities or practices. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below for a description
of a matter relating to the company’s brachytherapy business. If an enforcement action involving the company were to occur, it could result in penalties, fines, the exclusion of our products from reimbursement under federally-funded programs
and/or prohibitions on our ability to sell our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">In addition, lawsuits by employees, customers, licensors, licensees, suppliers, business partners, distributors, shareholders or competitors with respect to how we conduct our business could be very
costly and could substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time-to-time with companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to resolve these disputes on terms favorable to us. See Item 3. “Legal
Proceedings” below for a description of lawsuits against the company, including the lawsuit entitled St. Francis Medical Center, et al. v. C. R. Bard, Inc., et al. The occurrence of an adverse monetary or
equitable judgment or a large expenditure in connection with a settlement of any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. 
   I-9





Table of Contents

 We are substantially dependent on patent and proprietary rights and incur significant costs defending
and protecting these rights. We also may face restrictions or additional costs in connection with the sale of our products.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation is generally expensive, complex and can result in significant damage awards (treble damages under certain
circumstances), injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products, settlement payments or royalty payments to enable us to continue selling the products. At any given time, we are generally involved as either a plaintiff
or a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation incident to our business, we believe that an
adverse outcome associated with any pending litigation could generally have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property and will continue to do so. Although these patents, trade secrets and
nondisclosure agreements may not successfully protect our intellectual property, we intend to defend against threats to our intellectual property. Our pending patent applications may not result in patents issuing to us, and patents issued to or
licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and these patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide us with a competitive advantage. In addition, we operate in foreign markets where protection or
enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weaker than in the United States, and inadequate patent protection in those markets may adversely affect our competitive position. Third parties could also obtain patents that may require us to
negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and we cannot assure you that the required licenses would be available on reasonable terms or at all. Any inability to protect our intellectual property or obtain necessary licenses could have a material
adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations. For more information, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.”  Our
international sales and operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that vary by country and which could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations. 
Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 31% of our net sales in 2010. We anticipate that sales from international operations
will continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. In addition, many of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside of the United States. As a result, our sales and profitability from our international operations
and our ability to implement our overall business strategy are subject to risks and uncertainties that can vary by country, including those related to political and economic conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in tax
laws, regulatory and reimbursement programs and policies, and the protection of intellectual property rights.  The adoption of
healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">In March 2010, significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system were adopted in the form of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”). The PPACA includes provisions that,
among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize
healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. While we are still evaluating the impact of this tax on our overall business, in 2010 this would have equated to an excise tax of
approximately $43 million. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. The PPACA and these proposals could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which the company
sells its products. In addition, the excise tax will increase our cost of doing business. The impact of the PPACA and these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations. 
Current economic instability could adversely affect the company.  <FONT
STYLE="font-family:Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Financial markets and the economies in the United States and internationally may continue to experience disruption and volatility as they have in recent years and conditions could worsen. As a result, the
economic environment may, among other things:   


 
•
 
 create downward pressure on the pricing of our products; 
   I-10





Table of Contents




 
•
 
 affect the collection of accounts receivable;   


 
•
 
 increase the sales cycle for certain of our products; 
 


 
•
 
 slow the adoption of new technology;   


 
•
 
 adversely affect our customers, causing them to reduce spending; and 
 


 
•
 
 adversely affect our suppliers, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products. 
Any of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or
liquidity.  Item 1B