Item 1A. Risk Factors  Defects or failures associated with our products could lead to recalls or safety alerts,
negative publicity regarding the company and litigation which could adversely affect our business.  The design, manufacture and
marketing of medical devices of the types we produce entail inherent risks. Our products are often used in clinically demanding circumstances with seriously ill patients, and many of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are implanted in the
human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. There are a number of factors that could result in an unsafe condition, injury or death of a patient with respect to products which we manufacture or sell, including component failures,
manufacturing flaws, unanticipated uses of our products, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">These problems could lead to a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products and could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of these products and claims against us
for costs associated with the removal. Any recall, whether voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries, could result in significant costs and significant negative publicity. Negative publicity, whether
accurate or inaccurate, could reduce market acceptance of our products, result in decreased product demand or product withdrawals and harm our ability to market our products in the future. The foregoing problems could also result in product
liability claims being brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class, and while we believe that many settlements and judgments may be covered in whole or in part under our product liability insurance policies, there is no
guarantee that these amounts will be adequate to cover damages and/or costs. Moreover, in some circumstances adverse events arising from or associated with the design, manufacture or marketing of our products could result in the FDA suspending or
delaying its review of our applications for new product approvals. Any of the foregoing problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:18px;margin-bottom:0px">We face intense competition from other companies, and an inability to continue to effectively develop, acquire and/or market new products and technologies may
prevent us from being competitive, or achieving significant market penetration or improved operating results.  The medical device
business is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change. Our customers consider many factors when choosing among products, including product features and reliability, clinical outcomes, product availability, price and
product services provided by the manufacturer. Product 
  
 I-7 




Table of Contents

 
introductions, or enhancements by competitors that provide better features or lower pricing, may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less
competitive.  As a result, we are continually engaged in product development and improvement programs to maintain and improve our
competitive position. We cannot, however, guarantee that we will be successful in enhancing existing products or developing new products or technologies that will timely achieve regulatory approval or receive market acceptance. As part of our
competitive strategy, we are also engaged in the acquisition of complementary businesses, technologies and products to facilitate our future business strategies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify appropriate acquisition
candidates, consummate transactions or obtain agreements with favorable terms. Further, once a business is acquired, any inability to integrate the business, failure to retain and develop its workforce or failure to establish and maintain
appropriate controls could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. If we fail to develop new products, enhance existing products or identify and acquire complementary businesses, technologies and
products, or otherwise compete effectively, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.  Domestic and foreign legislative or
administrative reforms resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors and cost containment measures could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices that our customers are willing to pay for those
products and the number of procedures using our devices.  Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians which
typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain
appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of medical device companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies by
country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant overseas markets such as Germany, Japan, France and other countries may limit the price of or the
level at which reimbursement is provided for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. After we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement
approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors prior to introduction.  Major third-party payors for hospital
services in the United States and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs through, among other things, the introduction of cost containment incentives and closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and
employers. For example, in an effort to decrease costs, certain hospitals and other customers resterilize our products intended for a single use or purchase reprocessed products from third-party reprocessors in lieu of purchasing new products from
us.  Further legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international reimbursement systems in a manner that significantly
reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or denies coverage for these procedures, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse
impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices which our customers are willing to pay for them. These outcomes, along with cost containment measures, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
 An interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw materials may adversely affect our
business.  We manufacture our products at facilities located throughout the world, some of which are in areas that are prone to
hurricanes and other natural disasters. In some cases, certain of our key products are manufactured at one facility. If an event occurred that resulted in damage to one or more of our facilities, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products
at previous levels or at all. In addition, we purchase many of the components 
  
 I-8 




Table of Contents

 
and raw materials used in manufacturing our products from numerous suppliers in various countries. For reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability
or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. Due to the FDA’s stringent regulations and requirements regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish
additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. As a result, a reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on
our business and results of operations.  We are subject to a comprehensive system of federal and state laws and regulations, and we could be the
subject of an enforcement action or face lawsuits and monetary or equitable judgments.  Our operations are affected by various broad
state and federal healthcare, environmental, antitrust, anti-corruption and employment laws, including for example various FDA regulations and the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). We are subject
to periodic inspections to determine compliance with both the FDA’s Quality System Regulation requirements and/or current medical device adverse event reporting regulations. Product approvals by the FDA can be withdrawn due to failure to comply
with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. The failure to comply with regulatory standards or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in FDA
Form-483 notices and/or warning letters, fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products (with the attendant expenses), the banning of a particular device, an order to replace or refund the cost of any device
previously manufactured or distributed, operating restrictions and civil or criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and
results of operations.  In addition, the healthcare industry is under scrutiny from state governments and the federal government with
respect to industry practices in the area of sales and marketing. If our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from the FDA or enforcement actions from the FDA or other
enforcement bodies. In the recent past, medical device manufacturers have announced that they have received subpoenas from state and federal prosecutors seeking documents related to their relationships with doctors. See “Legal Proceedings”
below for a description of a subpoena received by the company’s Urological Division relating to the Division’s brachytherapy business. If an enforcement action involving the company were to occur, it could result in penalties and fines
and/or certain prohibitions on our ability to sell our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">We operate in many parts of the world and our policies require compliance with the FCPA. Failure to comply with the FCPA could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties and could have a material adverse
effect on our business and results of operations.  Lawsuits by employees, customers, licensors, licensees, suppliers, business partners,
distributors, shareholders or competitors with respect to how we conduct our business could be very costly and could substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure
you that we will be able to resolve these disputes on terms favorable to us. The occurrence of an adverse monetary or equitable judgment or a large expenditure in connection with a settlement of any of these matters could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. For more information, see “Legal Proceedings.”  We are
substantially dependent on patent and proprietary rights and could incur significant costs defending and protecting those rights or face restrictions or additional costs in connection with the sale of our products.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:6px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards (treble damages under
certain circumstances) and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant damage awards, settlement payments or royalty 
  
 I-9 




Table of Contents

 
payments in order to continue selling the products. At any given time, we are generally involved as either a plaintiff or a defendant in a number of patent
infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation incident to our business, we believe that an adverse outcome associated with any pending
litigation could generally have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations in a future period.  We rely on a
combination of patents, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property and will continue to do so. We cannot assure you that these patents, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements will protect our
intellectual property, but we will defend against threats to our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications will result in patents issuing to us, that patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the
future will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our freedom to operate or to provide us with a competitive advantage. In addition, we operate in foreign
markets where protection or enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weaker than in the United States, and inadequate patent protection in those markets may adversely affect our competitive position. Third parties could also obtain patents
that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and we cannot assure you that the required licenses would be available on reasonable terms or at all. For more information, see “Legal Proceedings.”  <P
STYLE="margin-top:18px;margin-bottom:0px">
Item 1B