Item 1A. Risk Factors.


 



    Distribution


 


    BD’s products are marketed in the United States and
    internationally through independent distribution channels and
    directly to end-users by BD and independent sales
    representatives. No customer accounted for 10% or more of
    revenues in fiscal year 2010. Order backlog is not material to
    BD’s business inasmuch as orders for BD products generally
    are received and filled on a current basis, except for items
    temporarily out of stock. BD’s worldwide sales are not
    generally seasonal, with the exception of certain medical
    devices in the BD Medical segment, and respiratory and flu
    diagnostic products in the BD Diagnostics segment, that relate
    to seasonal diseases such as influenza.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    BD purchases many different types of raw materials, including
    plastics, glass, metals, textiles, paper products, agricultural
    products, electronic and mechanical
    sub-assemblies
    and various biological, chemical and petrochemical products.
    Certain raw materials (primarily related to the BD Biosciences
    segment) are not available from multiple sources. In the case of
    certain principal raw materials that are available from multiple
    sources, for various reasons (including quality assurance and
    cost effectiveness), BD elects to purchase these





    
    4



Table of Contents





    raw materials from sole suppliers. In cases where there are
    regulatory requirements relating to qualification of suppliers,
    BD may not be able to establish additional or replacement
    sources on a timely basis. While BD works closely with its
    suppliers to ensure continuity of supply, the termination,
    reduction or interruption in supply of these sole-sourced raw
    materials could impact our ability to manufacture and sell
    certain of our products.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    BD conducts its research and development (“R&D”)
    activities at its operating units and at BD Technologies in
    Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. The majority of
    BD’s R&D activities are conducted in the United
    States. Outside the United States, BD conducts R&D
    activities at BD Diagnostic Systems in Quebec City, Canada, BD
    Pharmaceutical Systems in Pont de Claix, France, and BD Medical
    Surgical Systems in Tuas, Singapore. BD also collaborates with
    certain universities, medical centers and other entities on
    R&D programs, and retains individual consultants to support
    its efforts in specialized fields. BD spent approximately
    $431 million, $405 million and $383 million on
    research and development during the fiscal years ended
    September 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.


 



    Intellectual
    Property and Licenses


 


    BD owns significant intellectual property, including patents,
    patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how,
    copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other
    countries. BD is also licensed under domestic and foreign
    patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets,
    know-how, copyrights and trademarks owned by others. In the
    aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are
    of material importance to BD’s business. BD believes,
    however, that no single patent, technology, trademark,
    intellectual property asset or license is material in relation
    to BD’s business as a whole, or to any business segment.


 



    Competition


 


    BD operates in the increasingly complex and challenging medical
    technology marketplace whose dynamics are changing.
    Technological advances and scientific discoveries have
    accelerated the pace of change in medical technology, the
    regulatory environment of medical products is becoming more
    complex and vigorous, and economic conditions have resulted in a
    challenging market. Companies of varying sizes compete in the
    global medical technology field. Some are more specialized than
    BD with respect to particular markets, and some have greater
    financial resources than BD. New companies have entered the
    field, particularly in the areas of molecular diagnostics,
    safety-engineered devices and in the life sciences, and
    established companies have diversified their business activities
    into the medical technology area. Other firms engaged in the
    distribution of medical technology products have become
    manufacturers of medical devices and instruments as well.
    Acquisitions and collaborations by and among companies seeking a
    competitive advantage also affect the competitive environment.
    In addition, the entry into the market of manufacturers located
    in China and other low-cost manufacturing locations are creating
    increased pricing pressures, particularly in developing markets.
    Some competitors have also established manufacturing sites or
    have contracted with suppliers located in these countries as a
    means to lower their costs. New entrants may also appear,
    particularly from these low-cost countries.


 


    BD competes in this evolving marketplace on the basis of many
    factors, including price, quality, innovation, service,
    reputation, distribution and promotion. The impact of these
    factors on BD’s competitive position varies among BD’s
    various product offerings. In order to remain competitive in the
    industries in which it operates, BD continues to make
    investments in research and development, quality management,
    quality improvement, product innovation and productivity
    improvement in support of its core strategy — to
    increase revenue growth by focusing on products that deliver
    greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers.




    
    5



Table of Contents






    Third-Party
    Reimbursement


 


    Healthcare providers
    and/or
    facilities are generally reimbursed for their services through
    numerous payment systems maintained by governmental agencies
    (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, the National
    Health Service in the United Kingdom, the Joint Federal
    Committee in Germany, the Commission d’Evaluation des
    Produits et prestations in France, and the Ministry for
    Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan), private insurance
    companies, and managed care organizations. The manner and level
    of reimbursement in any given case may depend on the site of
    care, the procedure(s) performed, the final patient diagnosis,
    the device(s)
    and/or
    drug(s) utilized, the available budget, or a combination of
    these factors, and coverage and payment levels are determined at
    the payer’s discretion. The coverage policies and
    reimbursement levels of these third-party payers may impact the
    decisions of healthcare providers and facilities regarding which
    medical products they purchase and the prices they are willing
    to pay for those products. Thus, changes in reimbursement level
    or method may either positively or negatively impact sales of BD
    products.


 


    While BD is actively engaged in promoting the value of its
    products for payers and patients, and it employs various efforts
    and resources to positively impact coverage, coding and payment
    processes in this regard, it has no direct control over payer
    decision-making with respect to coverage and payment levels for
    BD products. Additionally, we expect many payers to continue to
    explore cost-containment strategies (e.g., comparative
    effectiveness analyses, so-called
    “pay-for-performance”
    programs implemented by various public and private payers, and
    expansion of payment bundling schemes such as Accountable Care
    Organizations or ACOs) that could potentially impact coverage
    and/or
    payment levels for current or future BD products.


 


    As BD’s product offerings are diverse across many
    healthcare settings, they are affected to varying degrees by the
    many payment systems. Therefore, individual countries, product
    lines or product classes may be impacted by changes to these
    systems. Notably, the recently-enacted healthcare reform
    legislation in the United States (i.e., the Patient
    Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”)) provides
    for numerous, substantive changes to U.S. healthcare
    payment systems, most of which are yet to be established in
    regulations. As yet, it is unclear whether, or how, the
    implementation of regulations pursuant to the PPACA might affect
    payment for BD products. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a
    further discussion.


 



    Regulation


 


    BD’s medical technology products and operations are subject
    to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
    (“FDA”) and various other federal and state agencies,
    as well as by foreign governmental agencies. These agencies
    enforce laws and regulations that govern the development,
    testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and
    distribution, and market surveillance of BD’s medical
    products. The scope of the activities of these agencies,
    particularly in the Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific regions in
    which BD operates, has been increasing.


 


    BD actively maintains FDA/ISO Quality Systems that establish
    standards for its product design, manufacturing, and
    distribution processes. Prior to marketing or selling most of
    its products, BD must secure approval from the FDA and
    counterpart
    non-U.S. regulatory
    agencies. Following the introduction of a product, these
    agencies engage in periodic reviews of BD’s quality
    systems, as well as product performance, and advertising and
    promotional materials. These regulatory controls, as well as any
    changes in FDA policies, can affect the time and cost associated
    with the development, introduction and continued availability of
    new products. Where possible, BD anticipates these factors in
    its product development and planning processes.


 


    These agencies possess the authority to take various
    administrative and legal actions against BD, such as product
    recalls, product seizures and other civil and criminal
    sanctions. BD also undertakes voluntary compliance actions such
    as voluntary recalls.


 


    BD also is subject to various federal and state laws, and laws
    outside the United States, concerning healthcare fraud and abuse
    (including false claims laws and anti-kickback laws), global
    anti-corruption, transportation, safety and health, and customs
    and exports. Many of the agencies enforcing these laws have
    increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical
    device manufacturers in recent years. This





    
    6



Table of Contents





    appears to be part of a general trend toward increased
    regulation and enforcement activity within and outside the
    United States.


 


    BD believes it is in compliance in all material respects with
    applicable law and the regulations promulgated by the applicable
    agencies (including, without limitation, environmental laws and
    regulations), and that such compliance has not had, and will not
    have, a material adverse effect on our operations or results.
    See Item 3. Legal Proceedings.


 



    Employees


 


    As of September 30, 2010, BD had 28,803 employees, of
    whom 12,262 were employed in the U.S. (including Puerto
    Rico). BD believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.


 



    Other
    Matters


 


    Becton Dickinson France, S.A. (“BD-France”), a
    subsidiary of BD, was listed among approximately 2,200 other
    companies in an October 27, 2005 report of the Independent
    Inquiry Committee (“IIC”) of the United Nations
    (“UN”) as having been involved in humanitarian
    contracts in which unauthorized payments were suspected of
    having been made to the Iraqi Government in connection with the
    UN’s
    Oil-for-Food
    Programme (the “Programme”). In connection with the
    IIC’s report, Becton Dickinson AG, a Swiss subsidiary of
    BD, received a letter of inquiry from the Vendor Review
    Committee (“VRC”) of the United Nations Procurement
    Service dated November 22, 2005. The letter of inquiry said
    that the VRC is reviewing Becton Dickinson AG’s
    registration status in light of BD-France being listed in the
    IIC’s report and asked us for any information we might be
    able to provide relating to the findings of the report. BD
    conducted an internal review and found no evidence that BD or
    any BD employee made, authorized, or approved improper payments
    to the Iraqi Government in connection with the Programme. The
    representative utilized by BD in Iraq also unequivocally denied
    having made any such payments, and BD was unable to find any
    evidence of such payments being made by this representative. BD
    reported the results of its internal review to the VRC. In May
    2008, BD received a letter from the U.N. stating that Becton
    Dickinson AG had been suspended from the UN Secretariat
    Procurement Division’s vendor roster for a minimum period
    of six months. We have requested that Becton Dickinson AG be
    reinstated. BD believes that the suspension has not had, and
    will not have, a material adverse effect on BD.


 


    In May 2007, the French Judicial Police conducted searches of
    BD-France’s offices in France with respect to the matters
    that were the subject of the 2005 IIC report. We were informed
    that BD-France is one of a number of companies named in the IIC
    report that is being investigated by the French Judicial Police.
    In June 2009, the Belgian Federal Police contacted BD to
    interview certain individuals and review documents related to
    sales made under the Programme. We are cooperating fully with
    these investigations.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    BD maintains a website at www.bd.com. BD also makes
    available its Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    its Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    and its Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    (and amendments to those reports) as soon as reasonably
    practicable after those reports are electronically filed with,
    or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”). These filings may be obtained and printed
    free of charge at
    www.bd.com/investors.
    In addition, the written charters of the Audit Committee, the
    Compensation and Benefits Committee, the Corporate and
    Scientific Affairs Committee, the Corporate Governance and
    Nominating Committee, and the Executive Committee of the Board
    of Directors, the Company’s Corporate Governance Principles
    and its Business Conduct and Compliance Guide, are available at
    BD’s website at
    www.bd.com/investors/corporate_governance/.
    Printed copies of these materials, BD’s 2010 Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K,
    and BD’s reports and statements filed with, or furnished
    to, the SEC, may be obtained, without charge, by contacting the
    Corporate Secretary, BD, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New
    Jersey
    07417-1880,
    telephone
    201-847-6800.


 


    BD also routinely posts important information for investors on
    its website at www.bd.com/investors. BD may use this
    website as a means of disclosing material, non-public
    information and for complying with its





    
    7



Table of Contents





    disclosure obligations under Regulation FD adopted by the
    SEC. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor
    Relations portion of BD’s website noted above, in addition
    to following BD’s press releases, SEC filings, and public
    conference calls and webcasts. Our website and the information
    contained therein or connected thereto shall not be deemed to be
    incorporated into this Annual Report.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Statements


 


    BD and its representatives may from
    time-to-time
    make certain forward-looking statements in publicly-released
    materials, both written and oral, including statements contained
    in filings with the SEC and in our reports to shareholders.
    Additional information regarding our forward-looking statements
    is contained Item 7, Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    An investment in BD involves a variety of risks and
    uncertainties. The following describes some of the significant
    risks that could adversely affect BD’s business, financial
    condition, operating results or cash flows.


 



    Current
    economic conditions could adversely affect our
    operations.


 


    The current economic conditions may result in a decrease in the
    demand for our products and services, longer sales cycles,
    slower adoption of new technologies and increased price
    competition. During fiscal year 2010, lower laboratory testing
    volumes and physician visits in the United States and
    macroeconomic factors in Western Europe contributed to weakened
    demand for our products. Any austerity plans implemented in
    Europe or other regions where governments are the primary payers
    of healthcare expenses and research may also result in a
    decrease in demand for our products. In addition, while the
    current economic conditions have not impaired our ability to
    access credit markets to date, there can be no assurance that
    these conditions will not adversely affect our ability to do so
    in the future. The current economic conditions may adversely
    affect our suppliers, and there can be no assurances that BD
    will not experience any interruptions in supply in the future.
    The increase in sovereign debt during the financial crisis as a
    result of governmental intervention in the world economy poses
    additional risks to the global financial system and economic
    recovery. We have experienced delays in collecting receivables
    in Greece due to the Greek government’s liquidity problems.
    We may experience similar delays in other jurisdictions
    experiencing liquidity problems. The strength and timing of any
    economic recovery remains uncertain, and there can be no
    assurance that the economic downturn will not continue to affect
    our operations in the future.


 



    We are
    subject to foreign currency exchange risk.


 


    Over half of our fiscal year 2010 revenues were derived from
    international operations. Our revenues outside the United
    States may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates. A discussion of the financial impact of
    exchange rate fluctuations and the ways and extent to which we
    may attempt to address any impact is contained in Item. 7,
    Management’s Discussion of Financial Condition and Results
    of Operations. Any hedging activities in which we may engage
    only offset a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting
    from unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We
    cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency
    exchange rates or the degree to which we can address these risks.


 



    Federal
    healthcare reform may adversely affect our results of
    operations.


 


    The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the
    “PPACA”) was enacted in March 2010. Under the PPACA,
    beginning in 2013, medical device manufacturers, such as BD,
    will pay a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of certain medical
    devices. Sales of BD products that we estimate to be subject to
    this tax represented about 80% of BD’s total
    U.S. revenues in fiscal year 2010. We cannot predict with
    any certainty what other impact the PPACA may have on our
    business. The PPACA reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to
    hospitals, clinical laboratories and pharmaceutical companies,
    and could otherwise reduce the volume of medical procedures.
    These factors, in turn, could result in reduced demand for our
    products and increased downward pricing pressure. It is also
    possible that the PPACA will result in lower reimbursements





    
    8



Table of Contents





    for our products. While the PPACA is intended to expand health
    insurance coverage to uninsured persons in the United States,
    the impact of any overall increase in access to healthcare on
    sales of BD’s products is uncertain at this time.


 



    Changes
    in reimbursement practices of third-party payers could affect
    the demand for our products and the prices at which they are
    sold.


 


    Our sales depend, in part, on the extent to which healthcare
    providers and facilities are reimbursed by government
    authorities, private insurers and other third-party payers for
    the costs of our products. The coverage policies and
    reimbursement levels of third-party payers, which can vary among
    public and private sources, may affect which products customers
    purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for these
    products in a particular jurisdiction. Legislative or
    administrative reforms to reimbursement systems in the United
    States (as part of the PPACA) or abroad (for example, those
    under consideration in France, Germany, Italy and the United
    Kingdom) could significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures
    using BD products, or result in denial of reimbursement for
    those products. See “Third-Party Reimbursement” under
    Item 1. Business.


 



    Price
    volatility could adversely affect costs associated with our
    operations.


 


    Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by price
    volatility in the cost of raw materials, components, freight and
    energy. In particular, BD purchases supplies of resins, which
    are oil-based components used in the manufacture of certain
    products. Any significant increases in resin purchase costs
    could impact future operating results. Increases in the price of
    oil can also increase BD’s costs for packaging and
    transportation. New laws or regulations adopted in response to
    climate change could also increase energy costs and the costs of
    certain raw materials and components. These cost increases may
    adversely affect our profitability.


 



    BD’s
    future growth is dependent upon the development of new products,
    and there can be no assurance that such products will be
    developed.


 


    A significant element of our strategy is to increase revenue
    growth by focusing on products that deliver greater benefits to
    patients, healthcare workers and researchers. The development of
    these products requires significant research and development,
    clinical trials and regulatory approvals. The results of our
    product development efforts may be affected by a number of
    factors, including BD’s ability to innovate, develop and
    manufacture new products, complete clinical trials, obtain
    regulatory approvals and reimbursement in the United States and
    abroad, or gain and maintain market approval of our products. In
    addition, patents attained by others can preclude or delay our
    commercialization of a product. There can be no assurance that
    any products now in development or that we may seek to develop
    in the future will achieve technological feasibility, obtain
    regulatory approval, or gain market acceptance.


 



    The
    medical technology industry is very competitive.


 


    The medical technology industry is subject to rapid
    technological changes, and we face significant competition
    across our product lines and in each market in which our
    products are sold. We face this competition from a wide range of
    companies. These include large medical device companies, some of
    which may have greater financial and marketing resources than we
    do. We also face competition from firms that are more
    specialized than we are with respect to particular markets.
    Other firms engaged in the distribution of medical technology
    products have become manufacturers of medical devices and
    instruments as well. In some instances, competitors, including
    pharmaceutical companies, also offer, or are attempting to
    develop, alternative therapies for disease states that may be
    delivered without a medical device. The development of new or
    improved products, processes or technologies by other companies
    (such as needle-free injection technology) may render our
    products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. In
    addition, increasing customer demand for more
    environmentally-friendly products is creating another basis on
    which BD must compete. The entry into the market of
    manufacturers located in China and other low-cost manufacturing
    locations is also creating increased pricing pressures,
    particularly in developing markets. Some competitors have also





    
    9



Table of Contents





    established manufacturing sites or have contracted with
    suppliers located in these countries as a means to lower their
    costs. New entrants may also appear, particularly from these
    low-cost countries.


 



    A
    reduction or interruption in the supply of certain raw materials
    and components would adversely affect BD’s manufacturing
    operations and related product sales.


 


    BD purchases many different types of raw materials and
    components. Certain raw materials (primarily related to the BD
    Biosciences segment) and components are not available from
    multiple sources. In addition, for quality assurance,
    cost-effectiveness and other reasons, BD elects to purchase
    certain raw materials and components from sole suppliers. The
    supply of these materials can be disrupted for a number of
    reasons, including current economic conditions as described
    above. While we work with suppliers to ensure continuity of
    supply, no assurance can be given that these efforts will be
    successful. In addition, where there are regulatory requirements
    relating to the qualification of suppliers, we may not be able
    to establish additional or replacement sources on a timely
    basis. The termination, reduction or interruption in supply of
    these sole-sourced raw materials and components could impact our
    ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products.


 



    Interruption
    of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect BD’s
    future revenues and operating income.


 


    We have manufacturing sites all over the world. In addition, in
    some instances, the manufacturing of certain of our product
    lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. As a result,
    weather, natural disasters (including pandemics), terrorism,
    political change, failure to follow specific internal protocols
    and procedures, equipment malfunction, environmental factors or
    damage to one or more of our facilities could adversely affect
    our ability to manufacture our products.


 



    BD is
    subject to a number of pending lawsuits.


 


    BD is a defendant in a number of pending lawsuits, including
    purported class action lawsuits for alleged antitrust violations
    and product liability, and could be subject to additional
    lawsuits in the future. A more detailed description of these
    lawsuits is contained in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Given
    the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in
    all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could
    result from an unfavorable outcome of the litigation to which we
    are a party. In view of these uncertainties, we could incur
    charges in excess of any currently established accruals and, to
    the extent available, excess liability insurance. Any such
    future charges, individually or in the aggregate, could
    adversely affect BD’s results of operations and cash flows.


 



    Consolidation
    in the healthcare industry could adversely affect BD’s
    future revenues and operating income.


 


    The medical technology industry has experienced a significant
    amount of consolidation. As a result of this consolidation,
    competition to provide goods and services to customers has
    increased. In addition, group purchasing organizations and
    integrated health delivery networks have served to concentrate
    purchasing decisions for some customers, which has placed
    pricing pressure on medical device suppliers. Further
    consolidation in the industry could exert additional pressure on
    the prices of our products.


 



    Product
    defects could adversely affect the results of our
    operations.


 


    The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices involve
    certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects,
    unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of
    risks relating to the use of our products can lead to injury or
    other adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or
    safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or
    required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other
    countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal
    of a product from the market. A recall could result in
    significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to
    our reputation that could reduce demand for our products.
    Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also
    result in product liability claims





    
    10



Table of Contents





    being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse
    events could also cause delays in new product approvals.


 



    We may
    experience difficulties implementing our enterprise resource
    planning system.


 


    We are engaged in a project to upgrade our enterprise resource
    planning (“ERP”) system. Our ERP system is critical to
    our ability to accurately maintain books and records, record
    transactions, provide important information to our management
    and prepare our financial statements. The design and
    implementation of the new ERP system has required, and will
    continue to require, the investment of significant financial and
    human resources. The total cost needed to implement the new ERP
    system may turn out to be more than we currently anticipate. In
    addition, we may not be able to successfully implement the new
    ERP system without experiencing difficulties. Any disruptions,
    delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the
    new ERP system could adversely affect our ability to process
    orders, ship products, provide services and customer support,
    send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual
    obligations or otherwise operate our business.


 



    BD is
    subject to extensive regulation.


 


    BD is subject to extensive regulation by the FDA pursuant to the
    Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, by comparable agencies in
    foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and
    governing bodies. Most of BD’s products must receive
    clearance or approval from the FDA or
    non-U.S. counterpart
    regulatory agencies before they can be marketed or sold. The
    process for obtaining marketing approval or clearance may take a
    significant period of time and require the expenditure of
    substantial resources, and these may be increasing. The process
    may also require changes to our products or result in
    limitations on the indicated uses of the products. Also,
    governmental agencies may impose new requirements regarding
    registration, labeling or prohibited materials that may require
    us to modify or re-register products already on the market or
    otherwise impact our ability to market our products. In
    addition, once clearance or approval has been obtained for a
    product, there is an obligation to ensure that all applicable
    FDA and other regulatory requirements continue to be met.


 


    Following the introduction of a product, these agencies also
    periodically review our manufacturing processes and product
    performance. Our failure to comply with the applicable good
    manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting, clinical trial
    and other requirements of these agencies could delay or prevent
    the production, marketing or sale of our products and result in
    fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, closure
    of manufacturing sites, seizures or recalls of products and
    damage to our reputation. Recent changes in enforcement practice
    by the FDA and other agencies have resulted in increased
    enforcement activity, which increases the compliance risk for BD
    and other companies in our industry.


 



    We cannot
    guarantee that any of BD’s strategic acquisitions,
    investments or alliances will be successful.


 


    While our strategy to increase revenue growth is driven
    primarily by internal product development, we seek to supplement
    our growth through strategic acquisitions, investments and
    alliances. Such transactions are inherently risky. The success
    of any acquisition, investment or alliance may be affected by a
    number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and
    value the potential business opportunity or to successfully
    integrate it into our existing business. There can be no
    assurance that any past or future transaction will be successful.


 



    The
    international operations of BD’s business may subject BD to
    certain business risks.


 


    BD operations outside the United States subject BD to certain
    risks, including the effects of fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange (as discussed above); the spread of a global economic
    downturn; changes in foreign regulatory requirements; local
    product preferences; difficulty in establishing, staffing and
    managing foreign operations; differing labor regulations;
    changes in tax laws; potential political instability; trade
    barriers; weakening of the protection of intellectual property
    rights in some countries; and restrictions on the transfer of
    capital across borders. The success of our operations outside
    the United States will depend, in part, on our





    
    11



Table of Contents





    ability to acquire or form and maintain alliances with local
    companies and make necessary infrastructure enhancements to,
    among other things, our production facilities and distribution
    networks.


 



    Reductions
    in customers’ research budgets or government funding may
    adversely affect our BD Biosciences segment.


 


    Our BD Biosciences segment sells products to researchers at
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic
    institutions, government laboratories and private foundations.
    Research and development spending of our customers can fluctuate
    based on spending priorities and general economic conditions. A
    number of these customers are also dependent for their funding
    upon grants from U.S. government agencies, such as the
    U.S. National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) and
    agencies in other countries. The level of government funding of
    research and development is unpredictable. There have been
    instances where NIH grants have been frozen or otherwise
    unavailable for extended periods. The availability of
    governmental research funding may also continue to be adversely
    affected by the current economic downturn. Any reduction or
    delay in governmental funding could cause our customers to delay
    or forego purchases of our products.


 



    Our
    operations are dependent in part on patents and other
    intellectual property assets.


 


    Many of BD’s businesses rely on patent, trademark and other
    intellectual property assets. While we do not believe that the
    loss of any one patent or other intellectual property asset
    would materially adversely affect BD operations, these
    intellectual property assets, in the aggregate, are of material
    importance to our business. BD can lose the protection afforded
    by these intellectual property assets through patent
    expirations, legal challenges or governmental action. Patents
    attained by competitors, particularly as patents on our products
    expire, may also adversely affect our competitive position. The
    loss of a significant portion of our portfolio of intellectual
    property assets may have an adverse effect on our earnings,
    financial condition or cash flows. In addition, competitors may
    claim that BD products infringe upon their intellectual
    property. Resolving any intellectual property claim can be
    costly and time-consuming.


 



    Natural
    disasters, war and other events could adversely affect BD’s
    future revenues and operating income.


 


    Natural disasters (including pandemics), war, terrorism, labor
    disruptions and international conflicts, and actions taken by
    the United States and other governments in response to such
    events, could cause significant economic disruption and
    political and social instability in the United States and
    in areas outside of the United States in which we operate.
    These events could result in decreased demand for our products,
    adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution
    capabilities, or increase the costs for or cause interruptions
    in the supply of materials from our suppliers.


 



    We need
    to attract and retain key employees to be competitive.


 


    Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to
    attract and retain executives and other key employees, including
    people in technical, marketing, sales and research positions.
    Competition for experienced employees, particularly for persons
    with specialized skills, can be intense. BD’s ability to
    recruit such talent will depend on a number of factors,
    including compensation and benefits, work location and work
    environment. If we cannot effectively recruit and retain
    qualified executives and employees, our business could be
    adversely affected.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B