Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Distribution


     BD’s products and services are marketed in the U.S. and internationally through independent sales representatives and independent distribution channels, and directly to end-users. Sales to
a single U.S. distributor that supplies products from the BD Medical and BD Diagnostics segments to many end-users accounted for approximately 11% of total BD revenues in fiscal 2006. However, the end-users of BD’s products have access to them
through other distributors, and, as a result, BD believes that sales to this distributor would be replaced largely, if not entirely, by other sales if BD no longer sold products to this distributor. Order backlog is not material to BD’s business
inasmuch as orders for BD products generally are received and filled on a current basis, except for items temporarily out of stock. BD’s worldwide sales are not generally seasonal, with the exception of certain medical devices in the BD Medical
segment and respiratory and flu diagnostic products in the BD Diagnostics segment that relate to seasonal diseases such as influenza. 

Raw Materials

     BD purchases many different types of raw materials, including plastics, glass, metals, textiles, paper products, agricultural products, electronic and mechanical sub-assemblies and various
biological, chemical and petrochemical products. While all but a few of BD’s principal raw materials are available from multiple sources, for various reasons (e.g., quality assurance and cost effectiveness), BD elects to purchase certain raw
materials from sole suppliers. However, certain raw materials (primarily related to the BD Biosciences segment) are not available from multiple sources. In other cases where there are regulatory requirements relating to qualification of suppliers,
BD

2









may not be able to establish additional or replacement sources on a timely basis. While BD works closely with its suppliers to ensure continuity of supply, the termination, reduction or interruption in supply of these
sole-sourced raw materials could impact our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products. 

Research and Development


     BD conducts its research and development activities at its operating units and at BD Technologies in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. Substantially all of BD’s research and
development activities are conducted in the U.S. BD also collaborates with certain universities, medical centers and other entities on research and development programs. BD also retains individual consultants to support its efforts in specialized
fields. BD spent approximately $360 million, $272 million and $236 million on research and development during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Fiscal year 2006 spending included an in-process research
and development charge of $53 million related to the acquisition of GeneOhm. 

Intellectual Property and Licenses

     BD owns significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries. BD is
also licensed under domestic and foreign patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to
BD’s business. BD believes, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to BD’s business as a whole. 

Competition

     BD operates in the increasingly complex and challenging medical technology marketplace whose dynamics are changing. Technological advances and scientific discoveries have accelerated the pace
of change in medical technology, and regulation of increasingly more sophisticated and complex medical products is increasing. Companies of varying sizes compete in the global medical technology field. Some are more specialized than BD with respect
to particular markets, and some have greater financial resources than BD. New companies have entered the field, particularly in the areas of safety-engineered devices and in life sciences, and established companies have diversified their business
activities into the medical technology area. Other firms engaged in the distribution of medical technology products have become manufacturers of medical devices and instruments as well. Acquisitions and collaborations by and among other companies
seeking a competitive advantage also affect the competitive environment. 

     BD competes in this evolving marketplace on the basis of many factors, including price, quality, innovation, service, reputation, distribution and promotion. The impact of these factors on
BD’s competitive position varies among BD’s various product offerings. In order to implement one of its core strategies—to increase revenue growth by focusing on products that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers
and researchers—and maintain an advantage in the competitive environment in which it operates, BD continues to make investments in research and development, quality management, quality improvement, product innovation and productivity
improvement. 

Third-Party Reimbursement


     Healthcare providers and/or facilities are generally reimbursed for their services through numerous payment systems designed by governmental agencies (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S.,
the National Health Service in the U.K., the Joint Federal Committee in Germany, the Commission d’Evaluation des Produits et prestations in France, and the Ministry for Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan),  private insurance companies, and managed care programs. The manner and level of reimbursement in any given case typically depends on the procedure(s)
performed, the final patient diagnosis, the device(s) and/or drug(s) utilized, or a combination of these factors, and coverage and payment levels are determined at the payer’s discretion. The coverage policies and reimbursement levels of
third-party payers may impact the decisions of healthcare providers and facilities regarding which medical products they purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for those products. Thus, changes in reimbursement level or method may either
positively or negatively impact sales of BD products. While BD is actively engaged in promoting the value of its products for payers and patients and it employs various efforts and resources to positively impact coverage, coding and payment
processes in this regard, it has no direct control over payer decision-making with respect to coverage and adequate payment level for BD products. Additionally, we expect many payers to continue to explore cost-containment strategies that could
potentially impact coverage and/or payment levels for current or future BD products. 

3









     As BD’s product offerings are diverse across many healthcare settings, they are affected to varying degrees by the many payment systems. Therefore, BD does not believe that significant
changes to any one of these systems, while potentially impacting individual product lines or classes, would have a material adverse effect on BD.

Regulation

     BD’s medical technology products and operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and various other federal and state agencies, as well
as by foreign governmental agencies. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and distribution, and market surveillance of BD’s medical products. The scope
of the activities of these agencies, particularly in the Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific regions in which BD operates, has been increasing. 

     Prior to marketing or selling most of its products, BD must secure approval from the FDA and counterpart non-U.S. regulatory agencies. Following the introduction of a product, these agencies
engage in periodic reviews of BD’s manufacturing processes and product performance. These regulatory controls can affect the time and cost associated with the development, introduction and continued availability of new products. Where possible,
BD anticipates these factors in its product development and planning processes. 

     These agencies possess the authority to take various administrative and legal actions against BD, such as product recalls, product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions. BD also
undertakes voluntary compliance actions such as voluntary recalls.

     In November 2006, we received a warning letter from the FDA with respect to our facility in San Lorenzo, Puerto Rico, at which we manufacture certain blood collection products. The warning
letter makes certain observations regarding our compliance with the Current Good Manufacturing Practice requirements of the FDA’s Quality System regulation. We are preparing a response plan for submission to the FDA. 

     BD believes it is in compliance in all material respects with the regulations promulgated by such agencies, and that such compliance has not had, and, BD believes, should not have, a material
adverse effect on BD. BD also believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Such compliance has not had, and, BD believes, should not have, a material adverse effect on BD. See Item
3. Legal Proceedings. 

Employees

     As of September 30, 2006, BD had 26,990 employees, of whom 12,288 were employed in the United States (including Puerto Rico). BD believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.


Other Matters


     Becton Dickinson France, S.A. (“BD-France”), a subsidiary of BD, was listed among approximately 2,200 other companies in an October 27,
2005 report of the Independent Inquiry Committee (“IIC”) of the United Nations (“UN”) as having been involved in humanitarian contracts in which unauthorized payments were suspected of having been made to the Iraqi Government in
connection with the UN’s Oil-for-Food Programme (the “Programme”). In connection with the IIC’s report, Becton Dickinson AG, a Swiss subsidiary of BD, received a letter of inquiry from the Vendor Review Committee (“VRC”) of the United Nations
Procurement Service dated November 22, 2005. The letter of inquiry said that the VRC is reviewing Becton Dickinson AG’s registration status in light of BD-France being listed in the IIC’s report and asked us for any information we might
provide relating to the findings of the report. BD conducted an internal review and found no evidence that BD or any BD employee made, authorized, or approved improper payments to the Iraqi Government in connection with the Programme. The representative utilized by BD in Iraq also unequivocally denied having made any such payments, and BD was unable to find any evidence of such payments being made by this representative.  BD has also reported the
results of its internal review to the VRC. 

Available Information

     BD maintains a website at www.bd.com. BD makes available its Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and its Current Reports on Form 8-K (and amendments to those reports) as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange

4









Commission (“SEC”). These filings may be found at www.bd.com/investors. Printed copies of the foregoing documents may also be
obtained, without charge, by contacting: Investor Relations, Becton, Dickinson and Company, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, phone: 1-800-284-6845. 

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995—“SAFE HARBOR” FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

     The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of BD. BD and its representatives may from time to time make certain
forward-looking statements in publicly released materials, both written and oral, including statements contained in this report and filings with the SEC and in our other reports to shareholders. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the
use of words like "plan," "expect," “believe,” “intend,” "will," "anticipate," "estimate" and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among other things, discussions of future operations and financial performance, as
well as our strategy for growth, product development, regulatory approvals, market position and expenditures.  All statements that address operating performance or events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future –
including statements relating to volume growth, sales and earnings per share growth and statements expressing views about future operating results – are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. 

     Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations of future events. The forward-looking statements are and will be based on management's then-current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating
performance, and speak only as of their dates. Investors should realize that if underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from our expectations and projections.
Investors are therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Furthermore, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events and
developments or otherwise. 

     The following are some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements: 


Regional, national and foreign economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and the potential effect of
such fluctuations on revenues, expenses and resulting margins.

We operate in a highly competitive environment. New product introductions by our current or future competitors could adversely affect our ability to compete in the global
market. For example, new forms of inhaled or other methods of insulin delivery, such as the new inhaled form of insulin approved by the FDA and European authorities, could adversely
impact sales of our insulin injection devices. Patents attained by competitors, particularly as patents on our products expire, may also adversely impact our competitive position.

Changes in domestic and foreign healthcare industry practices and regulations resulting in increased pricing pressures, including the continued consolidation among
healthcare providers; trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment; and government laws and regulations relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement and pricing
generally.

The effects, if any, of governmental and media activities relating to U.S. Congressional hearings regarding the business practices of group purchasing organizations, which
negotiate product prices on behalf of their member hospitals with BD and other suppliers.

Fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and the ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships (particularly with respect to
sole-source suppliers) and the potential adverse effects of any disruption in the availability of such raw materials.

Our ability to obtain the anticipated benefits of any restructuring programs that we may undertake.

Adoption of or changes in government laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including those relating to trade, monetary and fiscal policies,
taxation, environmental matters, sales


5









practices, price controls, licensing and regulatory approval of new products, or changes in enforcement practices with respect to any such laws and regulations.



Fluctuations in U.S. and international governmental funding and policies for life science research.

Difficulties inherent in product development, including the potential inability to successfully continue technological innovation, complete clinical trials, obtain
regulatory approvals in the United States and abroad, or gain and maintain market approval of products, as well as the possibility of encountering infringement claims by competitors
with respect to patent or other intellectual property rights, all of which can preclude or delay commercialization of a product.

Pending and potential litigation or other proceedings adverse to BD, including antitrust claims, product liability claims, and patent infringement claims, as well as other
risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in our SEC filings.

The effects, if any, of adverse media exposure or other publicity regarding BD’s business or operations.

Our ability to achieve earnings forecasts, which are generated based on projected volumes and sales of many product types, some of which are more profitable than others.
There can be no assurance that we will achieve the projected level or mix of product sales.

The effect of market fluctuations on the value of assets in BD’s pension plans and the possibility that BD may need to make additional contributions to the plans as a
result of any decline in the value of such assets.

Our ability to effect infrastructure enhancements and incorporate new systems technologies into our operations.

Product efficacy or safety concerns resulting in product recalls, regulatory action on the part of the FDA (or foreign counterparts) or declining sales.

Economic and political conditions in international markets, including civil unrest, governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across
borders.

The effects of natural disasters, including hurricanes or pandemic diseases, on our ability to manufacture our products, particularly where production of a product line is
concentrated in one or more plants, or on our ability to source components from suppliers that are needed for such manufacturing.

Our ability to penetrate developing and emerging markets, which also depends on economic and political conditions, and how well we are able to acquire or form strategic
business alliances with local companies and make necessary infrastructure enhancements to production facilities, distribution networks, sales equipment and technology.

The impact of business combinations, including acquisitions and divestitures, both internally for BD and externally in the healthcare industry.

Issuance of new or revised accounting standards by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC.


     The foregoing list sets forth many, but not all, of the factors that could impact our ability to achieve results described in any forward-looking statements. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict
or identify all such factors and should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.

     An investment in BD involves a variety of risks and uncertainties. The following describes some of the significant risks that could impact BD’s business, financial condition or operating
results.

6









BD’s future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, and there can be no assurance that such products will be developed. 

     A significant element of our strategy is to increase revenue growth by focusing on products that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers.  The development of
these products requires significant research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals.  The results of our product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including BD’s ability to innovate, develop and
manufacture new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and reimbursement in the United States and abroad, or gain and maintain market approval of our products. In addition, patents attained by others can preclude or delay
our commercialization of a product.  There can be no assurance that any products now in development or that we may seek to develop in the future will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval, or gain market acceptance.


The medical device industry is very competitive.

     The medical device industry is subject to rapid technological changes, and we face significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold. We face
this competition from a wide range of companies. These include large medical device companies, some of which may have greater financial and marketing resources than us. We also face competition from firms that are more specialized than us with
respect to particular markets.  Non-medical device companies, including pharmaceutical companies, also offer alternative therapies for disease states that may be delivered without a medical device.  See “Competition” under Item 1. Business.  In
addition, some competitors have established manufacturing sites or have contracted with suppliers located in China and other low-cost manufacturing locations as a means to lower their costs.  New entrants may also appear, particularly in
these low-cost countries.

      The development of new or improved products, processes or technologies by other companies may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive and may materially adversely
affect our earnings, financial condition or cash flows. 

A reduction or interruption in the supply of certain raw materials would adversely affect BD’s manufacturing operations and related product sales. 

     BD purchases many different types of raw materials.  We have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of these materials. However, certain raw materials (primarily related to the BD Biosciences segment) are not
available from multiple sources. In addition, for quality assurance, cost-effectiveness and other reasons, BD elects to purchase certain raw materials from sole suppliers.
While we work with suppliers to ensure continuity of supply, no assurance can be given that these efforts will be successful.  In addition, where there are regulatory requirements relating to the qualification of suppliers, we may not be able to establish
additional or replacement sources on a timely basis. The termination, reduction or interruption in supply of these sole-sourced raw materials could impact our ability to
manufacture and sell certain of our products and have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition or cash flows.

Interruption of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect BD’s future revenues and operating income.

     We have manufacturing sites all over the world.  In addition, in some instances, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. As a result, natural disasters (including
pandemic disease), political change, or damage to one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial
condition or cash flows. 

BD is subject to a number of pending lawsuits.

     BD is a defendant in a number of pending lawsuits, including purported class action lawsuits for alleged antitrust violations and product liability, and could be subject to additional lawsuits in the future. A more detailed description of
these lawsuits is contained in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an
unfavorable outcome of the litigation to which we are a party. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, BD establishes accruals to the extent probable future losses from these actions are estimable. In view of the
uncertainties discussed above, we

7









could incur charges in excess of any currently established accruals and, to the extent available, excess liability insurance. Any such future charges, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect
on BD’s results of operations and cash flows in the period or periods in which they are recorded or paid. 

Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect BD’s future revenues and operating income.

     The medical device industry has experienced a significant amount of consolidation.  As a result of this consolidation, competition to provide goods and services to customers has increased. In
addition, group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) and integrated health delivery networks (“IDNs”) have served to concentrate purchasing decisions for some customers, which has placed pricing pressure on medical device suppliers. Further consolidation
in the industry could exert additional pressure on the prices of our products and adversely affect BD’s earnings, financial condition or cash flows.

Changes in reimbursement practices of third-party payers could affect the demand for our products and the prices at which they are sold.


     Our sales depend, in part, on the extent to which healthcare providers and facilities are reimbursed by government authorities, private insurers and other third-party payers for the costs of
our products. The coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers may affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for these products. Legislative or administrative reforms to reimbursement systems
in the U.S. or abroad in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using BD medical devices, or that denies coverage for those products, may materially adversely affect our earnings, financial condition or cash flows. See
“Third-Party Reimbursement” under Item 1. Business. 

Product defects could adversely affect the results of our operations. 

     The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks
relating to the use of the product can lead to injury or other adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other
countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. Any recall could result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity that could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use
of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals.  Any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse
effect on our earnings, financial condition or cash flows.

BD is subject to extensive regulation.

     BD is subject to extensive regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and
governing bodies. Most of BD’s products must receive clearance or approval from the FDA or counterpart non-U.S. regulatory agencies before they can be marketed or sold. The process for obtaining marketing approval or clearance may take a
significant period of time and require the expenditure of substantial resources. The process may also require changes to our products or result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. 

     Following the introduction of a product, these agencies also periodically review our manufacturing processes and product performance. Our failure to comply with the applicable good
manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting, clinical trial and other requirements of these agencies could delay the production or marketing of our products and result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, or seizures or
recalls of products, any of which could materially adversely affect our earnings, financial condition or cash flows.

We cannot guarantee that any of BD’s strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances will be successful.

     While our strategy to increase revenue growth is driven primarily by internal product development, we will seek to supplement our growth through strategic acquisitions, investments and
alliances.  Such transactions are inherently risky. The success of any acquisition, investment or alliance may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity or to
successfully integrate it into our existing business. There can be no assurance that any past or future transaction will be successful or that the transaction will not materially adversely affect our earnings, financial condition or cash
flows.

8









We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk.

     Over half of our fiscal year 2006 revenues were derived from international operations. Our revenues outside the U.S. are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A discussion of the
financial impact of exchange rate fluctuations and the ways and extent to which we attempt to mitigate such impact is contained under the heading “Financial Instrument Market Risk” under “Financial Review” contained
in Exhibit 13, which is incorporated herein by reference. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 

The international operations of BD’s business may subject BD to certain business risks. 

     BD operations outside the U.S. subject BD to certain risks, including the effects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange (as discussed above), changes in foreign regulatory requirements,
potential political instability, trade barriers, weakening of the protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, and restrictions on the transfer of capital across borders. The success of our operations outside the U.S. will depend,
in part, on our ability to acquire or form alliances with local companies and make necessary infrastructure enhancements to, among other things, our production facilities and distribution networks. 

Reductions in customers’ research budgets or government funding may adversely affect our BD Biosciences segment. 

     Our BD Biosciences segment sells products to researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories and private foundations. Research and
development spending of our customers can fluctuate based on spending priorities and general economic conditions. A number of these customers are also dependent upon grants from U.S. government agencies, such as the U.S. National Institutes of
Health (“NIH”), and agencies in other countries for their funding. The level of government funding of research and development is unpredictable. In addition, there have been instances where NIH grants have been frozen or otherwise unavailable for
extended periods. Any reduction or delay in governmental funding could cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products.

Our operations are dependent in part on patents and other intellectual property rights. 

     Many of BD’s businesses rely on patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights. While we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other intellectual property asset would
materially affect BD operations, these intellectual property assets, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business.  BD can lose the protection afforded by these intellectual property assets through patent expirations, legal
challenges or governmental action. Patents attained by competitors, particularly as patents on our products expire, may also adversely affect our competitive position. The loss of a significant portion of our portfolio of intellectual property assets may have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition or cash flows.

Natural disasters, war or terrorism could adversely affect BD’s future revenues and operating income. 

     Natural disasters, war, terrorism and international conflicts, and actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events, could cause significant economic
disruption and political and social instability in the U.S. and in areas outside of the U.S. in which we operate. These events could result in decreased demand for our products, adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution capabilities or our
ability to source materials from our suppliers, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition or cash flows. 

Item 1B