Item 1A. Risk
Factors. 

Distribution

      BD’s products and
services are marketed in the U.S. and internationally through independent sales
representatives and independent distribution channels, and directly to end-users.
Sales to a single U.S. distributor that supplies products from the BD Medical
and BD Diagnostics segments to many end-users accounted for approximately 9%
of total BD revenues in fiscal 2007. However, the end-users of BD’s products have access to them through other distributors,
and, as a result, BD believes that sales to this distributor would be replaced largely, if not entirely, by other sales if BD no longer sold products to this distributor. Order backlog is not material to BD’s business inasmuch as orders for BD
products generally are received and filled on a current basis, except for items temporarily out of stock. BD’s worldwide sales are not generally seasonal, with the exception of certain medical devices in the BD Medical segment and respiratory
and flu diagnostic products in the BD Diagnostics segment that relate to seasonal diseases such as influenza.  

Raw Materials

      BD purchases many different types of raw materials, including plastics, glass, metals, textiles, paper products, agricultural products, electronic and mechanical sub-assemblies and various biological, chemical and
petrochemical products.  Certain raw materials (primarily related to the BD Biosciences segment) are not available from multiple sources. In the case of certain principal raw materials that are available from multiple sources, for various reasons
(including quality assurance and cost effectiveness), BD elects to purchase these raw materials from sole suppliers. In other cases where there are regulatory requirements relating to qualification of suppliers, BD may not be able to establish
additional or replacement sources on a timely basis. While BD works closely with its suppliers to ensure continuity of supply, the termination, reduction or interruption in supply of these sole-sourced raw materials could impact our ability to
manufacture and sell certain of our products.

Research and Development

      BD conducts its research
and development activities at its operating units and at BD Technologies in Research
Triangle Park, North Carolina. Substantially all of BD’s research and development
activities are conducted  in the U.S. BD also collaborates with certain universities,
medical centers and other entities on research and development programs. BD also
retains individual consultants to support its efforts in specialized fields.
BD spent approximately $360
million, $302 million and $268 million on research and development during
the fiscal years ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition,
BD incurred acquired in-process research and development charges of $122
million related to the acquisitions of TriPath and Plasso in fiscal year 2007,
and $53
million related to the acquisition of GeneOhm in fiscal year 2006.

2 







Intellectual Property and Licenses

      BD owns significant
intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade
secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries.
BD is also licensed under domestic  and foreign patents, patent applications,
technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks owned by others.
In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material
importance to BD’s business. BD
believes, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual
property asset or license is material in relation to BD’s business as a
whole, or any business segment.

Competition

      BD operates in the increasingly complex and challenging medical technology marketplace whose dynamics are changing. Technological advances and scientific discoveries have accelerated the pace of change in medical
technology, and regulation of increasingly more sophisticated and complex medical products is increasing. Companies of varying sizes compete in the global medical technology field. Some are more specialized than BD with respect to particular
markets, and some have greater financial resources than BD. New companies have entered the field, particularly in the areas of safety-engineered devices and in life sciences, and established companies have diversified their business activities into
the medical technology area. Other firms engaged in the distribution of medical technology products have become manufacturers of medical devices and instruments as well. Acquisitions and collaborations by and among other companies seeking a
competitive advantage also affect the competitive environment.

      BD competes in this evolving marketplace on the basis of many factors, including price, quality, innovation, service, reputation, distribution and promotion. The impact of these factors on BD’s competitive position
varies among BD’s various product offerings. In order to implement one of its core strategies—to increase revenue growth by focusing on products that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers—and
maintain an advantage in the competitive environment in which it operates, BD continues to make investments in research and development, quality management, quality improvement, product innovation and productivity improvement.

Third-Party Reimbursement

     Healthcare providers and/or facilities are generally reimbursed for their services through numerous payment systems designed by governmental agencies (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid in the
U.S., the National Health Service in the U.K., the Joint Federal Committee in Germany, the Commission d’Evaluation des Produits et prestations in France, and the Ministry for Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan), private insurance companies, and
managed care programs. The manner and level of reimbursement in any given case typically depends on the procedure(s) performed, the final patient diagnosis, the device(s) and/or drug(s) utilized, or a combination of these factors, and coverage and
payment levels are determined at the payer’s discretion. The coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers may impact the decisions of healthcare providers and facilities regarding which medical products they purchase and the
prices they are willing to pay for those products. Thus, changes in reimbursement level or method may either positively or negatively impact sales of BD products. While BD is actively engaged in promoting the value of its products for payers and
patients and it employs various efforts and resources to positively impact coverage, coding and payment processes in this regard, it has no direct control over payer decision-making with respect to coverage and adequate payment level for BD
products. Additionally, we expect many payers to continue to explore cost-containment strategies (e.g., competitive bidding for clinical laboratory services within the Medicare program, so-called “pay-for-performance” programs implemented
by various public and private payers, etc.) that could potentially impact coverage and/or payment levels for current or future BD products.

      As BD’s product offerings are diverse across many healthcare settings, they are affected to varying degrees by the many payment systems. Therefore, while individual countries, product lines or product classes may be
impacted, BD does not believe that significant changes to any one of these systems would have a material adverse effect on BD. 

Regulation

      BD’s medical technology products and operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and various other federal and state agencies, as well as by foreign governmental
agencies. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and distribution, and market surveillance of BD’s medical products. The scope of the activities of these
agencies, particularly in the Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific regions in which BD operates, has been increasing.

      Prior to marketing or selling most of its products, BD must secure approval from the FDA and counterpart non-U.S. regulatory agencies. Following the introduction of a product, these agencies engage in periodic reviews of
BD’s manufacturing processes and product performance. These regulatory controls can affect the time and cost associated with the development, introduction and

3 







continued availability of new products. Where possible, BD anticipates these factors in its product development and planning processes.
     
 These agencies possess the authority to take various administrative and legal actions against BD, such as product recalls, product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions. BD also undertakes voluntary compliance
actions such as voluntary recalls. 

     In November 2006, we
received a warning letter from the FDA with respect to our facility in San Lorenzo,
Puerto Rico, at which we manufacture certain blood collection products. The warning
 letter makes certain observations regarding our compliance with the Current
Good Manufacturing Practices requirements of the FDA’s Quality System regulation.
In response to the warning letter, BD developed and implemented a comprehensive
 corrective and preventive action plan that was completed in fiscal year 2007.
The FDA recently re-inspected the San Lorenzo facility and found all warning
letter commitments met and satisfactory. We are awaiting a close-out letter.

      BD believes it is in compliance in all material respects with the regulations promulgated by such agencies, and that such compliance has not had, and, BD believes, should not have, a material adverse effect on BD. BD also
believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Such compliance has not had, and, BD believes, should not have, a material adverse effect on BD. See Item 3. Legal
Proceedings.

Employees

      As of September 30, 2007, BD had 28,018 employees, of whom 12,803 were employed in the United States (including Puerto Rico). BD believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.

Other Matters

      Becton Dickinson France, S.A. (“BD-France”), a subsidiary of BD, was listed among approximately 2,200 other companies in an October 27, 2005 report of the Independent Inquiry Committee (“IIC”) of the
United Nations (“UN”) as having been involved in humanitarian contracts in which unauthorized payments were suspected of having been made to the Iraqi Government in connection with the UN’s Oil-for-Food Programme (the
“Programme”). In connection with the IIC’s report, Becton Dickinson AG, a Swiss subsidiary of BD, received a letter of inquiry from the Vendor Review Committee (“VRC”) of the United Nations Procurement Service dated November
22, 2005. The letter of inquiry said that the VRC is reviewing Becton Dickinson AG’s registration status in light of BD-France being listed in the IIC’s report and asked us for any information we might provide relating to the findings of
the report. BD conducted an internal review and found no evidence that BD or any BD employee made, authorized, or approved improper payments to the Iraqi Government in connection with the Programme. The representative utilized by BD in Iraq also
unequivocally denied having made any such payments, and BD was unable to find any evidence of such payments being made by this representative. BD has also reported the results of its internal review to the VRC. In May 2007, the French Judicial
Police conducted searches of BD-France’s offices in France with respect to the matters that were the subject of the 2005 IIC report. We were informed that it is one of a number of companies named in the IIC report that is being investigated by
the French Judicial Police. We are cooperating fully with the investigation. 

Available Information

      BD maintains a website at www.bd.com. BD makes available its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, its
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and its Current Reports on Form 8-K (and amendments to those reports) as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”). These filings may be found at www.bd.com/investors. Printed copies of the foregoing documents may also be obtained, without charge, by contacting:
Investor Relations, Becton, Dickinson and Company, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, phone: 1-800-284-6845.

Forward-Looking Statements  

     BD and its representatives
may from time-to-time make certain forward-looking statements in publicly released
materials, both written and oral, including statements contained in this report
and filings with the SEC and in our other reports to shareholders. Additional
information regarding our forward-looking statements is contained in the “Financial
Review” contained in Exhibit 13. 

4 






Item 1A. Risk Factors.

      An investment in BD involves a variety of risks and uncertainties. The following describes some of the significant risks that could adversely affect BD’s business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows.


BD’s future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, and there can be no assurance that such products will be developed.  

      A significant element of our strategy is to increase revenue growth by focusing on products that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers. The development of these products requires
significant research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. The results of our product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including BD’s ability to innovate, develop and manufacture new products,
complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and reimbursement in the United States and abroad, or gain and maintain market approval of our products. In addition, patents attained by others can preclude or delay our commercialization of a
product. There can be no assurance that any products now in development or that we may seek to develop in the future will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval, or gain market acceptance.

The medical device industry is very competitive.

      The medical device industry is subject to rapid technological changes, and we face significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold. We face this competition from a wide
range of companies. These include large medical device companies, some of which may have greater financial and marketing resources than us. We also face competition from firms that are more specialized than us with respect to particular markets.
Non-medical device companies, including pharmaceutical companies, also offer alternative therapies for disease states that may be delivered without a medical device. See “Competition” under Item 1. Business. The development of new or
improved products, processes or technologies by other companies may render our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive.  In addition, some competitors have established manufacturing sites or have contracted with suppliers located
in China and other low-cost manufacturing locations as a means to lower their costs. New entrants may also appear, particularly from these low-cost countries.
Inflation and fluctuations in the
      cost of raw materials could adversely affect the results of our operations.
     It is
    possible that general inflation rates will rise in 2008 and beyond, and could
    have a greater impact on worldwide economies and, consequently, on BD. BD
    purchases supplies of resins, which are oil-based components used in the
    manufacture of certain products. Any significant increases in resin purchase
    costs could impact future operating results. 
A reduction or interruption in the
      supply of certain raw materials would adversely affect BD’s manufacturing
      operations and related product sales.  

      BD purchases many different types of raw materials. We have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of these materials. However, certain raw materials (primarily related to the BD Biosciences segment) are not
available from multiple sources. In addition, for quality assurance, cost-effectiveness and other reasons, BD elects to purchase certain raw materials from sole suppliers. While we work with suppliers to ensure continuity of supply, no assurance can
be given that these efforts will be successful. In addition, where there are regulatory requirements relating to the qualification of suppliers, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement

5







sources on a timely basis. The termination, reduction or interruption in supply of these sole-sourced raw materials could impact our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products. 

Interruption of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect BD’s future revenues and operating income. 

      We have manufacturing sites all over the world. In addition, in some instances, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. As a result, natural disasters (including
pandemic disease), political change, or damage to one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products.

BD is subject to a number of pending lawsuits.

      BD is a defendant in a number of pending lawsuits, including purported class action lawsuits for alleged antitrust violations and product liability, and could be subject to additional lawsuits in the future. A more
detailed description of these lawsuits is contained in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome
of the litigation to which we are a party. In view of these uncertainties, we could incur charges in excess of any currently established accruals and, to the extent available, excess liability insurance. Any such future charges, individually or in
the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on BD’s results of operations and cash flows.

Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect BD’s future revenues and operating income. 

      The medical device industry has experienced a significant amount of consolidation. As a result of this consolidation, competition to provide goods and services to customers has increased. In addition, group purchasing
organizations (“GPOs”) and integrated health delivery networks (“IDNs”) have served to concentrate purchasing decisions for some customers, which has placed pricing pressure on medical device suppliers. Further consolidation in
the industry could exert additional pressure on the prices of our products. 

Changes in reimbursement practices of third-party payers could affect the demand for our products and the prices at which they are sold. 

      Our sales depend, in part, on the extent to which healthcare providers and facilities are reimbursed by government authorities, private insurers and other third-party payers for the costs of our products. The coverage
policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers may affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for these products. Legislative or administrative reforms to reimbursement systems in the U.S. or abroad in a
manner could significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using BD medical devices, or result in denial of reimbursement for those products. See “Third-Party Reimbursement” under Item 1. Business. 


Product defects could adversely affect the results of our operations.  

      The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of the
product can lead to injury or other adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries), and could result, in
certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. Any recall could result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity that could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result
in product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals.

BD is subject to extensive regulation.

      BD is subject to extensive regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Most of BD’s
products must receive clearance or approval from the FDA or counterpart non-U.S. regulatory agencies before they can be marketed or sold. The process for obtaining marketing approval or clearance may take a significant period of time and require the
expenditure of substantial resources. The process may also require changes to our products or result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products.
     
 Following the introduction of a product, these agencies also periodically review our manufacturing processes and product performance. Our failure to comply with the applicable good manufacturing practices, adverse event
reporting, clinical trial and other requirements of these agencies could delay the production or marketing of our products and result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, or seizures or recalls of products. 

6







We cannot guarantee that any of BD’s strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances will be successful. 

      While our strategy to increase revenue growth is driven primarily by internal product development, we will seek to supplement our growth through strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Such transactions are
inherently risky. The success of any acquisition, investment or alliance may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity or to successfully integrate it into our existing
business. There can be no assurance that any past or future transaction will be successful. 

We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk.

      Over half of our fiscal year 2007 revenues were derived from international operations. Our revenues outside the U.S. are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A discussion of the financial impact of
exchange rate fluctuations and the ways and extent to which we attempt to mitigate such impact is contained under the heading “Financial Instrument Market Risk” under “Financial Review” contained in Exhibit 13, which is
incorporated herein by reference. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

The international operations of BD’s business may subject BD to certain business risks.  

      BD operations outside the U.S. subject BD to certain risks, including the effects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange (as discussed above), changes in foreign regulatory requirements, potential political
instability, trade barriers, weakening of the protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, and restrictions on the transfer of capital across borders. The success of our operations outside the U.S. will depend, in part, on our
ability to acquire or form alliances with local companies and make necessary infrastructure enhancements to, among other things, our production facilities and distribution networks.

Reductions in customers’ research budgets or government funding may adversely affect our BD Biosciences segment.  

      Our BD Biosciences segment sells products to researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories and private foundations. Research and development spending of our
customers can fluctuate based on spending priorities and general economic conditions. A number of these customers are also dependent upon grants from U.S. government agencies, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (“NIH”), and
agencies in other countries for their funding. The level of government funding of research and development is unpredictable. In addition, there have been instances where NIH grants have been frozen or otherwise unavailable for extended periods. Any
reduction or delay in governmental funding could cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products. 

Our operations are dependent in part on patents and other intellectual property rights.  

      Many of BD’s businesses rely on patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights. While we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other intellectual property asset would materially affect BD
operations, these intellectual property assets, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business. BD can lose the protection afforded by these intellectual property assets through patent expirations, legal challenges or governmental
action. Patents attained by competitors, particularly as patents on our products expire, may also adversely affect our competitive position. The loss of a significant portion of our portfolio of intellectual property assets may have a material
adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition or cash flows. 

Natural disasters, war or terrorism could adversely affect BD’s future revenues and operating income.  

      Natural disasters, war, terrorism and international conflicts, and actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events, could cause significant economic disruption and political and social
instability in the U.S. and in areas outside of the U.S. in which we operate. These events could result in decreased demand for our products, adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution capabilities or our ability to source materials from
our suppliers.

Item 1B