Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Distribution

     BD’s products are marketed in the U.S. and internationally through independent distribution channels and directly to end-users by BD and independent sales representatives. Sales to a
single U.S. distributor that supplies products from the BD Medical and BD Diagnostics segments to many end-users accounted for approximately 9% of total BD revenues in fiscal 2008. However, the end-users of BD’s products have access to those
products through other distributors, and, as a result, BD believes that sales to this distributor would be replaced largely, if not entirely, by other sales if BD no longer sold products to this distributor. Order backlog is not material to
BD’s business inasmuch as orders for BD products generally are received and filled on a current basis, except for items temporarily out of stock. BD’s worldwide sales are not generally seasonal, with the exception of certain medical
devices in the BD Medical segment and respiratory and flu diagnostic products in the BD Diagnostics segment that relate to seasonal diseases such as influenza. 

Raw Materials

     BD purchases many different types of raw materials, including plastics, glass, metals, textiles, paper products, agricultural products, electronic and mechanical sub-assemblies and various
biological, chemical and petrochemical products. Certain raw materials (primarily related to the BD Biosciences segment) are not available from multiple sources. In the case of certain principal raw materials that are available from multiple
sources, for various reasons (including quality assurance and cost effectiveness), BD elects to purchase these raw materials from sole suppliers. In other cases where there are regulatory requirements relating to qualification of suppliers, BD may
not be able to establish additional or replacement sources on a timely basis. While BD works closely with its suppliers to ensure continuity of supply, the termination, reduction or interruption in supply of these sole-sourced raw materials could
impact our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products. 

Research and Development

     BD conducts its research and development activities at its operating units and at BD Technologies in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. Substantially all of BD’s research and
development activities are conducted in the U.S. BD also collaborates with certain universities, medical centers and other entities on research and development programs. BD also retains individual consultants to support its efforts in specialized
fields. BD

3









spent approximately $396 million, $360 million and $302 million on research and development during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, BD incurred acquired
in-process research and development charges of $122 million related to the acquisitions of TriPath and Plasso in fiscal year 2007, and $53 million related to the acquisition of GeneOhm in fiscal year 2006. 

Intellectual Property and Licenses

     BD owns significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries. BD is
also licensed under domestic and foreign patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to
BD’s business. BD believes, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to BD’s business as a whole, or any business segment. 

Competition

     BD operates in the increasingly complex and challenging medical technology marketplace whose dynamics are changing. Technological advances and scientific discoveries have accelerated the pace
of change in medical technology, and regulation of increasingly more sophisticated and complex medical products is increasing. Companies of varying sizes compete in the global medical technology field. Some are more specialized than BD with respect
to particular markets, and some have greater financial resources than BD. New companies have entered the field, particularly in the areas of safety-engineered devices and in life sciences, and established companies have diversified their business
activities into the medical technology area. Other firms engaged in the distribution of medical technology products have become manufacturers of medical devices and instruments as well. Acquisitions and collaborations by and among other companies
seeking a competitive advantage also affect the competitive environment. In addition, the entry into the market of manufacturers located in China and other low-cost manufacturing locations are creating increased pricing pressures, particularly in
developing markets. Some competitors have also established manufacturing sites or have contracted with suppliers located in these countries as a means to lower their costs.  New entrants may also appear, particularly from these low-cost countries.


     BD competes in this evolving marketplace on the basis of many factors, including price, quality, innovation, service, reputation, distribution and promotion. The impact of these factors on
BD’s competitive position varies among BD’s various product offerings. In order to implement one of its core strategies—to increase revenue growth by focusing on products that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers
and researchers—and maintain an advantage in the competitive environment in which it operates, BD continues to make investments in research and development, quality management, quality improvement, product innovation and productivity
improvement. 

Third-Party Reimbursement

     Healthcare providers and/or facilities are generally reimbursed for their services through numerous payment systems designed by governmental agencies (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S.,
the National Health Service in the U.K., the Joint Federal Committee in Germany, the Commission d’Evaluation des Produits et prestations in France, and the Ministry for Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan), private insurance companies, and
managed care organizations. The manner and level of reimbursement in any given case typically depends on the procedure(s) performed, the final patient diagnosis, the device(s) and/or drug(s) utilized, or a combination of these factors, and coverage
and payment levels are determined at the payer’s discretion. The coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers may impact the decisions of healthcare providers and facilities regarding which medical products they purchase and
the prices they are willing to pay for those products. Thus, changes in reimbursement level or method may either positively or negatively impact sales of BD products. While BD is actively engaged in promoting the value of its products for payers and
patients, and it employs various efforts and resources to positively impact coverage, coding and payment processes in this regard, it has no direct control over payer decision-making with respect to coverage and adequate payment level for BD
products. Additionally, we expect many payers to continue to explore cost-containment strategies (e.g., comparative effectiveness analyses, so-called “pay-for-performance” programs implemented by various public and private payers, etc.)
that could potentially impact coverage and/or payment levels for current or future BD products. 

4 









     As BD’s product offerings are diverse across many healthcare settings, they are affected to varying degrees by the many payment systems. Therefore, while individual countries, product
lines or product classes may be impacted, BD does not believe that significant changes to any one of these systems would have a material adverse effect on BD. 

Regulation

     BD’s medical technology products and operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and various other federal and state agencies, as well
as by foreign governmental agencies. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and distribution, and market surveillance of BD’s medical products. The scope
of the activities of these agencies, particularly in the Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific regions in which BD operates, has been increasing. 

     Prior to marketing or selling most of its products, BD must secure approval from the FDA and counterpart non-U.S. regulatory agencies. Following the introduction of a product, these agencies
engage in periodic reviews of BD’s manufacturing processes and product performance. These regulatory controls can affect the time and cost associated with the development, introduction and continued availability of new products. Where possible,
BD anticipates these factors in its product development and planning processes. 

     These agencies possess the authority to take various administrative and legal actions against BD, such as product recalls, product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions. BD also
undertakes voluntary compliance actions such as voluntary recalls. 

     In November 2006, we received a warning letter from the FDA resulting from an inspection of our facility in San Lorenzo, Puerto Rico, at which we manufacture certain blood collection products.
In response to the warning letter, BD developed and implemented a comprehensive corrective and preventive action plan that was reviewed by the FDA during a re-inspection of the San Lorenzo facility that was completed in fiscal year 2007. The FDA
found all warning letter commitments met and satisfactory and closed out the warning letter in fiscal year 2008. 

     BD believes it is in compliance in all material respects with the regulations promulgated by such agencies, and that such compliance has not had, and, BD believes, should not have, a material
adverse effect on BD. BD also believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. BD believes that our regulatory and environmental compliance has not had, and, will not have, a material
adverse effect on our operations or results. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 

Employees

     As of September 30, 2008, BD had 28,277 employees, of whom 12,649 were employed in the United States (including Puerto Rico). BD believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.


Other Matters

     Becton Dickinson France, S.A. (“BD-France”), a subsidiary of BD, was listed among approximately 2,200 other companies in an October 27, 2005 report of the Independent Inquiry
Committee (“IIC”) of the United Nations (“UN”) as having been involved in humanitarian contracts in which unauthorized payments were suspected of having been made to the Iraqi Government in connection with the UN’s
Oil-for-Food Programme (the “Programme”).  In connection with the IIC’s report, Becton Dickinson AG, a Swiss subsidiary of BD, received a letter of inquiry from the Vendor Review Committee (“VRC”) of the United Nations
Procurement Service dated November 22, 2005. The letter of inquiry said that the VRC is reviewing Becton Dickinson AG’s registration status in light of BD-France being listed in the IIC’s report and asked us for any information we might
provide relating to the findings of the report. BD conducted an internal review and found no evidence that BD or any BD employee made, authorized, or approved improper payments to the Iraqi Government in connection with the Programme.  The
representative utilized by BD in Iraq also unequivocally denied having made any such payments, and BD was unable to find any evidence of such payments being made by this representative. BD has also reported the results of its internal review to the
VRC. In May 2008, BD received a letter from the U.N. stating that Becton, Dickinson AG has been suspended from the U.N. Secretariat Procurement Division’s vendor roster for a minimum period of six months.  BD has sought review of the
suspension.  BD believes that the suspension has not had or will not have a material adverse effect on BD.

5 









     In May 2007, the French Judicial Police conducted searches of BD-France’s offices in France with respect to the matters that were the subject of the 2005 IIC report. We were informed that
it is one of a number of companies named in the IIC report that is being investigated by the French Judicial Police. We are cooperating fully with the investigation. 

Available Information

     BD maintains a website at www.bd.com. BD makes available its Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and its Current Reports on Form 8-K (and amendments to those reports) as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These filings may be found at www.bd.com/investors. Printed copies of the foregoing documents may also be obtained, without
charge, by contacting: Investor Relations, Becton, Dickinson and Company, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, phone: 1-800-284-6845. 

Forward-Looking Statements

     BD and its representatives may from time-to-time make certain forward-looking statements in publicly-released materials, both written and oral, including statements contained in this report and
filings with the SEC and in our other reports to shareholders. Additional information regarding our forward-looking statements is contained in the “Financial Review” contained in Exhibit 13. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.

     An investment in BD involves a variety of risks and uncertainties. The following describes some of the significant risks that could adversely affect BD’s business, financial condition,
operating results or cash flows.

Current economic conditions could adversely affect our operations. 

     Financial markets in the United States and abroad have experienced extreme disruption, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. While these conditions and the current
economic downturn have not impaired our ability to access credit markets or adversely affected our operations to date, there can be no assurance that these conditions will not adversely affect our business in the future, particularly if there is
further deterioration in the world financial markets and major economies.  The current conditions may also adversely affect the business of our customers and the amount spent on healthcare generally. This could result in a decrease in the demand for
our products and services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition.  In addition, these conditions may adversely affect our suppliers, such as resin suppliers that do substantial business with the
automotive industry, which could cause disruptions in our ability to produce our products. 

Inflation could adversely affect the results of our operations.

     Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflation in the cost of raw materials, components, freight and energy. In particular, BD purchases supplies of resins, which are
oil-based components used in the manufacture of certain products. Any significant increases in resin purchase costs could impact future operating results. Increases in the price of oil can also increase BD’s costs for packaging and
transportation. If we are unable to mitigate these cost increases, our profitability may be adversely affected. 

We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk.

     Over half of our fiscal year 2008 revenues were derived from international operations. Our revenues outside the U.S. may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates.  Recently, worldwide currencies have experienced extreme volatility. A discussion of the financial impact of exchange rate fluctuations and the ways and extent to which we attempt to mitigate such impact is contained under the heading
“Financial Instrument Market Risk” under “Financial Review” contained in Exhibit 13, which is incorporated herein by reference.  We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the degree to
which we can mitigate these risks. 

6 









BD’s future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, and there can be no assurance that such products will be developed. 

     A significant element of our strategy is to increase revenue growth by focusing on products that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers.  The development of
these products requires significant research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals.  The results of our product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including BD’s ability to innovate, develop and
manufacture new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and reimbursement in the United States and abroad, or gain and maintain market approval of our products. In addition, patents attained by others can preclude or delay
our commercialization of a product. There can be no assurance that any products now in development or that we may seek to develop in the future will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval, or gain market acceptance.


The medical device industry is very competitive.

     The medical device industry is subject to rapid technological changes, and we face significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold. We face
this competition from a wide range of companies. These include large medical device companies, some of which may have greater financial and marketing resources than us. We also face competition from firms that are more specialized than us with
respect to particular markets. Non-medical device companies, including pharmaceutical companies, also offer or are attempting to develop alternative therapies for disease states that may be delivered without a medical device. See
“Competition” under Item 1.  Business.  The development of new or improved products, processes or technologies by other companies (such as needle-free injection technology) may render our products or proposed products obsolete or less
competitive. In addition, the entry into the market of manufacturers located in China and other low-cost manufacturing locations are creating increased pricing pressures, particularly in developing markets. Some competitors have also established
manufacturing sites or have contracted with suppliers located in these countries as a means to lower their costs. New entrants may also appear, particularly from these low-cost countries. 

A reduction or interruption in the supply of certain raw materials and components would adversely affect BD’s manufacturing operations and related product sales. 

     BD purchases many different types of raw materials and components. We have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of these materials. However, certain raw materials (primarily related
to the BD Biosciences segment) and components are not available from multiple sources.  In addition, for quality assurance, cost-effectiveness and other reasons, BD elects to purchase certain raw materials and components from sole suppliers. The
supply of these materials can be disrupted for a number of reasons. While we work with suppliers to ensure continuity of supply, no assurance can be given that these efforts will be successful. In addition, where there are regulatory requirements
relating to the qualification of suppliers, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement sources on a timely basis. The termination, reduction or interruption in supply of these sole-sourced raw materials and components could impact our
ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products.

Interruption of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect BD’s future revenues and operating income. 

     We have manufacturing sites all over the world. In addition, in some instances, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. As a result,
weather, natural disasters (including pandemic disease), terrorism, political change, or damage to one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. 

BD is subject to a number of pending lawsuits.

     BD is a defendant in a number of pending lawsuits, including purported class action lawsuits for alleged antitrust violations and product liability, and could be subject to additional lawsuits
in the future. A more detailed description of these lawsuits is contained in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from
an unfavorable

7 









outcome of the litigation to which we are a party. In view of these uncertainties, we could incur charges in excess of any currently established accruals and, to the extent available, excess liability insurance.  Any such
future charges, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely effect BD’s results of operations and cash flows. 

Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect BD’s future revenues and operating income.

     The medical device industry has experienced a significant amount of consolidation.  As a result of this consolidation, competition to provide goods and services to customers has increased.  In
addition, group purchasing organizations and integrated health delivery networks have served to concentrate purchasing decisions for some customers, which has placed pricing pressure on medical device suppliers. Further consolidation in the industry
could exert additional pressure on the prices of our products.

Changes in reimbursement practices of third-party payers could affect the demand for our products and the prices at which they are sold. 

     Our sales depend, in part, on the extent to which healthcare providers and facilities are reimbursed by government authorities, private insurers and other third-party payers for the costs of
our products. The coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers may affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for these products. Legislative or administrative reforms to reimbursement systems
in the U.S. or abroad could significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using BD medical devices, or result in denial of reimbursement for those products. See “Third-Party Reimbursement” under Item 1. Business.

Product defects could adversely affect the results of our operations. 

     The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks
relating to the use of the product can lead to injury or other adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other
countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. Any recall could result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. Personal
injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. 

We may experience difficulties implementing our enterprise resource planning system. 

     We have initiated a project to upgrade our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system. Our ERP system is critical to our ability to accurately maintain books and records, record
transactions, provide important information to our management and prepare our financial statements. The design and implementation of the new ERP system will require the investment of significant financial and human resources. The total cost needed
to implement the new ERP system may turn out to be more than we currently anticipate.  In addition, we may not be able to successfully implement the new ERP system without experiencing difficulties.  Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the
design and implementation of the new ERP system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our
business, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

BD is subject to extensive regulation.

     BD is subject to extensive regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing
bodies. Most of BD’s products must receive clearance or approval from the FDA or counterpart non-U.S. regulatory agencies before they can be marketed or sold. The process for obtaining marketing approval or clearance may take a significant
period of time and require the expenditure of substantial resources. The process may also require changes to our products or result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. In addition, regulatory requirements outside the U.S. change
frequently, requiring prompt action to maintain compliance, particularly when product modifications are required.

8 









     Following the introduction of a product, these agencies also periodically review our manufacturing processes and product performance. Our failure to comply with the applicable good
manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting, clinical trial and other requirements of these agencies could delay or prevent the production, marketing or sale of our products and result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances,
closure of manufacturing sites, seizures or recalls of products and damage to our reputation.

We cannot guarantee that any of BD’s strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances will be successful. 

     While our strategy to increase revenue growth is driven primarily by internal product development, we will seek to supplement our growth through strategic acquisitions, investments and
alliances. Such transactions are inherently risky. The success of any acquisition, investment or alliance may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity or to
successfully integrate it into our existing business. There can be no assurance that any past or future transaction will be successful.

The international operations of BD’s business may subject BD to certain business risks. 

     BD operations outside the U.S. subject BD to certain risks, including the effects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange (as discussed above), the spread of a global economic downturn,
changes in foreign regulatory requirements, potential political instability, trade barriers, weakening of the protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, and restrictions on the transfer of capital across borders. The success of
our operations outside the U.S. will depend, in part, on our ability to acquire or form alliances with local companies and make necessary infrastructure enhancements to, among other things, our production facilities and distribution networks.


Reductions in customers’ research budgets or government funding may adversely affect our BD Biosciences segment. 

     Our BD Biosciences segment sells products to researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories and private foundations. Research and
development spending of our customers can fluctuate based on spending priorities and general economic conditions. A number of these customers are also dependent upon grants from U.S. government agencies, such as the U.S. National Institutes of
Health (“NIH”), and agencies in other countries for their funding. The level of government funding of research and development is unpredictable, and may be adversely affected by the current economic downturn. In addition, there have been
instances where NIH grants have been frozen or otherwise unavailable for extended periods. Any reduction or delay in governmental funding could cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products.

Our operations are dependent in part on patents and other intellectual property rights. 

     Many of BD’s businesses rely on patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights. While we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other intellectual property asset would
materially adversely affect BD operations, these intellectual property assets, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business. BD can lose the protection afforded by these intellectual property assets through patent expirations, legal
challenges or governmental action. Patents attained by competitors, particularly as patents on our products expire, may also adversely affect our competitive position. The loss of a significant portion of our portfolio of intellectual property
assets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition or cash flows.

Natural disasters, war and other events could adversely affect BD’s future revenues and operating income.

     Natural disasters, pandemics, war, terrorism, labor disruptions and international conflicts, and actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events, could cause
significant economic disruption and political and social instability in the U.S. and in areas outside of the U.S. in which we operate. These events could result in decreased demand for our products, adversely affect our manufacturing and
distribution capabilities, or increase the costs for or cause interruptions in the supply of materials from our suppliers. 

9 









We need to attract and retain key employees to be competitive. 

     Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to attract and retain executives and other key employees, including people in technical, marketing, sales and research positions.
Competition for experienced employees, particularly for persons with specialized skills, can be intense. The Company’s ability to recruit such talent will depend on a number of factors, including compensation and benefits, work location and
work environment. If we cannot effectively recruit and retain qualified executives and employees, our business could be adversely affected.

Item 1B