Item 1A.  Risk Factors

You should carefully consider the following factors that could materially affect
our  business.  There are also other risks that are not  presently  known or not
presently  material,  as well as the other information set forth in this report,
which could affect materially our business. In addition, in our periodic filings
with the SEC,  press  releases and other  statements,  we discuss  estimates and
projections   regarding  our  future  performance  and  business  outlook.  Such
"forward-looking  statements," by their nature, involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors that in some cases are out of our control. These
factors could cause our actual results to differ  materially from our historical
experience  or our present  expectations  and  projections.  The  following is a
non-exclusive discussion of such risks and uncertainties.

OUR BUSINESS  MAY BE  ADVERSELY  AFFECTED BY  UNFAVORABLE  ECONOMIC  CONDITIONS,
PARTICULARLY  IN THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER MARKETS WHOSE  ECONOMIES ARE LINKED
TO THAT OF THE U.S.

In fiscal  2008,  nearly  half of our net sales were in the United  States.  Our
business  prospects  generally  depend heavily on the health of the U.S. economy
and the local  economies of a number of countries  whose economies are linked to
that of the U.S.  Difficult  economic  conditions  may  result  from a number of
factors, including higher energy prices, declining home prices, deterioration of
the lending markets,  decreased  discretionary  income, major natural disasters,
widespread  outbreak of infectious  diseases such as avian influenza,  terrorist
attacks  and related  subsequent  events,  including  the U.S.  response,  other
hostile acts,  retaliation,  war, threats of any of these, and other factors. In
difficult economic times, consumers may reduce discretionary spending,  decrease
their bar,  restaurant and hotel spending,  purchase  beverage  alcohol on fewer
occasions,  and shift to  lower-priced  products.  For all of these  reasons,  a
continuation of the  deterioration in general economic  conditions in the United
States could adversely affect our sales and earnings.

OUR GLOBAL GROWTH IS SUBJECT TO A NUMBER OF ECONOMIC,  COMMERCIAL  AND POLITICAL
RISKS.

We currently market products in more than 135 countries. Significant markets for
us in terms of  revenue  and  profits  include  the United  Kingdom,  Australia,
Germany,  Poland,  Mexico,  South  Africa,  Spain,  France,  Canada,  the  Czech
Republic,  Italy,  China,  Japan,  and  Russia.  We expect our future  growth in
markets  outside  the U.S.  to  surpass  our  growth in this  country.  Emerging
markets, such as Central and Eastern Europe, Latin America, Russia and China, as
well as countries  that some companies  might consider to be developed  markets,
also provide significant growth opportunities for us.

If economic  conditions  deteriorate in our significant  global  markets,  or if
there is an increase in  anti-American  sentiment in the principal  countries to
which we export  our  beverage  products,  our  global  business  could  suffer.
Potentially unstable governments or legal systems,  intergovernmental  disputes,
military   conflicts,   local   labor   conditions   and   business   practices,
nationalizations, inflation, recession, U. S. laws regulating activities of U.S.
companies abroad, and laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, are
also risks due to the global nature of our business.  These and other political,
commercial and economic  uncertainties  in our various  markets around the world
may have a material adverse effect on our prospects or results of operation.

The long-term outlook for our beverage business anticipates continued success of
Jack Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey,  Southern Comfort,  Finlandia Vodka,  Tequila
Herradura,  el Jimador Tequila, and our other core spirits and wine brands. This
assumption is based in part on favorable demographic trends in the United States
and  many of our  global  markets  for the sale of wine  and  spirits.  If these
demographic trends do not translate into corresponding  sales increases,  we may
fail to meet our expectations for our global beverage business.

OUR OPERATIONS  SUBJECT US TO RISKS  ASSOCIATED WITH FOREIGN  CURRENCY  EXCHANGE
RATES.

Sales of our brands and our  purchases  of goods and  services in  international
markets  are  conducted  in local  currency.  Thus,  profits  from our  overseas
business  could be adversely  affected if the U.S.  dollar  strengthens  against
other currencies,  especially the British pound,  euro,  Australian  dollar, and
South African  rand,  because the local  currency  received from the sale of our
products would translate into fewer U.S. dollars. To the extent we are unable to
effectively  manage our  exposure to such  foreign  exchange  fluctuations,  our
financial results may suffer.

RISING COSTS OR  UNAVAILABILITY  OF INPUT  MATERIALS  COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL
RESULTS, AS COULD OUR INABILITY TO OBTAIN FINISHED GOODS.

If energy costs continue to rise or remain high, our transportation, freight and
other operating  costs,  such as distilling and bottling,  will likely increase.
Similarly, rising costs of grain, grapes, agave, wood, glass, plastic, and other
input materials and/or  associated labor costs would likely adversely affect our
financial  results.  We may not be able to pass along such cost increases to our
customers through higher prices.

Our products use a number of materials  and  ingredients  that we purchase  from
third party  suppliers.  Our ability to produce  our  products  hinges on having
available all of the raw materials,  ingredients,  bottle  closures,  packaging,
bottles,  cans,  and other  materials  used to make and  package  them;  without
sufficient  quantities of one or more key input  materials,  our  operations and
financial  results could suffer.  For instance,  only a few glass producers make
bottles  on a  scale  sufficient  for our  requirements  and a  single  producer
(Owens-Illinois)  supplies  virtually all of our glass  container  requirements.
Similarly,  a Finnish corporation (Altia plc) distills and bottles our Finlandia
products  for  us  pursuant  to an  exclusive  long-term  supply  agreement.  If
Owens-Illinois,  Altia or other of our key  suppliers  ceased being able to meet
our timing, quality or capacity requirements,  ceased doing business with us, or
increased  their  prices  and we could not  develop  alternative  cost-effective
sources of supply,  our  operations  and  financial  results  could be adversely
affected.  Additionally,  rising  energy and other  costs may  curtail  consumer
spending on  entertainment  and  discretionary  products,  thereby  resulting in
decreased purchases of our brands.

DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS MAY DECREASE DUE TO CHANGES IN CONSUMER  PREFERENCES AND
TASTES.

We operate in a highly  competitive  marketplace.  Maintaining  our  competitive
position  depends on our continued  ability to offer products that have a strong
appeal to consumers. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors,
including  changes in demographic  and social trends,  and changes in dining and
beverage  consumption  patterns,  as they  have  from  time to time in the past.
Consumer  preferences  away from our premium brands in any of our major markets,
or from  our  ready-to-drink  products,  particularly  Jack  Daniel's  & Cola in
Australia (its largest  market) or New Mix, the el Jimador based  ready-to-drink
product we sell in Mexico, may adversely hurt our results of operations.

NATIONAL AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS OR UNDERTAKE INVESTIGATIONS
THAT COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS OR OUR  LIABILITIES,  OR THAT COULD LIMIT OUR WINE
AND SPIRITS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.

Our  operations  are  subject to  extensive  regulatory  requirements  regarding
advertising,   marketing,  labeling,   distribution  and  production.  Legal  or
regulatory   measures  against  beverage  alcohol  could  adversely  affect  our
business.  In particular,  governmental bodies in countries where we operate may
impose or increase  limitations on advertising  and promotional  activities,  or
adopt  other  non-tariff  measures  that  could  hurt our  sales.  In  addition,
particularly  in the United  States,  federal  officials  and  officials in some
states have begun  investigating  trade practices of beverage alcohol suppliers,
distributors  and  retailers.  Adverse  developments  in or as a result of these
regulatory measures and investigations or similar  investigations could hurt our
business.

TAX  INCREASES  AND CHANGES IN  ACCOUNTING  STANDARDS  COULD HURT OUR  FINANCIAL
RESULTS.

The wine and spirits business is highly sensitive to changes in taxes. Increases
in state or federal excise taxes in the U.S. could depress our domestic wine and
spirits business,  both through reducing overall  consumption and by encouraging
consumers  to  switch  to  lower-taxed   categories  of  beverage  alcohol.   No
legislation  to increase  U.S.  federal  excise  taxes on  distilled  spirits is
currently pending, but future increases are possible, as are taxes levied on the
broader  business  community.  From time to time,  state  and local  governments
increase beverage alcohol taxes. Changes to the U.S. presidency and Congress may
lead to significant  increases in taxes paid by beverage alcohol  producers,  as
well  as  the  business   community  at  large.  New  accounting   standards  or
pronouncements,  and changes in interpretation of existing standards, could have
a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods as well.

Tax rate  increases,  such as income  taxes,  excise  taxes,  value added taxes,
import and  export  duties,  and/or  tariff  barriers,  and the  suddenness  and
unpredictability  with which they can occur,  also affect our  beverage  alcohol
business  in the many  other  countries  in which we do  business.  In the past,
changes in tax rates in these markets have not been  significant  to our overall
business,  but as our sales outside the United  States  continue to grow and tax
regimes in these markets get  increasingly  onerous for our products,  this risk
becomes more pronounced.  For instance,  the Australian  government recently and
unexpectedly   imposed  a  significant  excise  tax  increase  on  spirits-based
ready-to-drink  products,  which could impede  sales of Jack  Daniel's & Cola in
that product's largest market.

IF THE SOCIAL  ACCEPTABILITY  OF OUR  PRODUCTS  DECLINES  OR  GOVERNMENTS  ADOPT
POLICIES AGAINST BEVERAGE  ALCOHOL,  OUR BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY  ADVERSELY
AFFECTED.

Our ability to market and sell our alcohol beverage  products depends heavily on
both society's  attitudes  toward drinking and  governmental  policies that flow
from those  attitudes.  In recent  years,  there has been  increased  social and
political  attention  directed  at the  beverage  alcohol  industry.  The recent
attention  has  focused  largely on public  health  concerns  related to alcohol
abuse, including drunk driving,  underage drinking, and health consequences from
the misuse of beverage  alcohol.  Alcohol critics in the U.S.,  Europe and other
countries  around the world  increasingly  seek  governmental  measures  to make
beverage alcohol more expensive, less available, and more difficult to advertise
and promote.  If the social  acceptability  of beverage  alcohol were to decline
significantly,  sales of our products could materially decrease. Our sales would
also suffer if governments sought to ban or restrict  advertising or promotional
activities,  to limit  hours or  places  of sale,  or took  other  actions  that
discourage alcohol purchase or consumption.

LITIGATION COULD EXPOSE OUR BUSINESS TO FINANCIAL AND REPUTATIONAL RISK.

The courts have  dismissed  most of the recent  putative  class action  lawsuits
against spirits,  beer, and wine  manufacturers,  including  Brown- Forman.  The
suits had alleged that our  marketing  causes  illegal  alcohol  consumption  by
persons  under the  legal  drinking  age.  The  cases  not  dismissed  have been
withdrawn  voluntarily and that series of litigation is concluded.  However, the
attorneys  general in a number of U.S.  states  continue  to  investigate  trade
marketing  practices of beverage alcohol producers and wholesalers.  Lawsuits or
governmental  investigations  similar to these could hurt our  business  and the
overall industry.

PRODUCTION COST INCREASES MAY ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR BUSINESS,  ESPECIALLY  WINES
AND TEQUILAS.

Our California-based  wine operations have entered into long-term contracts with
various   growers  and   wineries  to  supply   portions  of  our  future  grape
requirements.  Most of the contracts  call for prices to be determined  based on
market  conditions,  within a certain range, and most of the contracts also have
minimum  tonnage  requirements.   Although  these  contracts  may  provide  some
protection  in times of  rising  grape  prices,  the  contracts  may  result  in
above-market costs during times of declining prices.  Likewise, our Mexico-based
tequila  operations  have entered into  long-term  contracts with land owners in
regions  where blue agave can be grown.  Most of these  contracts  require us to
plant,  maintain,  and harvest the agave,  plus  compensate  the owners based on
specified  percentages of the crop at the prevailing market price at the time of
harvest.   Instability  in  agave  market  conditions  could  cause  us  to  pay
above-market costs for some of the agave we use to produce tequila. There can be
no assurances as to the future  prevailing  market prices for grapes or agave or
our ability, relative to our competitors, to take advantage of changes in market
prices. Weather, changes in climate conditions, diseases, and other agricultural
uncertainties that affect the mortality,  health, yield or quality of grapes and
agave also present risks for these businesses.

CONSOLIDATION  AMONG,  INCREASED  COMPETITION BY OR POOR  PERFORMANCE BY SPIRITS
PRODUCERS,  WHOLESALERS  OR  RETAILERS  COULD  HINDER  THE  MARKETING,  SALE AND
DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS.

We use a number  of  different  business  models to market  and  distribute  our
products.  In the  United  States  we sell  our  products  either  to  wholesale
distributors   or,  in  those  states  that  control  alcohol  sales,  to  state
governments  who then  sell to  retail  customers  and  consumers.  In our other
markets around the world, we use a variety of route-to-consumer  frameworks, but
in many markets we rely largely on other  spirits  producers to  distribute  and
market our products.  Distributor,  wholesaler and retailer  consolidations have
not in the past negatively  affected our business.  Nevertheless,  consolidation
among  spirits  producers  overseas or  wholesalers  in the United  States could
hinder  the  distribution  and  sale of our  products  as a  result  of  reduced
attention and resource allocation to our brands during transition  periods,  the
possibility  that our brands may represent a smaller  portion of their business,
and/or  a  changing  competitive  environment.  We also  believe  that  our size
relative to that of our competitors gives us sufficient scale to succeed; but we
nevertheless  face a risk that a continuing  consolidation of the large beverage
alcohol companies could put us at a competitive disadvantage.

Retailers and  wholesalers of our products offer products that compete  directly
with ours for shelf space, promotional displays and consumer purchases. Pricing,
marketing and other competitive behavior by other suppliers, and by distributors
and retailers who sell their products  focused  against one or more of our major
products could also adversely affect the sales of our products and our financial
results.  In times of an economic  slowdown,  consumers tend to be  particularly
price  sensitive and make more of their  purchases in discount  stores and other
off-premise   establishments.   Therefore,  the  effects  of  these  competitive
activities may be more pronounced in a difficult economic climate.

WE MAY NOT SUCCEED IN OUR STRATEGIES FOR ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS.

From time to time,  we  acquire  additional  brands or  businesses,  such as our
recent purchases of the Casa Herradura business and Chambord Liqueur.  We intend
to  continue  to seek  acquisitions  that we  believe  will  increase  long-term
shareholder  value,  but we  cannot  assure  that we  will  be able to find  and
purchase  businesses at acceptable prices and terms. It may also prove difficult
to integrate acquired businesses and personnel into our existing operations, and
to bring  them into  conformity  with our trade  practice  standards,  financial
control  environment  and U.S.  public  company  requirements.  Integration  may
involve  significant  expenses  and  management  time  and  attention,  and  may
otherwise disrupt our business.  Our ability to grow the volumes and maintain or
increase  the profit  margins on the brands we acquire  will be important to our
future   performance.   For  instance,   our   expectations  for  future  profit
contribution  from the main brands we purchased in the Casa  Herradura  business
depend on our ability to grow the  Herradura  and el Jimador  brands in the U.S.
and other key tequila markets around the world.

Business  acquisitions also may expose us to unknown  liabilities,  the possible
loss of key customers and employees  knowledgeable  about the acquired business,
and risks  associated  with doing  business in  countries  or regions  with less
stable  governments,  political  climates,  and legal systems and/or  economies,
among other risks.  Acquisitions could also lead us to incur additional debt and
related interest expense, issue shares, and increase our contingent liabilities,
as well as to  experience  dilution in earnings per share and a reduction in our
return  on  invested  capital.   Acquisitions  may  cause  us  to  incur  future
restructuring  charges or impairment  losses on goodwill and  intangible  assets
with  an  indefinite  life,  which  may  also  adversely  affect  our  financial
performance.

We also  evaluate  from  time-to-time  the  potential  disposition  of assets or
businesses  that may no longer  help us meet our  growth,  return and  strategic
objectives.  In selling assets or businesses, we may not get a price or terms as
favorable  as we  anticipated.  We could also  encounter  difficulty  in finding
buyers  on  acceptable  terms  in  a  timely  manner,   which  could  delay  our
accomplishment  of  strategic  objectives.  Expected  cost  savings from reduced
overhead relating to the sold assets may not materialize.

TERMINATION OF OUR RIGHTS TO DISTRIBUTE AND MARKET AGENCY BRANDS INCLUDED IN OUR
PORTFOLIO COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

In  addition  to the brands our  company  owns,  we also  market and  distribute
products on behalf of other brand owners in selected markets, including the U.S.
Our rights to sell these agency  brands are based on contracts  with the various
brand owners, which have varying lengths, renewal terms, termination rights, and
other  provisions.  We earn a margin for these sales and also gain  distribution
cost efficiencies in some instances. Therefore, the termination of our rights to
distribute  agency brands included in our portfolio  could adversely  affect our
business.

COUNTERFEIT  PRODUCTION OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY RIGHTS, BRAND EQUITY AND OPERATING RESULTS.

The  beverage   alcohol   industry  is   experiencing   problems   with  product
counterfeiting and other forms of trademark infringement,  especially within the
Asian and Eastern European markets.  Given our dependence on brand  recognition,
we devote substantial resources on a worldwide basis to protect our intellectual
property  rights.  In  addition,  we have taken  steps to reduce the  ability of
others to  imitate  our  products.  Although  we believe  that our  intellectual
property  rights are legally  supported  in the markets in which we do business,
the protection afforded intellectual property rights varies greatly from country
to country.  Confusingly  similar,  lower quality or even dangerous  counterfeit
product could reach the market and adversely  affect our  intellectual  property
rights, brand equity and/or operating results.

In  addition,  sales of a brand might  diminish  because of a scare over product
contamination.  Actual  contamination  of our products or raw materials  used to
produce, ferment or distill them, whether arising deliberately by a third party,
or accidentally, could lead to below average product quality and even illness or
injury to consumers.  If a product  recall  becomes  necessary,  that also could
impede sales of the affected product or across our brand portfolio.

PRESS  ARTICLES  AND OTHER  PUBLIC MEDIA MAY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE AND BUSINESS
PERFORMANCE.

Press articles or other public media related to our company, brands,  personnel,
operations, business performance or prospects may affect our stock price and the
performance of our business,  regardless of the accuracy of the substance of the
communication.  Since  we  are a  branded  consumer  products  company,  adverse
publicity can hurt both our  company's  stock price and actual  performance,  as
consumers might steer away from brands or products that receive bad press.


Item 1B