. Risk Factors and those described from time to time in our future reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including:•Unfavorable global or regional economic conditions, and related low consumer confidence, high unemployment, weak credit or capital markets, sovereign debt defaults, sequestrations, austerity measures, higher interest rates, political instability, higher inflation, deflation, lower returns on pension assets, or lower discount rates for pension obligations•Risks associated with being a U.S.-based company with global operations, including political or civil unrest; local labor policies and conditions; protectionist trade policies; compliance with local trade practices and other regulations, including anti-corruption laws; terrorism; and health pandemics •Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates•Changes in laws, regulations or policies - especially those that affect the production, importation, marketing, sale or consumption of our beverage alcohol products•Tax rate changes (including excise, sales, VAT, tariffs, duties, corporate, individual income, dividends, capital gains) or changes in related reserves, changes in tax rules (e.g., LIFO, foreign income deferral, U.S. manufacturing and other deductions) or accounting standards, and the unpredictability and suddenness with which they can occur•Dependence upon the continued growth of the Jack Daniel’s family of brands  •Changes in consumer preferences, consumption or purchase patterns - particularly away from brown spirits, our premium products, or spirits generally, and our ability to anticipate and react to them; decline in the social acceptability of beverage alcohol products in significant markets; bar, restaurant, travel or other on-premise declines•Production facility, aging warehouse or supply chain disruption; imprecision in supply/demand forecasting •Higher costs, lower quality or unavailability of energy, input materials or finished goods•Route-to-consumer changes that affect the timing of our sales, temporarily disrupt the marketing or sale of our products, or result in implementation-related or higher fixed costs•Inventory fluctuations in our products by distributors, wholesalers, or retailers•Competitors’ consolidation or other competitive activities, such as pricing actions (including price reductions, promotions, discounting, couponing or free goods), marketing, category expansion, product introductions, entry or expansion in our geographic markets or distribution networks•Risks associated with acquisitions, dispositions, business partnerships or investments - such as acquisition integration, or termination difficulties or costs, or impairment in recorded value•Insufficient protection of our intellectual property rights 6Table of Contents•Product counterfeiting, tampering, or recall, or product quality issues •Significant legal disputes and proceedings; government investigations (particularly of industry or company business, trade or marketing practices) •Failure or breach of key information technology systems•Negative publicity related to our company, brands, marketing, personnel, operations, business performance or prospects •Business disruption, decline or costs related to organizational changes, reductions in workforce or other cost-cutting measures, or our failure to attract or retain key executive or employee talent Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information. Certain matters discussed in this report, including the information presented in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, include measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), including “constant-currency” and “underlying”  measures of changes in income statement line items. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP, and also may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliations of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the company’s use of these measures, are presented in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading, “Basis of Presentation and Use of Non-GAAP Measures.”Item 1A.    Risk FactorsWe believe the following discussion identifies the most significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, also may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition in future periods.Unfavorable economic conditions could negatively affect our operations and results.Unfavorable global or regional economic conditions, including for example the recent Eurozone financial crisis, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Many markets where our products are sold face significant economic challenges, including low consumer confidence, high unemployment, budget deficits, burdensome governmental debt, austerity measures, sequestrations, increased taxes, and weak financial, credit, and housing markets. Unfavorable economic conditions can cause governments to increase taxes on beverage alcohol to raise revenue and/or reduce consumers’ willingness to make discretionary purchases of beverage alcohol products, and/or pay for premium brands such as ours. In unfavorable economic conditions, consumers may make more value-driven and price-sensitive purchasing choices and participate in more at-home drinking occasions rather than at restaurants, bars, and hotels, which tend to favor many of our premium and super-premium products.Also, our suppliers, distributors, and retailers could experience cash flow problems, more costly or unavailable financing, credit defaults, and other financial hardships, which could lead to distributor or retailer destocking, an increase in our bad debt expense, or cause us to decrease the levels of unsecured credit that we provide to customers. Other potential negative ramifications to our business from poor economic conditions include political instability, higher interest rates, an increase in the rate of inflation, deflation, exchange rate fluctuations, credit or capital market instability, bank failures, and/or lower returns on pension assets or lower discount rates for pension obligations (requiring higher contributions to our pension plans). For additional information with respect to the effects of changes in the value of our benefit plan obligations and assets on our financial results, see “Pension and other Postretirement Benefits” on page 35 of this report on Form 10-K.Our global business is subject to a number of commercial, political, and financial risks, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.Our products are sold in more than 150 countries around the world; accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. We continue to expect our future growth rates in non-U.S. markets to surpass our growth rates in the United States. Emerging regions, such as Eastern Europe, Latin America, Asia and Africa, as well as more developed markets, such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and Australia, provide growth opportunities for us. If shipments of our products - particularly Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey - to our global markets were to experience significant disruption, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial results.In addition, we are subject to potential business disruption caused by military conflicts, intergovernmental disputes, potentially unstable governments or legal systems, civil or political upheaval or unrest, local labor policies and conditions, possible expropriation, nationalization and/or confiscation of assets, problems with repatriation of foreign earnings, closure of markets to imports, anti-American sentiment, terrorism in or outside the United States, health pandemics, and a significant reduction in global 7Table of Contentstravel. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to overcome the challenges we encounter with respect to these risks and other factors affecting U.S. companies with global operations.The more we expand our business globally, the more exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar influence our financial results. In markets other than the United States, we sell our products, and pay for some goods, services, and manpower primarily in local currency. Since we sell more in local currencies than we purchase, we have a net exposure to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to those currencies. Thus, profits from our overseas businesses would be adversely affected if the dollar were to strengthen against other currencies in our major markets, especially the euro, British pound sterling, Australian dollar, Polish zloty, Mexican peso, Russian ruble, or Japanese yen. In an effort to buffer this effect, we use foreign currency derivatives to reduce the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. While foreign currency derivatives may limit our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in mitigating our foreign currency risk. Over time, our reported financial results generally will be hurt by a stronger U.S. dollar and improved by a weaker one. For additional information with respect to foreign exchange effects on our business, please see “Foreign Exchange” on page 36 of this report on Form 10-K.National and local governments may adopt regulations or undertake investigations that could limit our business activities and/or increase our costs.Our business is subject to extensive regulatory requirements regarding production, importation, marketing and promotion, labeling, distribution, pricing, and trade practices, among others. Changes in laws, regulatory measures, or governmental policies, or in the manner in which current ones are interpreted, could cause us to incur material additional costs or liabilities, and jeopardize the growth of our business in the affected market. Specifically, governments may prohibit, or impose or increase limitations on, advertising and promotional activities, or times or locations where beverage alcohol may be sold or consumed, or adopt other measures that could limit our opportunities to reach consumers and/or sell our products. In the United States for example, the National Transportation Safety Board has recently recommended the adoption by all 50 states of lower blood alcohol content thresholds for drivers of 0.05%, versus the current 0.08%. In Europe, regulators in a number of countries have adopted or are considering severe limitations on the marketing and sale of beverage alcohol, as well as the imposition of minimum pricing. Russia has banned all television, newspaper, magazine, and Internet advertising (.ru websites) for beverage alcohol products. Turkey recently adopted measures to ban all beverage alcohol advertising and increase restrictions on sales. Increases in regulation of this nature could cause a substantial decline in consumer demand for our products in the affected market.Certain countries in which we do business have a higher risk of corruption than others. While we are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws, our Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics, and other Company policies, we remain subject to the risk that an employee will violate our policies, or that any of our many affiliates or agents, such as importers, wholesalers, distributors, or other business partners, may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, or local equivalent laws. Any determination that our operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could result in investigations, interruption of business, loss of business partner relationships, suspension or termination of licenses and permits (our own or a partner’s), imposition of fines, legal or equitable sanctions, negative publicity, and management distraction. Further, our compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws, our code of conduct and ethics, and other Company policies could result in higher operating costs versus other suppliers.Additional regulation in the United States and other countries around climate change and other environmental issues could increase our operating costs, due to the cost of compliance.Tax increases and changes in tax rules could adversely affect our financial results.Our business is sensitive to changes in both direct and indirect taxes. As a multinational company based in the United States, we are more exposed to the impact of U.S tax changes than most of our major competitors, especially those that affect the net effective corporate income tax rate. Tax changes that have been proposed in the past (but not enacted) by Congress or the present administration exemplify this risk; they include repealing LIFO (last-in, first-out accounting treatment of inventory) for tax purposes, decreasing or eliminating the ability of U.S.-based companies to receive a tax credit for foreign taxes paid, or to obtain a current U.S. tax deduction for certain expenses in the United States related to foreign earnings, or decreasing or eliminating the U.S. manufacturing deduction. Distilled spirits products are subject to excise taxation in many markets, including the United States, at the country, state and/or local level. Any increase in excise taxes in markets where we sell our products could result in increased prices and reduced consumer demand, and could encourage consumers to switch to lower-priced and/or lower-taxed product categories such as local spirits, beer or wine, or to non-alcoholic beverages.Our business operations are also subject to numerous duties or taxes that are not based on income, sometimes referred to as “indirect taxes,” which include excise, sales or value-added taxes, property taxes and payroll taxes. Increases in or the imposition of new indirect taxes on our operations or products would increase the cost of our products or, to the extent levied directly on 8Table of Contentsconsumers, make our products less affordable, which could negatively affect our financial results by reducing purchases of our products and encouraging consumers to switch to lower-priced and/or lower-taxed product categories. Our global business can also be negatively affected by import and export duties, tariff barriers, and/or related local governmental economic protectionist measures, and the suddenness and unpredictability with which these can occur. The recent global economic downturn has increased our tax-related risks in many countries where we do business, as governmental entities could further increase taxes on beverage alcohol products in an effort to replace lost revenues. New tax rules, accounting standards or pronouncements, and changes in interpretation of existing ones, could also have a significant adverse effect on our business and financial results.Our business performance is substantially dependent upon the continued health of Jack Daniel’s.The Jack Daniel’s family of brands is the primary driver of our growth. Jack Daniel’s is an iconic global trademark with a loyal consumer fan base, and we invest much effort and resources to protect and preserve the brand’s reputation for quality, craftsmanship and responsibility. A brand’s reputational value is based in large part on consumer perceptions, and even an isolated incident that causes harm - particularly one resulting in widespread negative publicity - could negatively influence these perceptions and erode consumer trust and confidence in the brand. Significant damage to the Jack Daniel’s brand equity would adversely affect our business. Given the importance of the Jack Daniel’s brand to our overall Company success, a significant or sustained decline in volume or selling price of our Jack Daniel’s products would likely have a negative effect on our growth and our stock price.  Additionally, should we not be successful in our efforts to maintain and/or increase the relevance of the Jack Daniel’s brand in the minds of today’s and tomorrow’s consumer, our business and operating results could suffer. For additional information on the importance of the Jack Daniel’s family of brands to our business, please see “Fiscal 2013 Brand Highlights” on pages 24 and 25 of this report on Form 10-K.Changes in consumer preferences and purchases, and our ability to anticipate and react to them, could negatively affect our business results.We are a branded consumer products company in a highly competitive market. Our success depends on our continued ability to offer consumers highly appealing products. Consumer preferences and purchases may shift due to a host of factors, many of which are difficult to predict, including changes in economic conditions, demographic and social trends, public health policies and initiatives, changes in government regulation of beverage alcohol products, the potential legalization of marijuana use on a more widespread basis within the United States, and changes in travel, leisure, dining, gifting, entertaining, and beverage consumption trends. To continue to succeed we must anticipate and respond effectively to shifts in demographics, consumer behavior, drinking tastes and drinking occasions. Our business results could be negatively affected by shifts in demographic trends, specifically in the United States, where our base skews heavily toward non-Hispanic white consumers. In the coming years, demographic cohorts other than non-Hispanic whites are expected to grow more quickly than the non-Hispanic white cohort. If we fail to attract consumers from diverse backgrounds and ethnicities, our business results could suffer. Further, trends in the United States for several years after 2014 indicate a slight decrease in the population segment aged 21 to 24; fewer potential consumers in this age bracket could have a negative effect on industry growth rates and our business.Our plans call for the continued growth of the Jack Daniel’s family of brands. Particularly, we plan to continue to grow Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Honey sales in the United States this fiscal year and to expand this brand to more of our international markets. Our plans also call for the Southern Comfort brand family to stabilize. If these plans are unsuccessful, or if we otherwise fail to develop or implement effective business, portfolio and brand strategies, our growth, stock price, or financial results could suffer. More broadly, if consumers shift away from spirits (particularly brown spirits), our premium priced brands, or our ready-to-drink products, our financial results could be adversely affected. Improving our price position in certain markets and for certain brands is part of our growth plan for fiscal 2014. In some markets, this will represent a second price increase in as many years.  If consumers or the trade react unfavorably to our pricing changes, our financial results may be negatively affected.We believe that new products, line extensions, label and bottle changes, product reformulations, and similar product innovations by both us and our competitors will compete increasingly for consumer drinking occasions. Product innovation is a significant element of our growth strategy; however, there can be no assurance that we will continue to develop and implement successful line extensions, packaging, formulation or flavor changes, or new products. Unsuccessful implementation or short-lived popularity of our product innovations could result in inventory write-offs and other costs, and also could damage the consumer’s perception of the brand family. Our inability to attract consumers to our product innovations relative to our competitors’ products - especially over time - could negatively affect our growth, business and financial results.Production facility disruption or the inherent uncertainty in supply/demand forecasting could adversely affect our business, particularly with respect to our aged products.Some of our largest brands, including Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey and Finlandia Vodka, are produced at a single location. If there were a catastrophic event causing physical damage, disruption, or failure at one of our major distillation or bottling facilities, our business could be adversely affected. Further, because whiskies and some tequilas are aged for various periods, we 9Table of Contentsmaintain a substantial inventory of aged and maturing products in warehouses at a handful of different sites. The loss of a substantial amount of aged inventory - through fire, other natural or man-made disaster, contamination, or otherwise - could result in a significant reduction in supply of the affected product or products. If we experienced a disruption in the supply of new oak barrels in which to age our whiskies, our business could suffer. A consequence of any of these or other supply or supply chain disruptions could be our inability to meet consumer demand for the affected products for a period of time. In addition, insurance proceeds may be insufficient to cover the replacement value of our inventory of maturing products and other assets if they were to be lost. Disaster recovery plans may not prevent business disruption, and reconstruction of any damaged facilities could last for a significant period of time.There is an inherent risk of forecasting imprecision in determining the quantity of maturing stock to store in a given year for future consumption. The forecasting strategies we use to balance product supply with fluctuations in consumer demand may not be effective for particular years, products or markets. There are a number of levers that we use, including price, to balance available supply with fluctuations in consumer demand, but we cannot be sure whether the levers will create the desired balance for particular years, products or markets. As a consequence, we may be unable to meet consumer demand for the affected products for a period of time. Furthermore, not having our products in the market on a consistent basis may adversely affect our brand equity and future sales.Higher costs or unavailability of materials could adversely affect our financial results, as could our inability to obtain certain finished goods.Our products use a number of materials and ingredients that we purchase from third-party suppliers. Our ability to make and sell our products depends upon the availability of the raw materials, product ingredients, finished product, glass, bottles, cans, bottle closures, packaging, and other materials used to produce and package them. Without sufficient quantities of one or more key materials, our operations and financial results could suffer. For instance, only a few glass producers make bottles on a scale sufficient for our requirements, and a single producer supplies most of our glass requirements. Similarly, a Finnish company distills and bottles Finlandia Vodka for us. If any of our key suppliers were no longer able to meet our timing, quality or capacity requirements, ceased doing business with us, or raised prices, and we could not develop alternative cost-effective sources of supply or production, our operations and financial results could suffer.Higher costs or insufficient availability of suitable grain, agave, water, grapes, wood, glass, closures, and other input materials and/or associated labor costs may adversely affect our financial results, since we may not be able to pass along such cost increases or shortages through higher prices to customers. Similarly, when energy costs rise, our transportation, freight and other operating costs, such as distilling and bottling expenses, also may increase. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we are not able to pass along energy cost increases through higher prices to our customers.Weather, the effects of climate change, diseases and other agricultural uncertainties that affect the mortality, health, yield, quality or price of the various raw materials used in our products also present risks for our business, including in some cases potential impairment in the recorded value of our inventory. Changes in frequency or intensity of weather can disrupt our supply chain as well, which may affect production operations, insurance costs and coverage, as well as the timely delivery of our products to customers. As water is one of the major components of our products, the quality and quantity of the water available for use is important to our ability to operate our business. If hydrologic cycle patterns change, and droughts become more common or severe, or if the water supply were interrupted for other reasons, there might be a scarcity of desirable water in some of the key production regions for our products, including Tennessee, Kentucky, Finland, Canada, Mexico, and California.If the social acceptability of our products declines or governments adopt policies disadvantageous to beverage alcohol, our business could be adversely affected.Our ability to market and sell our products depends heavily on societal attitudes toward drinking and governmental policies that both flow from and affect those attitudes. In recent years, there has been increased social and political attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry. The recent attention has focused largely on public health concerns related to alcohol abuse, including drunk driving, underage drinking, and the negative health impacts of the abuse and misuse of beverage alcohol. While most people who drink enjoy alcoholic beverages in moderation, it is commonly known and well reported that excessive levels or inappropriate patterns of drinking can lead to increased risk of a myriad of health conditions and, for certain people, can result in alcohol dependence. The alcohol industry critics in the United States, Europe and other countries around the world increasingly seek governmental measures to make beverage alcohol products more expensive, less available, and/or more difficult to advertise and promote. If future research indicated more widespread serious health risks associated with alcohol consumption - particularly with moderate consumption - or if for any reason the social acceptability of beverage alcohol were to decline significantly, sales of our products could decrease.10Table of ContentsWe face substantial competition in our industry, and consolidation among beverage alcohol producers, wholesalers or retailers, or changes to our route-to-consumer model, could hinder the marketing, sale and distribution of our products.We use different business models to market and distribute our products in different countries around the world. In the United States, we sell our products either to distributors for resale to retail outlets or, in those states that control alcohol sales, to state governments who then sell them to retail customers and consumers. In our non-U.S. markets, we use a variety of route-to-consumer models - including, in many markets, reliance on others to market and sell our products. Consolidation among spirits producers, distributors, wholesalers or retailers could create a more challenging competitive landscape for our products.  In addition, it could hinder the distribution and sale of our products as a result of reduced attention and resources allocated to our brands both during transition periods and after, as our brands might represent a smaller portion of the new business portfolio. Expansion into new product categories by other suppliers, or innovation by new entrants into the market could increase competition for our products. Changes to our route-to-consumer partner or method in important markets could result in temporary or longer-term sales disruption, could result in implementation-related or higher fixed costs, and could negatively impact other business relationships we might have with that partner. Distribution network disruption and/or fluctuations in our product inventory levels at distributors, wholesalers, or retailers could negatively affect our results for a particular period. Further, while we believe that our size relative to that of our competitors currently gives us sufficient scale to succeed, we nevertheless face a risk that a continuing consolidation of the large beverage alcohol companies could put us at a competitive disadvantage.Our competitors may respond to industry and economic conditions more rapidly or effectively than we do. Other suppliers, as well as wholesalers and retailers of our brands, offer products that compete directly with ours for shelf space, promotional displays, and consumer purchases. Pricing (including price promotions, discounting, couponing and free goods), marketing, new product introductions, entry into our distribution networks, and other competitive behavior by other suppliers, and by wholesalers and retailers who sell their products against ours, could adversely affect our sales, margins, and profitability. While we seek to take advantage of the efficiencies and opportunities that large retail customers can offer, large retail customers often seek lower pricing, purchase volume flexibility, and to represent a large number of competing products. If their leverage continues to increase, it could negatively impact our financial results.We might not succeed in our strategies for acquisitions and dispositions.From time to time, we acquire or invest in additional brands or businesses. We expect to continue to seek acquisition and investment opportunities that we believe will increase long-term shareholder value, but we may not be able to find and purchase brands or businesses at acceptable prices and terms. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including potential difficulties integrating acquired brands and personnel; the possible loss of key customers and/or employees most knowledgeable about the acquired business; implementing and maintaining consistent U.S. public company standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; exposure to unknown liabilities; business disruption; and management distraction. Acquisitions, investments or joint ventures could also lead us to incur additional debt and related interest expenses, issue additional shares, and become exposed to contingent liabilities, as well as lead to dilution in our earnings per share and reduction in our return on average invested capital. We could incur future restructuring charges or record impairment losses on the value of goodwill and/or other intangible assets resulting from previous acquisitions, which may also negatively affect our financial results.We also evaluate from time-to-time the potential disposition of assets or businesses that may no longer meet our growth, return and/or strategic objectives. In selling assets or businesses, we may not get a price or terms as favorable as we anticipated. We could also encounter difficulty in finding buyers on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay our accomplishment of strategic objectives. Expected cost savings from reduced overhead relating to the sold assets may not materialize, and the overhead reductions could temporarily disrupt our other business operations. Any of these outcomes could hurt our financial performance.Inadequate protection of our intellectual property rights, counterfeiting, product tampering, or product recalls could adversely affect our business prospects.Our brand names, trademarks, and related intellectual property rights are critical assets, and our business depends on our successful protection of them. We devote substantial resources to protecting our intellectual property rights around the world, and consistently challenge those who imitate our products. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights are legally protected in the markets in which we do business, the ability to register and enforce intellectual property rights varies greatly from country to country. We cannot be certain that trademark registrations in our favor will be issued in every country in which we wish to sell a particular product or that protective decisions by courts or trademark offices will be in our favor.Many global spirits brands, including ours, experience problems with product counterfeiting and other forms of trademark infringement, especially in Asia and Eastern European markets. We work cooperatively with other spirits industry leaders via our membership in the International Federation of Spirits Producers (IFSP) to combat spirits counterfeiting. While we believe the IFSP generally to be an effective organization, IFSP efforts are subject to cooperation with local authorities and courts in some 11Table of Contentsmarkets. Despite our and IFSP’s efforts, confusingly similar, lower quality, or even counterfeit product that is harmful to consumers could reach the market and adversely affect our intellectual property rights, brand equity, corporate reputation, and/or financial results. In addition, the industry as a whole could suffer negative effects related to the manufacture, sale and consumption of illegally produced beverage alcohol.Sales of one or more of our products also could diminish due to a scare over product tampering or contamination. Actual contamination, whether deliberate or accidental, could lead to inferior product quality and even illness, injury or death to consumers, potential liability claims and material loss. Should a product recall become necessary, or we voluntarily recall product in the event of contamination, damage, or other quality issue, sales of the affected product or our broader portfolio of brands could be adversely affected. A significant product liability judgment or widespread product recall may negatively impact the sales and profitability of the affected brand or brands for a period of time depending on product availability, competitive reaction and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, resulting negative publicity could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image.Litigation and legal disputes could expose our business to financial and reputational risk.Major private or governmental litigation challenging the production, promotion, distribution or sale of beverage alcohol or specific brands, could affect our ability to sell products. Because litigation and other legal proceedings can be costly to defend, even actions that are ultimately decided in our favor could have a negative impact on our business reputation or financial results.  Several years ago, a series of putative class action cases was filed against several beverage alcohol companies, including Brown-Forman, alleging that large producers intentionally focused advertising and promotion at under-age consumers. All of the cases were either dismissed or withdrawn at early stages - but only after considerable effort and expense. Other lawsuits have been brought against beverage alcohol companies alleging problems related to alcohol abuse, negative health consequences from drinking, problems from alleged marketing or sales practices, or underage drinking. While these lawsuits have been largely unsuccessful in the past, others may succeed in the future. We could also experience employment-related class actions, environmental claims, commercial disputes, product liability actions stemming from a beverage or container production defect, a whistleblower suit, or other major litigation that could adversely affect our business results, particularly to the extent the losses or expenses were not insurable or insured.Governmental actions around the world to enforce trade practice, anti-corruption, competition, tax, environmental and other laws are also a continuing risk for global companies such as ours. In addition, as a U.S. public company we are exposed to the risk of shareholder class action suits, particularly following a precipitous drop in the share price of our stock. Adverse developments in major lawsuits concerning these or other matters could have a material adverse effect on our business.A failure of one or more of our key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on our business.We rely on information technology (IT) systems, networks, and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools, hardware (including laptops and mobile devices), software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-parties or their vendors, to assist us in the management of our business. The various uses of these IT systems, networks, and services include, but are not limited to: hosting our internal network and communication systems; ordering and managing materials from suppliers; supply/demand planning; production; shipping product to customers; hosting our branded websites and marketing products to consumers; collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor, and other data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing, and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans, and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processes necessary to manage our business.Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated cyber crime pose a potential risk to the security of our IT systems, networks, and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. If the IT systems, networks, or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or if we suffer a loss or disclosure of business or other sensitive information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations and reputational, competitive and/or business harm, which may adversely affect our business operations and/or financial condition.  In addition, such events could result in unauthorized disclosure of material confidential information, and we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, our employees, customers, suppliers or consumers. In any of these events, we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and IT systems.Negative publicity could affect our stock price and business performance.Unfavorable media related to our industry, company, brands, marketing, personnel, operations, business performance, or 12Table of Contentsprospects could negatively affect our corporate reputation, stock price, ability to attract high quality talent, and/or the performance of our business, regardless of its accuracy or inaccuracy. Adverse publicity or negative commentary on social media outlets could cause consumers to avoid our brands and/or choose brands offered by our competitors, which could negatively affect our financial results.Our failure to attract or retain key executive or employee talent could adversely affect our business.Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management team, other key employees, and a high-quality employee base, as well as our ability to attract, motivate, reward, and retain them. Difficulties in hiring or retaining key executive or employee talent, or the unexpected loss of experienced employees could have an adverse impact our business performance. In addition, we could experience business disruption and/or increased costs related to organizational changes, reductions in workforce, or other cost-cutting measures.Item 1B