Item 1A.  Risk Factors

You should carefully consider the following factors that could materially affect
our  business.  There are also other risks that are not  presently  known or not
presently  material,  as well as the other information set forth in this report,
which could affect materially our business. In addition, in our periodic filings
with the SEC,  press  releases and other  statements,  we discuss  estimates and
projections   regarding  our  future  performance  and  business  outlook.  Such
"forward-looking  statements," by their nature, involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors that in some cases are out of our control. These
factors could cause our actual results to differ  materially from our historical
experience  or our present  expectations  and  projections.  The  following is a
non-exclusive discussion of such risks and uncertainties.

OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN THE
UNITED STATES AND ABROAD.

Our business is subject to changes in global economic conditions. Just over half
of our business is in the United States,  and our business  prospects  generally
depend  heavily on the health of the U.S.  economy.  Earnings could be adversely
affected by lower consumer confidence,  decreased bar, hotel and travel spending
resulting from terrorist attacks and related  subsequent  events,  major natural
disasters,  widespread  outbreak of infectious diseases such as avian influenza,
other hostile acts, retaliation, or threats of any of these. Earnings could also
be hurt by the United States'  current war in Iraq, or if the United States goes
to war against another country deemed to be harboring  terrorists or otherwise a
threat to U.S. interests.

If  global  economic  conditions  deteriorate,  or if  there is an  increase  in
anti-American  sentiment  in the  principal  countries  to which we  export  our
beverage products,  including the United Kingdom,  Australia,  Poland,  Germany,
Mexico,  South  Africa,  Spain,  France,  Canada  and  Japan,  our  sales  could
materially decrease. The long-term outlook for our beverage business anticipates
continued  success  of  Jack  Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey,   Southern  Comfort,
Finlandia Vodka, and our other core wine and spirits brands.  This assumption is
based in part on  favorable  demographic  trends in the  United  States and many
international markets for the sale of wine and spirits. Current expectations for
our global beverage business may not be met if these  demographic  trends do not
translate into corresponding sales increases.

OUR  INTERNATIONAL  OPERATIONS  SUBJECT  US TO  RISKS  ASSOCIATED  WITH  FOREIGN
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES.

Sales of our brands and our  purchases  of goods and  services in  international
markets  are  conducted  in local  currency.  Thus,  profits  from our  overseas
business  could be adversely  affected if the U.S.  dollar  strengthens  against
other  currencies,  especially the British Pound,  Euro,  Australian  Dollar and
Mexican Peso,  because the local currency received from the sale of our products
would  translate  into  fewer  U.S.  dollars.  To the  extent  we are  unable to
effectively manage our exposure to such fluctuations,  our financial results may
suffer.

RISING ENERGY COSTS COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.

If energy costs remain high,  our  transportation,  freight and other  operating
costs,  such as  distilling,  will likely  increase.  We may not be able to pass
along such cost increases to our customers through higher prices.  Additionally,
rising  energy  costs may  diminish  consumer  confidence  generally  or curtail
consumer spending on entertainment and discretionary products, thereby resulting
in decreased demand for our brands.

                                       5


DEMAND FOR OUR  PRODUCTS  MAY BE  ADVERSELY  AFFECTED  BY  CHANGES  IN  CONSUMER
PREFERENCES AND TASTES.

We operate in a highly  competitive  marketplace.  Maintaining  our  competitive
position  depends on our continued  ability to offer products that have a strong
appeal to consumers. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors,
including  changes in demographic  and social trends,  and changes in dining and
beverage  consumption  patterns,  as they have from time to time in the past. In
addition,  sales of a brand  might  diminish  because  of a scare  over  product
contamination or some other negative publicity regarding the brand. If a product
recall becomes necessary, that also could adversely affect our business.

NATIONAL AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS OR UNDERTAKE INVESTIGATIONS
THAT COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS OR OUR  LIABILITIES,  OR THAT COULD LIMIT OUR WINE
AND SPIRITS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.

Our  operations  are  subject to  extensive  regulatory  requirements  regarding
advertising,   marketing,  labeling,   distribution  and  production.  Legal  or
regulatory   measures  against  beverage  alcohol  could  adversely  affect  our
business.  In particular,  governmental bodies in countries where we operate may
impose or increase  limitations on advertising  and promotional  activities,  or
adopt  other  non-tariff  measures  that  could  hurt our  sales.  In  addition,
particularly  in the United States,  state and federal  officials in some states
have  begun   investigating  trade  practices  of  beverage  alcohol  suppliers,
distributors  and  retailers.  Adverse  developments  in or as a result of these
regulatory measures and investigations or similar  investigations could hurt our
business.

TAX INCREASES COULD HURT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.

The wine and spirits business is highly sensitive to changes in taxes. Increases
in state or federal excise taxes in the U.S. could depress our domestic wine and
spirits business,  both through reducing overall  consumption and by encouraging
consumers  to  switch  to  lower-taxed   categories  of  beverage  alcohol.   No
legislation  to increase  U.S.  federal  excise  taxes on  distilled  spirits is
currently pending, but future increases are possible, as are taxes levied on the
broader business community.  Tax rates also affect the beverage alcohol business
outside the United States, but the effect of those changes in any one country is
less  likely  to be  significant  to our  overall  business.  Nevertheless,  the
cumulative  effect of such tax  increases  over time  could  hurt our  financial
performance.

IF THE SOCIAL  ACCEPTABILITY  OF OUR  PRODUCTS  DECLINES  OR  GOVERNMENTS  ADOPT
POLICIES AGAINST BEVERAGE ALCOHOL,  OUR REVENUES COULD DECREASE AND OUR BUSINESS
COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

Our ability to market and sell our alcohol beverage  products depends heavily on
both society's  attitudes  toward drinking and  governmental  policies that flow
from those  attitudes.  In recent  years,  there has been  increased  social and
political  attention  directed  at the  beverage  alcohol  industry.  The recent
attention  has  focused  largely on public  health  concerns  related to alcohol
abuse, including drunk driving,  underage drinking, and health consequences from
the misuse of beverage alcohol. Alcohol critics in the U.S. and Europe and other
countries  around the world  increasingly  seek  governmental  measures  to make
beverage alcohol more expensive, less available, and more difficult to advertise
and promote.  If the social  acceptability  of beverage  alcohol were to decline
significantly,  sales of our products could materially decrease. Our sales would
also suffer if governments sought to ban or restrict  advertising or promotional
activities,  to limit  hours or  places  of sale,  or took  other  actions  that
discourage alcohol consumption.

                                       6


LITIGATION  RELATING TO ALCOHOL  ABUSE AND  ILLEGAL  ALCOHOL  CONSUMPTION  COULD
ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS.

A number of beverage alcohol producers have been sued over allegations  relating
to their advertising  practices. A law firm has filed nine class action lawsuits
against several spirits,  beer, and wine manufacturers,  including us. The suits
allege that our marketing causes illegal consumption of alcohol by persons under
the legal drinking age. To date, the first six courts to consider those lawsuits
have dismissed them and two cases have been  withdrawn  voluntarily.  Plaintiffs
have  appealed  the  six  involuntary  dismissals.  (One of the  dismissals  was
affirmed in June 2007.) We dispute the  allegations in these lawsuits and intend
to continue to defend these cases vigorously.  However,  adverse developments in
these or similar  lawsuits could  materially hurt our beverage  business and the
overall industry.

OUR WINE OR TEQUILA BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY PRODUCTION COSTS.

Our California-based  wine operations have entered into long-term contracts with
various   growers  and   wineries  to  supply   portions  of  our  future  grape
requirements.  Most of the contracts  call for prices to be determined  based on
market  conditions,  within a certain range, and most of the contracts also have
minimum  tonnage  requirements.   Although  these  contracts  may  provide  some
protection  in times of  rising  grape  prices,  the  contracts  may  result  in
above-market costs during times of declining prices.  Likewise, our Mexico-based
tequila  operations  have entered into  long-term  contracts with land owners in
regions  where blue agave can be grown.  Most of these  contracts  require us to
plant,  maintain,  and harvest the agave,  plus  compensate  the owners based on
specified  percentages of the crop at the prevailing market price at the time of
harvest.   Instability  in  agave  market  conditions  could  cause  us  to  pay
above-market costs for some of the agave we use to produce tequila. There can be
no assurances as to the future  prevailing  market prices for grapes or agave or
our ability, relative to our competitors, to take advantage of changes in market
prices.

CONSOLIDATION  AMONG OR POOR  PERFORMANCE  BY SPIRITS  PRODUCERS,  WHOLESALER OR
RETAILERS COULD HINDER THE MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS.

We use a number  of  different  business  models to market  and  distribute  our
products.  However,  we rely on other spirits producers to distribute and market
our products in some  international  markets.  In the United States, we sell our
products to wholesalers  through the mandatory  three-tier system.  Distributor,
wholesaler and retailer  consolidations have not in the past negatively affected
our business.  Nevertheless,  consolidation  among spirits producers overseas or
wholesalers in the United States could hinder the  distribution  of our products
as a result of reduced attention and resource  allocation to our brands,  due to
our brands  representing a smaller  portion of their business  and/or a changing
competitive environment.

                                       7


OUR  ACQUISITION  STRATEGIES AND  INTEGRATION OF ACQUIRED  BUSINESSES MAY NOT BE
SUCCESSFUL.

From time to time,  we  acquire  additional  businesses  that we believe to be a
strategic  fit,  such as our recent  purchases of the Casa  Herradura  business,
Chambord  Liqueur and the  remainder  of Don  Eduardo.  Integration  of acquired
businesses  and personnel into our existing  operations,  and bringing them into
conformity with our trade practice standards,  financial control environment and
U.S. public company requirements,  may prove difficult,  may involve significant
expenses  and  management  time and  attention,  and may  otherwise  disrupt our
business.  Our ability to grow the volumes and  maintain or increase  the profit
margins on these brands,  especially in the U.S. or Mexico, will be important to
our future performance.  Additionally,  business  acquisitions such as these may
expose  us to  unknown  liabilities,  the  possible  loss of key  customers  and
employees  knowledgeable about the acquired business,  and risks associated with
doing business in countries or regions with less stable  governments,  political
climates, legal systems and/or economies, among other risks.

TERMINATION OF OUR RIGHTS TO DISTRIBUTE AND MARKET AGENCY BRANDS INCLUDED IN OUR
PORTFOLIO COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

In  addition  to the brands our  company  owns,  we also  market and  distribute
products on behalf of other brand owners in selected markets, including the U.S.
Our rights to sell these agency  brands are based on contracts  with the various
brand owners, which have varying lengths, renewal terms, termination rights, and
other  provisions.  We earn a margin for these sales and also gain  distribution
cost efficiencies in some instances. Therefore, the termination of our rights to
distribute  agency brands included in our portfolio  could adversely  affect our
business.

COUNTERFEIT  PRODUCTION OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY RIGHTS, BRAND EQUITY AND OPERATING RESULTS.

The  beverage   alcohol   industry  is   experiencing   problems   with  product
counterfeiting and other forms of trademark infringement,  especially within the
Asian and Eastern European markets.  Given our dependence on brand  recognition,
we devote substantial resources on a worldwide basis to protect our intellectual
property  rights.  In  addition,  we have taken  steps to reduce the  ability of
others to  imitate  our  products.  Although  we believe  that our  intellectual
property  rights are legally  supported  in the markets in which we do business,
the protection afforded intellectual property rights varies greatly from country
to country.  Confusingly  similar,  lower quality or even dangerous  counterfeit
product could reach the market and adversely  affect our  intellectual  property
rights, brand equity and/or operating results.


Item 1B