Item 1A.  Risk Factors

You should  carefully  consider the risk factors  described below and throughout
this report,  which could materially  affect our business.  There are also risks
that are not  presently  known or not presently  material,  as well as the other
information set forth in this report that could materially  affect our business.
In addition,  in our periodic  filings  with the SEC,  press  releases and other
statements,   we  discuss   estimates  and  projections   regarding  our  future
performance  and  business  outlook.  By  their  nature,  such  "forward-looking
statements"  involve known and unknown  risks,  uncertainties  and other factors
that in some cases are out of our control.  These factors could cause our actual
results  to  differ  materially  from  our  historical  results  or our  present
expectations and projections.  These risk factors and uncertainties include, but
are not limited to:

PROLONGED  CONTINUATION  OR FURTHER  DETERIORATION  OF THE  ECONOMIC  DECLINE OR
CREDIT  MARKET  CRISIS  COULD  NEGATIVELY  AFFECT  OUR  OPERATIONS  AND  RESULTS
SIGNIFICANTLY.

Our business  and  financial  results will  continue to be affected by worldwide
economic conditions. The current global recession and market turmoil have led to
a widespread reduction of business activity in general.  Consumer confidence and
spending have decreased  dramatically and remain down significantly.  Liquidity,
including both business and consumer credit, has contracted in a number of major
markets.  Unemployment  rates have increased  significantly in the U.S. and many
other  countries.  Many spirits and wine  consumers  have "traded  down" to less
expensive  products and to drinking  occasions and venues less favorable to some
of our premium and  super-premium  products.  Some large retailers and consumers
are refusing to accept even moderate product price  increases.  Distributors and
retailers have reduced their levels of beverage alcohol inventory.

It is difficult to  determine  the ultimate  breadth and duration of the current
global  economic and financial  market  problems and the many ways in which they
may affect our business  going forward.  For example,  the recession may lead to
higher  interest  rates,  significant  changes in the rate of  inflation  (up or
down), and/or lower returns on pension assets (requiring higher contributions to
pension plans).  Our suppliers,  customers and consumers  could  experience cash
flow problems, credit defaults, and other financial hardships.  Further, even as
the economy picks back up, consumers may continue to curtail spending, make more
value-driven and price-sensitive  purchasing choices,  and more at-home drinking
occasions rather than at restaurants and bars. In sum, in a variety of different
manifestations, these difficult and uncertain economic conditions or a deepening
or expansion of them could have  significant  adverse  effects on our  business,
financial  position and results of operations,  as could the continuation of one
or more of the related trends noted above.

OUR GLOBAL GROWTH IS SUBJECT TO A NUMBER OF COMMERCIAL AND POLITICAL RISKS.

We  currently  market  products in more than 135  countries.  In addition to the
United States, significant markets for us include the United Kingdom, Australia,
Mexico,  Poland,  Germany,  France,  Spain,  Italy, South Africa,  China, Japan,
Canada,  and Russia. We expect our future growth rates in international  markets
to surpass  our growth in the U.S.  Emerging  markets,  such as Eastern  Europe,
Latin America, and Asia, as well as countries that some companies might consider
to be  developed  markets,  such as France and  Australia,  provide  significant
growth opportunities for us.

If there is an increase in anti-American sentiment in the principal countries to
which we export  our  beverage  products,  our  global  business  could  suffer.
Potentially unstable governments or legal systems,  intergovernmental  disputes,
military   conflicts,   local   labor   conditions   and   business   practices,
nationalizations,  inflation,  recession, pandemics, terrorist activities, U. S.
laws regulating  activities of U.S. companies abroad, and laws,  regulations and
policies of foreign governments,  are also risks due to the global nature of our
business.  These and other political,  commercial and economic  uncertainties in
our various  markets around the world may have a material  adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and future growth prospects.

The longer-term outlook for our business  anticipates  continued success of Jack
Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey,   Southern  Comfort,   Finlandia  Vodka,   Tequila
Herradura,  el Jimador  Tequila,  and our other  spirits and wine  brands.  This
assumption is based in part on favorable demographic trends for the sale of wine
and  spirits in the  United  States  and many of our  global  markets.  If these
demographic trends do not translate into corresponding  sales increases,  we may
fail to meet our growth expectations.

FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS AFFECT OUR RESULTS.

We sell our  products and pay for goods and  services in  international  markets
primarily  in local  currency.  Since we sell more in local  currencies  than we
purchase,  we have a net  exposure  to changes in the value of the U.S.  dollar.
Thus,  profits from our overseas  businesses would be adversely  affected if the
U.S.  dollar  strengthens   against  other  currencies  in  our  major  markets,
especially the British pound,  euro,  Australian dollar, and Polish zloty. As we
increasingly  expand  our  business  globally,   the  effect  of  exchange  rate
fluctuations  on our  financial  results  increases.  To buffer this effect,  we
regularly hedge a portion of our currency exposure.  Nevertheless, over time our
reported  financial results generally will be hurt by a stronger U.S. dollar and
helped by a weaker one. For fiscal 2010, due to the significant strengthening of
the U.S. dollar in fiscal 2009 and based on the currency hedges we have in place
for this fiscal year, we anticipate that our financial results will be adversely
affected in comparison to our fiscal 2009 results.

HIGHER COSTS OR  UNAVAILABILITY  OF INPUT  MATERIALS  COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL
RESULTS, AS COULD OUR INABILITY TO OBTAIN CERTAIN FINISHED GOODS.

If energy costs rise, our  transportation,  freight and other  operating  costs,
such as distilling and bottling, will likely increase.  Similarly,  higher costs
for grain,  grapes,  agave,  wood,  glass,  plastic,  closures  and other  input
materials  and/or  associated  labor costs  would  likely  adversely  affect our
financial results, since we may not be able to pass along such cost increases to
our customers through higher prices.

Our products use a number of materials  and  ingredients  that we purchase  from
third-party  suppliers.  Our  ability  to make our  products  hinges  on  having
available all of the raw materials,  ingredients,  bottle  closures,  packaging,
bottles,  cans, and other  materials  used to produce and package them;  without
sufficient  quantities of one or more key input  materials,  our  operations and
financial  results could suffer.  For instance,  only a few glass producers make
bottles  on a scale  sufficient  for our  requirements;  and a  single  producer
(Owens-Illinois) supplies most of our glass container requirements. Similarly, a
Finnish  corporation (Altia plc) distills and bottles our Finlandia products for
us pursuant to an exclusive long-term supply agreement. If Owens-Illinois, Altia
or another of our key suppliers were no longer able to meet our timing,  quality
or capacity requirements, ceased doing business with us, or increased its prices
and we could not  develop  alternative  cost-effective  sources of  supply,  our
operations  and  financial  results could be adversely  affected.  Additionally,
rising  energy  and  other  costs  may  further  curtail  consumer  spending  on
entertainment  and  discretionary  products,   thereby  resulting  in  decreased
purchases of our brands.

DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS MAY DECREASE DUE TO CHANGES IN CONSUMER  PREFERENCES  OR
OTHER FACTORS.

We operate in a highly  competitive  marketplace.  Maintaining  our  competitive
position  depends on our continued  ability to offer products that have a strong
appeal to consumers. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors,
including  changes in  demographic  and social  trends and changes in dining and
beverage  consumption  patterns,  as they have from time to time in the past. If
consumer  preferences  were to move away from our  premium  brands in any of our
major markets, or from our ready-to-drink products, particularly Jack Daniel's &
Cola in Australia (its largest market) or New Mix, the el Jimador  tequila-based
ready-to-drink  product  we sell in  Mexico,  our  financial  results  might  be
adversely affected. New product offerings,  brand line extensions, and packaging
changes by both us and our competitors will increasingly  compete for consumers;
our inability to attract consumers relative to our competitors likely would have
a negative  effect our business  performance  and  financial  results over time.
Other factors may also reduce consumer  spending on our products,  including the
recessionary  economic  environment,  a lasting  consumer trend toward frugality
even as the economy improves,  wars,  pandemics,  natural disasters or terrorist
attacks, to name a few.

NATIONAL AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS OR UNDERTAKE INVESTIGATIONS
THAT COULD INCREASE OUR EXPENSES OR LIMIT OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.

Our  operations  are  subject to  extensive  regulatory  requirements  regarding
advertising,   marketing,  labeling,   distribution  and  production.  Legal  or
regulatory   measures  against  beverage  alcohol  could  adversely  affect  our
business.  In particular,  governmental bodies in countries where we operate may
impose or increase  limitations on advertising  and promotional  activities,  or
adopt other  non-tariff  measures that could hurt our sales.  In addition,  from
time to time  national  and state  governments  investigate  business  and trade
practices of beverage alcohol suppliers,  distributors and retailers,  including
specific beverage alcohol trade regulations,  the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act and similar laws in other countries.  Adverse developments in or as a result
of these or similar regulatory  measures and governmental  investigations  could
hurt our business and financial results.

TAX  INCREASES  AND CHANGES IN TAX RULES COULD  ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR  FINANCIAL
RESULTS.

The wine and spirits  business is  sensitive  to changes in taxes.  As a company
based in the United States,  Brown-Forman  is more exposed to the effects of the
various forms of tax  increases in the U.S. than most of our major  competitors,
especially  those  that  affect  the net  effective  corporate  income tax rate.
President  Obama's 2009 budget proposal and various tax changes under discussion
in Congress exemplify this risk; they include repealing LIFO (last-in, first-out
treatment of inventory), decreasing or eliminating the ability of U.S. companies
to receive a tax credit for foreign taxes paid or to defer the U.S. deduction of
expenses in connection with investments made in other countries,  and increasing
the tax on dividends and capital gains.

Increases  in federal or state excise  taxes or other U.S.  tax  increases  also
could materially depress our financial results,  both by reducing consumption of
our  products  and by  encouraging  consumers  to  switch  to  lower-priced  and
lower-taxed  product  categories.  While no legislation to increase U.S. federal
excise taxes on distilled spirits is currently pending, excise tax increases are
possible,  as are further  increases to other federal tax burdens imposed on the
broader  business  community  and  consumers.  Particularly  in  this  depressed
economy,  numerous municipal and state governments may also increase tax burdens
to cover budget  deficits and compensate for declines in other revenue  sources.
For  instance,  in April 2009  Kentucky,  where our corporate  headquarters  are
located,  imposed a 6% sales tax on sales of wine and spirits products.  Several
large  states and many more  municipalities  have  various tax  increases  under
consideration  that could adversely  affect our business and/or consumers of our
products. New tax rules, accounting standards or pronouncements,  and changes in
interpretation of existing ones, could also have a significant adverse effect on
our business and financial results.

The  global  economic  downturn  has  increased  our  tax-related  risks in many
countries in which we do business. Increases in tax rates, such as income taxes,
excise taxes,  value added taxes,  import and export  duties,  tariff  barriers,
and/or related local governmental economic protectionism, and the suddenness and
unpredictability  with which  these can occur,  can also  negatively  affect our
business.  For example,  in April 2008 the  Australian  government  unexpectedly
imposed,  with  immediate  effect,  a 70% excise tax  increase on  spirits-based
ready-to-drink   products.   Although  we  successfully   shifted  some  of  our
ready-to-drink  sales in this market to our regular  proof  products and changed
the  ready-to-drink  formula  to a less  tax-penalized  one,  this tax  increase
adversely affected our Australian business and overall financial results.

IF THE SOCIAL  ACCEPTABILITY  OF OUR  PRODUCTS  DECLINES  OR  GOVERNMENTS  ADOPT
POLICIES  DISADVANTAGEOUS TO BEVERAGE ALCOHOL,  OUR BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY
ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

Our ability to market and sell our  products  depends  heavily on both  societal
attitudes  toward  drinking  and  governmental  policies  that flow  from  those
attitudes.  In recent  years,  there has been  increased  social  and  political
attention  directed at the beverage alcohol  industry.  The recent attention has
focused  largely on public health concerns  related to alcohol abuse,  including
drunk driving,  underage  drinking,  and health  consequences from the abuse and
misuse of  beverage  alcohol.  Alcohol  critics  in the U.S.,  Europe  and other
countries  around the world  increasingly  seek  governmental  measures  to make
beverage alcohol products more expensive,  less available, and more difficult to
advertise and promote.  If the social  acceptability of beverage alcohol were to
decline  significantly,  sales of our products could  materially  decrease.  Our
sales would also suffer if governments sought to ban or restrict  advertising or
promotional activities, to limit hours or places of sale or consumption, or took
other  actions that  discourage  alcohol  purchase or  consumption,  which could
adversely affect our business and financial results.

LITIGATION COULD EXPOSE OUR BUSINESS TO FINANCIAL AND REPUTATIONAL RISK.

In the United States and other  litigious  countries in  particular,  private or
governmental  lawsuits are a continuing risk to our business,  including but not
limited to lawsuits  relating to labor and employment  practices,  environmental
impact, taxes, trade and business practices, intellectual property and antitrust
matters.  Several  years ago, a series of putative  class action  lawsuits  were
filed against spirits,  beer, and wine  manufacturers,  including Brown- Forman,
alleging that our marketing caused illegal alcohol  consumption by persons under
the legal drinking age. All of the cases were either  dismissed or withdrawn and
the litigation was concluded in 2007.  However,  other lawsuits  attacking sales
and marketing practices of beverage alcohol producers,  wholesalers or retailers
could hurt our financial results and business, and the entire industry.

PRODUCTION COST INCREASES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

Our Mexico-based  tequila operations have entered into long-term  contracts with
land owners in regions where blue agave (the primary raw material in tequila) is
grown.  Most of these contracts require us to plant,  maintain,  and harvest the
agave,  and to  compensate  the land owners  pursuant  to formulas  based on the
prevailing  market price for agave at the time of harvest.  Instability in agave
market  conditions  could  cause us to pay  above-market  prices for some of the
agave we use to produce tequila.  Likewise, our California-based wine operations
have  entered into  long-term  contracts  with  various  growers and wineries to
supply portions of our future grape requirements. Most of the contracts call for
prices to be determined based on market conditions,  within a certain range, and
most of the contracts  also have minimum  tonnage  requirements.  Although these
contracts  may provide  some  protection  in times of rising grape  prices,  the
contracts  may result in  above-market  costs during times of declining  prices.
There can be no assurances as to the future  prevailing market prices for agave,
grapes, or our other input materials, including grain, glass, wood, plastic, and
closures,  or our ability,  relative to our  competitors,  to take  advantage of
changes in market  prices  for them.  Weather,  changes  in climate  conditions,
diseases,  and other  agricultural  uncertainties  that  affect  the  mortality,
health,  yield,  quality or price of the  various  raw  materials  we use in our
products also present risks for our business,  including potential impairment in
the recorded value of our inventory.

CONSOLIDATION AMONG, CHANGES IN, INCREASED COMPETITION BY OR POOR PERFORMANCE BY
SPIRITS PRODUCERS, WHOLESALERS OR RETAILERS COULD HINDER THE MARKETING, SALE AND
DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS.

We use a number  of  different  business  models to market  and  distribute  our
products in  different  regions of the world.  In the United  States we sell our
products  either to  wholesale  distributors  or, in those  states that  control
alcohol  sales,  to state  governments  who then  sell to retail  customers  and
consumers.  In our other global markets,  we use a variety of  route-to-consumer
models,  including in many markets reliance on other spirits producers to market
and  sell  our  products.  Although  to date it has  happened  rarely,  if ever,
consolidation  among spirits  producers  overseas or  wholesalers  in the United
States  could  hinder the  distribution  and sale of our products as a result of
reduced  attention  and  resources  allocated  to our brands  during  transition
periods,  the possibility that our brands may represent a smaller portion of the
new business,  and/or a changing competitive  environment.  Also, changes to our
route-to-consumer  partner in important  markets could result in temporary sales
disruption.  Further,  while we believe  that our size  relative  to that of our
competitors  gives us sufficient scale to succeed,  we nevertheless  face a risk
that a continuing  consolidation of the large beverage  alcohol  companies could
put us at a competitive disadvantage.

Retailers and  wholesalers  of our brands offer  products that compete  directly
with ours for shelf space, promotional displays and consumer purchases.  Pricing
(including price promotions,  discounting,  couponing or free goods), marketing,
new product introductions and other competitive behavior by other suppliers, and
by distributors and retailers who sell their products against one or more of our
brands,  could also  adversely  affect our business and  financial  results.  In
recessionary times like these, consumers tend to be particularly price sensitive
and to make more of their  purchases  in discount  stores and other  off-premise
establishments.  Therefore,  the effects of these competitive  activities may be
more pronounced in this difficult economic climate.

WE MAY NOT SUCCEED IN OUR STRATEGIES FOR ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS.

From time to time,  we  acquire  additional  brands or  businesses,  such as our
purchases in 2006 and 2007 of Chambord Liqueur and the Casa Herradura  business.
We intend  to  continue  to seek  acquisitions  that we  believe  will  increase
long-term  shareholder  value, but we cannot assure that we will be able to find
and  purchase  businesses  at  acceptable  prices and  terms.  It may also prove
difficult to  integrate  acquired  businesses  and  personnel  into our existing
systems  and  operations,  and to bring  them  into  conformity  with our  trade
practice  standards,  financial  control  environment  and U.S.  public  company
requirements.  Integration may involve significant  expenses and management time
and attention, and may otherwise disrupt our business. Our ability to profitably
grow sales of the brands we acquire will be important to our future performance.
For instance,  our  expectations  for future profit  contribution  from the main
brands we purchased in the Casa Herradura business depend on our ability to grow
the  Herradura and el Jimador  brands in the U.S. and other key tequila  markets
around the world.

Brand or business  acquisitions also may expose us to unknown  liabilities,  the
possible loss of key customers  and employees  knowledgeable  about the acquired
business,  and risks associated with doing business in countries or regions with
less stable governments, political climates, and legal systems and/or economies,
among other risks.  Acquisitions could also lead us to incur additional debt and
related  interest  expenses,  issue  additional  shares,  and become  exposed to
contingent  liabilities,  as well as to experience  dilution in our earnings per
share and a reduction  in our return on invested  capital.  We may incur  future
restructuring  charges or record  impairment losses on the value of goodwill and
or other intangible assets resulting from previous acquisitions,  which may also
adversely affect our financial results.

We also  evaluate  from  time-to-time  the  potential  disposition  of assets or
businesses  that  may  no  longer  meet  our  growth,  return  and/or  strategic
objectives.  In selling assets or businesses, we may not get a price or terms as
favorable  as we  anticipated.  We could also  encounter  difficulty  in finding
buyers  on  acceptable  terms  in  a  timely  manner,   which  could  delay  our
accomplishment  of  strategic  objectives.  Expected  cost  savings from reduced
overhead relating to the sold assets may not materialize.

COUNTERFEITING,  TAMPERING,  OR  CONTAMINATION  OF OUR  PRODUCTS  COULD HARM OUR
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS, AS WELL AS OUR REPUTATION.

The success of our branded  products relies  considerably on the image consumers
have of them. Consequently, our business depends on the successful protection of
our trademarks and other intellectual  property rights.  Given our dependence on
the recognition of our brands by, and their attraction to, consumers,  we devote
substantial  efforts to protect  our  intellectual  property  rights  around the
world.  In  addition,  we work to reduce the  ability  of others to imitate  our
products.  Although we believe that our intellectual property rights are legally
supported  in the  markets  in which we do  business,  the  protection  afforded
intellectual  property  rights  varies  greatly  from  country to  country.  The
beverage alcohol industry experiences  problems with product  counterfeiting and
other forms of trademark  infringement,  especially in Asia and Eastern European
markets.  Confusingly  similar,  lower  quality  or even  dangerous  counterfeit
product could reach the market and adversely  affect our  intellectual  property
rights, brand equity, corporate reputation and/or financial results.

Sales of a brand also could diminish  because of a scare over product  tampering
or contamination.  Actual contamination of our products or of raw materials used
to produce,  ferment or distill them,  whether  arising  deliberately by a third
party or accidentally,  could lead to inferior product quality and even illness,
injury or death to consumers. If a product recall became necessary, sales of the
affected product or our broader portfolio of brands could be adversely affected.

NEGATIVE PUBLICITY MAY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE AND BUSINESS PERFORMANCE.

Unfavorable media reports related to our company, brands, personnel, operations,
business performance or prospects may affect our stock price and the performance
of our business,  regardless  of their  accuracy or  inaccuracy.  Since we are a
branded consumer products company, adverse publicity can hurt both our company's
stock price and actual  operating  results,  as consumers  might steer away from
brands or products that receive bad press.

TERMINATION OF OUR RIGHTS TO DISTRIBUTE AND MARKET AGENCY BRANDS INCLUDED IN OUR
PORTFOLIO COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

In  addition  to the brands our  company  owns,  we also  market and  distribute
products on behalf of other brand owners in selected markets, including the U.S.
Our rights to sell these agency brands are based on contracts with various brand
owners, which have varying lengths, renewal terms, termination rights, and other
provisions.  We earn a margin for these  sales and also gain  distribution  cost
efficiencies  in some  instances.  Therefore,  the  termination of our rights to
distribute  agency brands included in our portfolio  could adversely  affect our
business.

Item 1B