Item 1A.  Risk Factors

You should carefully consider the following factors that could materially affect
our  business,  as well as the other  information  set forth in this report.  In
addition,  in our  periodic  filings  with the SEC,  press  releases  and  other
statements,   we  discuss   estimates  and  projections   regarding  our  future
performance and business outlook.  Such "forward-looking  statements",  by their
nature, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that in
some cases are out of our control.  These factors could cause our actual results
to differ materially from our historical  experience or our present expectations
and projections.  The following is a non-exclusive  discussion of such risks and
uncertainties.

                                       4


OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN THE
UNITED STATES AND ABROAD.

Our business is subject to changes in global  economic  conditions.  The bulk of
our business is in the United States and our business prospects generally depend
heavily on the health of the U.S. economy.  Earnings could be adversely affected
by lower  consumer  confidence  and  decreased  bar,  hotel and travel  spending
resulting from terrorist attacks and related  subsequent  events,  including the
U.S.  response,  major  natural  disasters,  widespread  outbreak of  infectious
diseases such as avian influenza, other hostile acts, retaliation, or threats of
any of these.  Earnings could also be hurt by the United States'  current war in
Iraq, or if the United States goes to war against  another  country deemed to be
harboring terrorists or otherwise a threat to U.S. interests.

If  global  economic  conditions  deteriorate,  or if  there is an  increase  in
anti-American  sentiment  in the  principal  countries  to which we  export  our
beverage  products,   including  the  United  Kingdom,  Germany,  Italy,  Spain,
Australia,  France,  Poland,  China,  and  Japan,  our  sales  could  materially
decrease.  The long-term outlook for our beverage business anticipates continued
success of Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey,  Southern Comfort,  Finlandia Vodka,
and our other core wine and spirits brands.  This assumption is based in part on
favorable demographic trends in the United States and many international markets
for the sale of wine and spirits.  Current  expectations for our global beverage
business  may not be met if  these  demographic  trends  do not  translate  into
corresponding sales increases.

OUR  INTERNATIONAL  OPERATIONS  SUBJECT  US TO  RISKS  ASSOCIATED  WITH  FOREIGN
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES.

Sales of our brands in  international  markets are conducted in local  currency.
Thus, profits from our overseas business could be adversely affected if the U.S.
dollar strengthens against other currencies,  especially the British Pound, Euro
and the Australian Dollar,  because the local currency received from the sale of
our  products  would  translate  into fewer U.S.  dollars.  To the extent we are
unable to effectively  manage our exposure to such  fluctuations,  our financial
results will likely suffer.

RISING ENERGY COSTS COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.

If  energy  costs  continue  to rise,  our  transportation,  freight  and  other
operating costs, such as distilling, will likely increase. We may not be able to
pass  along  such  cost  increases  to  our  customers  through  higher  prices.
Additionally,  rising  energy costs may diminish  consumer  confidence,  thereby
resulting in decreased demand for our brands.

                                       5


DEMAND FOR OUR  PRODUCTS  MAY BE  ADVERSELY  AFFECTED  BY  CHANGES  IN  CONSUMER
PREFERENCES AND TASTES.

We operate in a highly  competitive  marketplace.  Maintaining  our  competitive
position  depends on our continued  ability to offer products that have a strong
appeal to consumers. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors,
including  changes in demographic  and social trends,  and changes in dining and
beverage consumption  patterns, as might be indicated by recent published trends
suggesting  a  slight  reduction  in  the  growth  rate  of  distilled   spirits
consumption in the U.S. In addition,  sales of a brand might diminish because of
a scare over product  contamination or some other negative  publicity  regarding
the brand. If a product recall becomes necessary, that can affect our business.

NATIONAL AND LOCAL  GOVERNMENTS  MAY ADOPT  REGULATIONS  THAT COULD INCREASE OUR
COSTS OR OUR  LIABILITIES,  OR THAT COULD  LIMIT OUR WINE AND  SPIRITS  BUSINESS
ACTIVITIES.

Our  operations  are  subject to  extensive  regulatory  requirements  regarding
advertising,   marketing,  labeling,   distribution  and  production.  Legal  or
regulatory   measures  against  beverage  alcohol  could  adversely  affect  our
business.  In particular,  governmental bodies in countries where we operate may
impose or increase  limitations on advertising  and promotional  activities,  or
adopt other non-tariff measures that could hurt our sales.

TAX INCREASES COULD HURT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.

The wine and spirits business is highly sensitive to changes in taxes. Increases
in state or federal excise taxes in the U.S. would depress our domestic wine and
spirits business,  both through reducing overall  consumption and by encouraging
consumers  to  switch  to  lower-taxed   categories  of  beverage  alcohol.   No
legislation  to increase  U.S.  federal  excise  taxes on  distilled  spirits is
currently pending, but future increases are possible, as are taxes levied on the
broader business community.  Tax rates also affect the beverage alcohol business
outside the United States, but the impact of those changes in any one country is
less  likely  to be  significant  to our  overall  business.  Nevertheless,  the
cumulative  effect  of such  tax  increases  over  time  would  likely  hurt our
financial performance.

IF THE SOCIAL  ACCEPTABILITY  OF OUR  PRODUCTS  DECLINES  OR  GOVERNMENTS  ADOPT
POLICIES AGAINST BEVERAGE ALCOHOL,  OUR REVENUES COULD DECREASE AND OUR WINE AND
SPIRITS BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

Our ability to market and sell our alcohol beverage  products depends heavily on
both society's  attitudes  toward drinking and  governmental  policies that flow
from those  attitudes.  In recent  years,  there has been  increased  social and
political  attention  directed  at the  beverage  alcohol  industry.  The recent
attention  has focused  largely over public health  concerns  related to alcohol
abuse, including drunk driving,  underage drinking, and health consequences from
the  misuse  of  beverage  alcohol.  Alcohol  critics  in the  U.S.  and  Europe
increasingly seek governmental measures to make beverage alcohol more expensive,
less  available,  and more  difficult  to advertise  and promote.  If the social
acceptability  of beverage alcohol were to decline  significantly,  sales of our
products could materially  decrease.  Our sales would also suffer if governments
sought to ban or restrict advertising or promotional activities,  to limit hours
or  places  of sale,  or took  other  actions  designed  to  discourage  alcohol
consumption.

                                       6


LITIGATION  RELATING TO ALCOHOL  ABUSE AND  ILLEGAL  ALCOHOL  CONSUMPTION  COULD
ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS.

A number of beverage alcohol producers have been sued over allegations  relating
to their advertising  practices. A law firm has filed nine class action lawsuits
against several spirits,  beer, and wine manufacturers,  including us. The suits
allege that our marketing causes illegal consumption of alcohol by persons under
the legal  drinking  ages.  To date,  the first five  courts to  consider  those
lawsuits have dismissed them.  Plaintiffs have appealed,  or have time remaining
to appeal,  those  dismissals.  Another of the cases was voluntarily  dismissed.
Three  others have pending  motions to dismiss.  We dispute the  allegations  in
these lawsuits and intend to continue to defend these cases vigorously. However,
adverse  developments  in these or similar  lawsuits could  materially  hurt our
beverage business and the overall industry generally.

OUR WINE BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY PRODUCTION COSTS.

Our California-based  wine operations have entered into long-term contracts with
various   growers  and   wineries  to  supply   portions  of  our  future  grape
requirements.  Most of the contracts  call for prices to be determined  based on
market  conditions,  within a certain range, and most of the contracts also have
minimum tonnage  requirements.  Although these contracts provide some protection
in times of rising grape prices,  the  contracts  result in  above-market  costs
during times of declining  prices.  In today's  environment of historically  low
grape  prices due to a world over  supply of grapes,  Fetzer  pays  above-market
costs for some of its raw  materials,  which can result in a reduction  in gross
margins.  There can be no assurances as to the future  prevailing  market prices
for grapes or our ability,  relative to our  competitors,  to take  advantage of
oversupply conditions.

FURTHER  CONSOLIDATION  AMONG SPIRITS  PRODUCERS OR WHOLESALERS COULD HINDER THE
DISTRIBUTION OF OUR SPIRITS PRODUCTS.

We use a number  of  different  business  models to market  and  distribute  our
products.  However, we rely largely on other spirits producers to distribute and
market our products in international  markets.  In the United States we sell our
products to wholesalers through the mandatory three-tier system. Distributor and
wholesaler  consolidations have not in the past negatively affected our wine and
spirits business.  Nevertheless,  further  consolidation among spirits producers
overseas or  wholesalers in the United States could hinder the  distribution  of
our products as a result of reduced  attention  and resource  allocation  to our
brands,  due to our brands  representing  a smaller  portion  of their  business
and/or a changing competitive environment.

OUR  ACQUISITION  STRATEGIES AND  INTEGRATION OF ACQUIRED  BUSINESSES MAY NOT BE
SUCCESSFUL.

From time to time,  we  acquire  additional  businesses  that we believe to be a
strategic fit, such as our recent purchase of Chambord  Liqueur.  Integration of
acquired  businesses  into our  existing  business  may prove  challenging,  and
involve  significant  devotion of expenses and management time and disruption of
our  business.  Additionally,  business  acquisitions  may  expose us to unknown
liabilities.  We cannot assure you that our  acquisitions  will not involve such
risks.

Item 1B