Item 1A.  Risk Factors

 

You should carefully consider the risk factors described below and throughout this report, which could materially affect our business. There are also risks that are not presently known or not presently material, as well as the other information set forth in this report that could materially affect our business. In addition, in our periodic filings with the SEC, press releases, and other written and oral statements, we discuss estimates and projections about trends, future performance and our business outlook. Such "forward-looking statements" inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our present expectations and projections, and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our stock in future periods. We cau
tion investors not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. The discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive, but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance.




Unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively affect our operations and results significantly.




Although the severe global economic conditions experienced over the last couple of years have improved somewhat, the degree and pace of recovery is expected to vary around the globe. Our business and financial results will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions. The recent global recession and market turmoil led to a widespread reduction of business activity in general. Consumer confidence and spending decreased dramatically and remain down significantly in many countries. Liquidity, including both business and consumer credit, contracted in a number of our major markets. Unemployment rates have increased significantly in the United States and many other countries that are significant for our business. Many wine and spirits consumers have "traded down" to less expensive products and to drinking occasions and venues less 
favorable to some of our premium and super-premium products. Some large retailers and consumers have been refusing to accept even moderate product price increases. Distributors and retailers reduced their levels of beverage alcohol inventory during the recession, and in some of our markets, Russia being an example, this trend has continued.




The prolongation, exacerbation or expansion of these trends in significant markets could adversely affect our business results. The specific ramifications are difficult to predict, but some potential effects are higher interest rates, significant changes in the rate of inflation (up or down), exchange rate fluctuations, and/or lower returns or discount rates on our pension assets (requiring higher contributions to our pension plans). Our suppliers, customers, and consumers could experience cash flow problems, credit defaults, and other financial hardships. Further, even as the economy picks back up, consumers may continue to curtail spending, make more value-driven and price-sensitive purchasing choices, and have more at-home drinking occasions rather than at restaurants, bars, and hotels. Governments may impose taxes and implement other 
measures to manage the economic conditions in ways that hurt our business. In sum, in a variety of different manifestations, these volatile and uncertain economic conditions, or their renewal or expansion, could have significant adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations, as could the continuation of one or more of the related trends noted above.




Our global growth is subject to a number of commercial and political risks.




We currently market products in more than 135 countries. In addition to the United States, significant markets for us include the United Kingdom, Australia, Mexico, Poland, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, South Africa, China, Japan, Canada, and Russia. We expect our future growth rates in international markets to surpass our growth rates in the United States. Emerging markets, such as Eastern Europe, Latin America, and Asia, as well as countries that some companies might consider to be developed markets, such as France and Australia, provide significant growth opportunities for us.




If anti-American sentiment became pronounced in the principal countries to which we export our beverage products, our global business could suffer. Potentially unstable governments or legal systems, intergovernmental disputes, military conflicts, local labor conditions and business practices, nationalizations, inflation, recession, pandemics, terrorist activities, laws regulating activities of United States-based companies abroad, and laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, are also risks due to the global nature of our business. These and other political, commercial, and economic uncertainties in our various markets around the world may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future growth prospects.




The longer-term outlook for our business anticipates continued success of Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey, Southern Comfort, Finlandia Vodka, Tequila Herradura, el Jimador Tequila, their respective brand families, and our other wine and spirits brands. This outlook is based in part on favorable demographic trends for the sale of wine and spirits through 2014 in the United States, and in many of our global markets for a varying numbers of years thereafter. If these demographic trends do not translate into corresponding sales increases, we may fail to meet our growth expectations. In addition, the somewhat less favorable demographic trends in the United States for several years subsequent to 2014 could negatively affect our performance in those years and our ability to meet our longer-term strategic objectives.

 



  



  







  



 

Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations affect our results.




We sell our products, and pay for some goods, services, and manpower, in international markets primarily in local currency. Since we sell more in local currencies than we purchase, we have a net exposure to changes in the value of the United States dollar. Thus, profits from our overseas businesses would be adversely affected if the dollar strengthens against other currencies in our major markets, especially the euro, British pound, Australian dollar, and Polish zloty. As we increasingly expand our business globally, the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our financial results increases. To buffer this effect, we regularly hedge a portion of our currency exposure. Nevertheless, over time our reported financial results generally will be hurt by a stronger United States dollar and
 helped by a weaker one. Based on the currency hedges we had in place as of April 30, 2010, we expect our fiscal 2011 earnings to be adversely affected by comparisons to our fiscal 2010 performance as a result of the recent significant strengthening of the dollar relative to our other major currencies.




Higher costs or unavailability of input materials could affect our financial results, as could our inability to obtain certain finished goods.




If energy costs rise, our transportation, freight and other operating costs, such as distilling and bottling, will likely increase. Similarly, higher costs for grain, grapes, agave, wood, glass, plastic, closures, and other input materials and/or associated labor costs would likely adversely affect our financial results, since we may not be able to pass along such cost increases to our customers through higher prices.




Our products use a number of materials and ingredients that we purchase from third-party suppliers. Our ability to make our products hinges on having available all of the raw materials, ingredients, bottle closures, packaging, bottles, cans, and other materials used to produce and package them; without sufficient quantities of one or more key input materials, our operations and financial results could suffer. For instance, only a few glass producers make bottles on a scale sufficient for our requirements; and a single producer (Owens-Illinois) supplies most of our glass requirements. Similarly, a Finnish corporation (Altia plc) distills and bottles our Finlandia products for us pursuant to an exclusive long-term supply agreement. If Owens-Illinois, Altia or another of our key suppliers were no longer able to meet our timing, quality or ca
pacity requirements, ceased doing business with us, or increased its prices; and we could not develop alternative cost-effective sources of supply, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Additionally, rising energy and other costs may further curtail consumer spending on leisure, entertainment, and discretionary purchases, thereby resulting in decreased purchases of our brands.




Changes in consumer preferences and our ability to anticipate and react to them may affect our business results.




We are a branded consumer products company that operates in a highly competitive marketplace. We rely on consumers’ demand for our products, so maintaining our competitive position depends on our continued ability to offer products that appeal strongly to consumers. As they have in the past from time to time, consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including changes in demographic and social  trends, public health policies, and changes in leisure, dining, and beverage consumption patterns. Our continued success will require us to anticipate and respond effectively to shifts in consumer behavior and drinking tastes. If consumer preferences were to move away from our premium brands in any of our major markets, or from our ready-to-drink products, particularly Jack Daniel's & Cola in Australia (its lar
gest market) or New Mix, the el Jimador tequila-based ready-to-drink product we sell in Mexico and the United States, our financial results might be adversely affected. Other factors may also reduce consumer spending on our products, including economic decline, a trend toward frugality even as the economy improves, wars, pandemics, weather, natural or man-made disasters, security threats, or terrorist attacks, to name a few.




New product offerings, brand line extensions, primary packaging changes, product reformulations, and similar product innovations by both us and our competitors will increasingly compete for consumers. Product innovation is a significant aspect of our growth strategies; however, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to develop and implement successful line extensions, packaging, and formulation changes, or new products. Unsuccessful implementation or short-lived popularity of our product innovations may result in inventory write offs and other costs, and may also affect consumer perception of the brand family or parent brand. Our inability to attract consumers to our product innovations relative to our competitors’ products, and to continue to do so over time, would likely negatively affect our growth aspirations
, business performance and financial results over time.

 



  



  







  



 

National and local governments may adopt regulations or undertake investigations that could increase our expenses or limit our business activities.




Our operations are subject to extensive governmental legislative and regulatory requirements regarding production, importation, marketing and promotion, labeling, distribution, trade and pricing practices, antitrust and competition, employment and environmental issues. Changes in laws, regulatory measures, governmental policies, or in the manner in which current ones are interpreted, could cause Brown-Forman to incur material additional costs or liabilities, and thereby jeopardize our ability to grow the business. Governmental bodies in countries where we operate may impose or increase limitations on advertising and promotional activities, place restrictions on retail outlets or other locations, times or occasions where beverage alcohol is sold or consumed, or adopt other non-tariff measures that could directly or indirectly limit our opp
ortunities to reach consumers and sales of our products. If the changes were severe, consumer demand could decline to the point of significantly damaging our business performance and prospects.




In addition, from time to time governmental bodies in the United States and international markets investigate business and trade practices of beverage alcohol suppliers, distributors, and retailers, including specific beverage alcohol trade regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in other countries. Our policies and procedures require strict compliance by our employees and agents with all United States and local laws and regulations applicable to our business operations. Nonetheless, despite our policies, procedures and related training programs, governmental investigators may allege or determine that non-compliance has occurred and impose penalties and monetary fines. Thus, adverse developments in or as a result of regulatory measures and governmental investigations could hurt our business operations, reputat
ion and financial results.




Tax increases and changes in tax rules could adversely affect our financial results.




Our business is sensitive to changes in both direct and indirect taxes. As a multinational company based in the United States, Brown-Forman is more exposed to the effects of the various forms of tax increases in the United States than most of our major competitors, especially those that affect the net effective corporate income tax rate. Changes proposed in Congress or by President Obama exemplify this risk; they include repealing LIFO (last-in, first-out treatment of inventory), decreasing or eliminating the ability of United States-based companies to receive a tax credit for foreign taxes paid or to obtain a current US tax deduction for certain expenses in the US related to foreign earnings, and increasing the tax on dividends and/or capital gains.




Increases in federal or state excise taxes or other tax increases could also materially depress our financial results, by reducing consumption of our products and encouraging consumers to switch to lower-priced and lower-taxed product categories. While no legislation to increase federal excise taxes on distilled spirits is currently pending in the United States, excise tax increases are possible, as are further increases to other federal tax burdens imposed on the broader business community and consumers. Municipal and state governments may also increase tax burdens to cover budget deficits and compensate for declines in other revenue sources. For instance, in April 2009 Kentucky, where our corporate headquarters are located, imposed a 6% sales tax on sales of wine and spirits products. Several large states and many more municipalities ha
ve various tax increases under consideration that could adversely affect our business and/or consumers of our products. New tax rules, accounting standards or pronouncements, and changes in interpretation of existing ones, could also have a significant adverse effect on our business and financial results.




Our international business can also be negatively affected by increases in tax rates, such as income taxes, excise taxes, value added taxes, import and export duties, tariff barriers, and/or related local governmental economic protectionism, and the suddenness and unpredictability with which these can occur. The global economic downturn over the past couple of years has increased our tax-related risks in many countries in which we do business, as governmental entities may further increase taxes on beverage alcohol products to replace lost revenues.

 



  



  







  



 

If the social acceptability of our products declines or governments adopt policies disadvantageous to beverage alcohol, our business could be materially adversely affected.




Our ability to market and sell our products depends heavily on both societal attitudes toward drinking and governmental policies that flow from those attitudes. In recent years, there has been increased social and political attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry. The recent attention has focused largely on public health concerns related to alcohol abuse, including drunk driving, underage drinking, and health consequences from the abuse and misuse of beverage alcohol. Alcohol industry critics in the United States, Europe and other countries around the world increasingly seek governmental measures to make beverage alcohol products more expensive, less available, and more difficult to advertise and promote. If the social acceptability of beverage alcohol were to decline significantly, sales of our products could materially decre
ase. Our sales could also suffer if governments ban or restrict advertising or promotional activities, limit hours or places of sale or consumption, or take other actions that discourage alcohol purchase or consumption, which would adversely affect our business and financial results.




Litigation could expose our business to financial and reputational risk.




In the United States and other litigious countries, private or governmental lawsuits are a continuing risk to our business, including but not limited to lawsuits relating to labor and employment practices, environmental issues, taxes, product liability, marketing, trade and business practices, intellectual property, and antitrust matters. Several years ago, a series of putative class action lawsuits were filed against spirits, beer, and wine manufacturers, including Brown- Forman, alleging that our marketing caused illegal alcohol consumption by persons under the legal drinking age. All of the cases were either dismissed or withdrawn and the litigation was concluded in 2007. However, other lawsuits attacking beverage alcohol producers, wholesalers or retailers for alcohol abuse problems, health consequences from the misuse of alcohol, or 
marketing or sales practices could hurt our financial results and business, and the entire industry.




Production cost increases or production facility disruption may adversely affect our business.




Our Mexico-based tequila operations have entered into long-term contracts with land owners in regions where blue agave (the primary raw material in tequila) is grown. Most of these contracts require us to plant, maintain, and harvest the agave, and to compensate the land owners pursuant to formulas based on the prevailing market price for agave at the time of harvest. Instability in agave market conditions could cause us to pay above-market prices for some of the agave we use. Likewise, our California-based wine operations have entered into long-term contracts with various growers and wineries to supply portions of our future grape requirements; and we also own vineyards in California. Most of the contracts call for prices to be determined based on market conditions, within a certain range, and most also have minimum tonnage requirements.
 Although they may provide some protection in times of rising grape prices, the contracts may result in above-market costs during times of declining prices. There can be no assurances as to the future prevailing market prices for agave, grapes, or our other input materials, including grain, glass, wood, plastic, and closures, or our ability, relative to our competitors, to take advantage of changes in market prices for them. Weather, changes in climate conditions, diseases, and other agricultural uncertainties that affect the mortality, health, yield, quality or price of the various raw materials we use in our products also present risks for our business, including potential impairment in the recorded value of our inventory.




We also have a substantial inventory of aged products, principally whiskey and tequila. If there were a catastrophic failure at one of our major distillation or bottling facilities, our business could be adversely affected. The maturing inventories are stored at a handful of different sites, which reduces the risk to a degree; nonetheless, the loss of a substantial amount of aged inventory – through fire, other natural or man-made disaster, contamination, or otherwise – could result in a significant reduction in supply of the affected product or products. A consequence could be our inability to meet consumer demand for the product for a period of time, and other significant adverse business consequences that insurance proceeds may be insufficient to compensate, such as damage to brand equity and future sales from not having ou
r products in the market and in consumers’ sights and hands for this period of time.

 



  



  







  



 

Consolidation among, changes in, increased competition by or poor performance by spirits producers, wholesalers or retailers could hinder the marketing, sale and distribution of our products.




We use a number of different business models to market and distribute our products in different regions of the world. In the United States we sell our products either to wholesale distributors or, in those states that control alcohol sales, to state governments who then sell to retail customers and consumers. In our other global markets, we use a variety of route-to-consumer models, including in many markets reliance on other spirits producers to market and sell our products. Although to date it has happened rarely, if ever, consolidation among spirits producers overseas or wholesalers in the United States could hinder the distribution and sale of our products as a result of reduced attention and resources allocated to our brands during transition periods, the possibility that our brands may represent a smaller portion of the new business
, and/or a changing competitive environment. Also, changes to our route-to-consumer partner or method in important markets could result in temporary sales disruption. Further, while we believe that our size relative to that of our competitors gives us sufficient scale to succeed, we nevertheless face a risk that a continuing consolidation of the large beverage alcohol companies could put us at a competitive disadvantage.




Retailers and wholesalers of our brands offer products that compete directly with ours for shelf space, promotional displays, and consumer purchases. Pricing (including price promotions, discounting, couponing and free goods), marketing, new product introductions, and other competitive behavior by other suppliers, and by distributors and retailers who sell their products against one or more of our brands, could also adversely affect our business and financial results. In tough economic times, consumers tend to be particularly price sensitive and to make more of their purchases in discount stores and other off-premise establishments; therefore, the effects of these competitive activities on our sales may be more pronounced when the economy suffers.




We may not succeed in our strategies for acquisitions and dispositions.




From time to time, we acquire additional brands or businesses. We will likely continue to seek acquisitions that we believe will increase long-term shareholder value, but we cannot assure that we will be able to find and purchase businesses at acceptable prices and terms. It may also prove difficult to integrate acquired businesses and personnel into our existing systems and operations, and to bring them into conformity with our trade practice standards, financial control environment and U.S. public company requirements. Integration may involve significant expense and management time and attention, and may otherwise disrupt our business. Our ability to grow sales of the brands we acquire profitably will be important to our future performance. For example, our expectations for future profit contribution from the main brands we purchased in
 the Casa Herradura business depend on our ability to grow the Herradura and el Jimador families of brands in the United States and other key tequila markets around the world.




Brand or business acquisitions also may expose us to unknown liabilities, the possible loss of key customers and/or employees knowledgeable about the acquired business, and risks associated with doing business in countries or regions with less stable governments, political climates, and legal systems and/or economies, among other risks. Acquisitions could also lead us to incur additional debt and related interest expenses, issue additional shares, and become exposed to contingent liabilities, as well as to experience dilution in our earnings per share and reduction in our return on average invested capital. We may incur future restructuring charges or record impairment losses on the value of goodwill and or other intangible assets resulting from previous acquisitions, which may also negatively affect our financial results.




We also evaluate from time-to-time the potential disposition of assets or businesses that may no longer meet our growth, return and/or strategic objectives. In selling assets or businesses, we may not get a price or terms as favorable as we anticipated. We could also encounter difficulty in finding buyers on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay our accomplishment of strategic objectives. Expected cost savings from reduced overhead relating to the sold assets may not materialize, and the overhead reductions could temporarily disrupt our other business operations. Any of these outcomes could hurt our performance.

 



  



  







  



 

Counterfeiting, tampering, or contamination of our products or other factors could harm our business.




The success of our branded products relies considerably on the favorable image consumers have of them. Consequently, our business depends on the successful protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Given our dependence on the recognition of our brands by, and their attraction to, consumers, we devote substantial efforts to protect our intellectual property rights around the world. In addition, we work to reduce the ability of others to imitate our products. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights are legally supported in the markets in which we do business, the protection afforded intellectual property rights varies greatly from country to country. The beverage alcohol industry experiences problems with product counterfeiting and other forms of trademark infringement, especially in Asia and Eas
tern European markets. Confusingly similar, lower quality or even dangerous counterfeit product could reach the market and adversely affect our intellectual property rights, brand equity, corporate reputation, and financial results.




Sales of one or more of our products also could diminish due to a scare over product tampering or contamination. Actual contaminations of our products or raw materials used to produce, ferment or distill them, whether deliberately by a third party or accidentally, could lead to inferior product quality and even illness, injury or death to consumers, and subject our Company to liability. If a product recall became necessary or we voluntarily recalled product in the event of contamination or damage, sales of the affected product or our broader portfolio of brands could be adversely affected.




Negative publicity may affect our stock price and business performance.




Unfavorable media reports related to our industry, company, brands, personnel, operations, business performance, or prospects may affect our stock price and the performance of our business, regardless of their accuracy or inaccuracy. Since we are a branded consumer products company, adverse publicity can hurt both our company's stock price and actual operating results, as consumers might avoid brands or products that receive bad press.




Termination of our rights to distribute and market agency brands included in our portfolio could adversely affect our business.




In addition to the brands our Company owns, we also market and distribute products on behalf of other brand owners in selected markets, including the U.S. Our rights to sell these agency brands are based on contracts with various brand owners, which have varying lengths, renewal terms, termination rights, and other provisions. We earn a margin for these sales and also gain distribution cost efficiencies in some instances. The termination of our rights to distribute agency brands included in our portfolio could adversely affect our business.




Physical and regulatory effects resulting from climate changes may negatively affect our operations and financial performance.




Severe weather events and climate change may negatively affect agricultural productivity in the regions from which we presently source our agricultural inputs of grains, grapes, and agave. Decreased availability in our preferred regions could lead to higher prices for agricultural products, which may in turn increase the cost of goods for our products. Changes in frequency or intensity of weather can also disrupt our supply chain, which may affect production operations, insurance costs and coverage, as well as delivery of our products to customers. As water is one of the major components of our products, the quality and quantity of the water available for use is important to our ability to operate our business. If hydrologic cycle patterns change and droughts become more common and severe, there may be a scarcity of water in some of our k
ey production regions including California and Mexico. While uncertainties exist in the legislative and regulatory processes regarding climate change, additional regulatory requirements in the United States and other countries may increase our operational costs, due to the higher cost of compliance. New legislation or regulation relating to climate change would also likely increase consumer energy prices, which could reduce consumer demand for our beverage alcohol brands.

 



  



  







  



 

Item 1B