. Risk Factors.”Distribution Network and CustomersOur distribution network, which we sometimes refer to as our “route-to-consumer,” takes a variety of forms depending on (a) a market’s laws and regulatory framework for trade in beverage alcohol, (b) our assessment of a market’s long-term attractiveness and competitive dynamics, (c) the relative profitability of distribution options available to us, (d) the structure of the retail and wholesale trade in the market, and (e) our portfolio’s development stage in the market. As these factors change, we evaluate our route-to-consumer strategy and, from time to time, adopt a different model.In the United States, which generally prohibits wine and spirits manufacturers from selling their products directly to consumers, we sell our brands either to distributors or (in states that directly control alcohol sales) to state governments that then sell to retail customers and consumers. In some states, we have distribution contracts; these contracts typically have no fixed term, but we can terminate them at any time if we pay a terminated distributor a fee (primarily based on a percentage of purchases over time). Some state franchise statutes limit our ability to terminate distributors or mandate a payment to a terminated distributor.Outside the United States, we use a variety of route-to-consumer models. We own and operate distribution companies in 11 markets: Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Korea, Mexico, Poland, and Turkey. In these markets, we sell our products directly to retail stores, to wholesalers, or, in Canada, to provincial governments. In the United Kingdom, we partner in a cost-sharing arrangement with another supplier, Bacardi, to sell a portfolio of both companies’ brands. In many other markets, including Russia, Japan, Spain, Italy, and South Africa, we rely on others to distribute our brands, generally under fixed-term distribution contracts.We believe that our customer relationships are good. We believe our exposure to concentrations of credit risk is limited due to the diverse geographic areas covered by our operations.5Table of ContentsSeasonalityHoliday buying makes the fourth calendar quarter the peak season for our business. Approximately 31% of our net sales for each of the fiscal years ended April 30, 2012 and 2013 was in the fourth calendar quarter. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2014, approximately 32% of our net sales was in the fourth calendar quarter.CompetitionTrade information indicates that we are one of the largest global suppliers of premium wine and spirits. According to International Wine & Spirit Research, for calendar year 2013, the ten largest global spirits companies controlled less than 20% of the total global market for spirits (on a volume basis). While we believe that the overall market environment offers considerable growth opportunities for us, our industry is now, and will remain, highly competitive. We compete against many global, regional, and local brands in a variety of categories of beverage alcohol, but most of our brands compete primarily in the industry’s premium and higher price categories. While the industry is highly fragmented, direct competitors include Bacardi Limited, Beam Suntory Inc., Davide Campari-Milano S.p.A., Diageo PLC, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton S.A., Pernod Ricard S.A., and Rémy Cointreau S.A.Brand recognition, quality of product and packaging, availability, taste, and price are factors that affect consumers’ choices among competing brands in our industry. Several factors influence consumers’ buying decisions, including: advertising; promotions; merchandising in bars, restaurants, and shops; expert or celebrity endorsement; social media and word-of-mouth; and the timing and relevance of new production introductions. Although some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, we believe that our competitive position is strong, particularly as it relates to brand recognition, quality, availability, and relevance of new product introductions.Ingredients and Other SuppliesThe principal raw materials used in manufacturing and packaging our distilled spirits are corn, rye, malted barley, agave, sugar, glass, cartons, PET (polyethylene terephthalate, used in non-glass containers), labels, and wood for barrels, which are used for storage of whiskey and certain tequilas. The principal raw materials used in liqueurs are neutral spirits, sugar, and wine, while the principal raw materials used in our RTD products are sugar, flavorings, neutral spirits, whiskey, tequila, or malt. The principal raw materials used in producing wines are grapes, packaging materials, and wood barrels. Our grape supply comes from a combination of owned vineyards located in California and external contracts with independent growers. We believe that our relationships with our growers are good. Currently, none of these raw materials is in short supply, but shortages in some of these could occur. From time to time, our agricultural ingredients (corn, rye, malted barley, agave, and grapes) could be adversely affected by weather and other forces that might constrain supply.Due to aging requirements, we must schedule production of whiskeys, certain tequilas, and other distilled spirits to meet demand years in the future. As a result, our inventories may be larger in relation to sales and total assets than would be normal for many other businesses.For details on risks related to the availability of raw materials and the uncertainty inherent in supply/demand forecasting, see “. Risk Factors.”Regulatory EnvironmentThe production, storage, transportation, distribution, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by federal, state, local, and foreign authorities. Various countries and local jurisdictions prohibit or restrict the marketing or sale of distilled spirits in whole or in part.The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury regulates the wine and spirits industry in the United States with respect to production, blending, bottling, labeling, sales, advertising, and transportation of beverage alcohol products. Similar regulatory regimes exist in each state, as well as in most of the non-U.S. jurisdictions where we sell our products. In addition, distilled spirits products are subject to customs duties or excise taxation in many markets, including in the United States, at the federal, state, or local level.Under U.S. federal regulations, bourbon and Tennessee whiskeys must be aged for at least two years in new charred oak barrels. We typically age our whiskeys between three and six years. Federal regulations also require that “Canadian” whisky must 6Table of Contentsbe manufactured in Canada in compliance with Canadian laws. Mexican authorities regulate the production and bottling of tequilas, which, among other specifications, mandate minimum aging periods for anejo (one year) and reposado (two months) tequilas. We comply with these regulations.Our operations within and outside the United States are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, and our policy is to comply with all those regulatory requirements.StrategyThe B-F Arrow is an articulation of our vision, mission, values, and behaviors that we expect all of our employees to embrace and exhibit.Our Long-Term StrategyIn the summer of 2010, we introduced our ten-year strategy, the Brown-Forman 150, focused on driving sustainable growth toward our 150th anniversary. Our strategy is flexible. As time passes and the environment changes, we revisit and revise our strategy to reflect current realities. We revised our strategic ambitions in 2013, and these are discussed below.The Jack Daniel’s family of brands, including Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey, is our most valuable asset. We will work to keep Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey strong, healthy, and relevant to consumers worldwide, and to take advantage of the abundant opportunities for growing the Jack Daniel’s family of brands across countries, price points, channels, and consumer groups.We aspire to become a global leader in whiskey. We believe that whiskey is the most attractive global spirits category, and we believe we can leverage our whiskey-making knowledge, production assets, trademarks, brand-building skills, and other capabilities to accomplish this objective. While we will strive to grow Jack Daniel’s globally, we also expect to grow our other whiskey brands, led by Woodford Reserve, in key markets, and we will consider acquisitions and innovations within the whiskey category. We aim to grow Finlandia and Herradura. We plan to focus on growing Finlandia in Poland, Russia, eastern Europe, and the United States, and look to add super-premium vodka brands either through acquisition or innovation. We will work to expand the reach of our tequila brands, Herradura and el Jimador, to new consumers, emphasizing Mexico, the United States, and a few other high-potential markets. We also will continue our efforts to enhance and broaden consumer appeal of the Southern Comfort brand.We will consider entering growing, profitable, local spirit categories in key markets. Realizing this potential will require innovative products and packaging to seize new business opportunities and to leverage our brands into new consumption occasions.The United States remains our largest market, and continuing to grow this market is important to our long-term success. We expect to effect this growth through stronger participation in fast-growing spirits categories such as flavored whiskey, super-premium bourbon, vodka, and tequila; continued product and packaging innovation; continued route-to-consumer proficiency; and brand building among growing consumer segments, with increasing emphasis on multicultural marketing.For more than two decades, our business outside the United States has grown more quickly than our business within it. Continuing this trend is important to our overall growth in the next decade, especially in emerging markets. To realize this objective, we expect to grow our portfolio in developed markets such as France, Australia, the United Kingdom, and Germany and in emerging 7Table of Contentsmarkets such as Poland, Mexico, Turkey, and Russia. We also expect other emerging markets such as Brazil, China, Southeast Asia, Africa, and eastern Europe to increase significantly in importance. We will continue to strive to develop and employ route-to-consumer strategies that will expand our access to and understanding of consumers in these diverse markets.We believe that having a long-term focused, committed, and engaged shareholder base provides us with an important strategic advantage, particularly in a business with aged products and multi-generational brands. As such, we plan to continue our engagement with our shareholders, including our controlling family shareholders.Recognizing the strong cash generating capacity and the capital efficiency of our business, we will continue to pursue what we believe to be well-balanced capital deployment strategies aimed at perpetuating Brown-Forman’s strength and independence.Corporate ResponsibilityIn pursuing all of the objectives described above, we will strive to be responsible in everything we do. Our history of responsibility began in 1870, when our founder, George Garvin Brown, first sold medicinal whisky in glass bottles to ensure quality – an innovative idea during a time when whisky was usually sold by the barrel. Today, achieving Brown-Forman’s business purpose, “enriching the experience of life,” is only possible within a context of corporate responsibility. This means promoting responsible consumer enjoyment of our brands; working to reduce alcohol abuse and misuse; protecting the environment; providing a healthy, safe, and inclusive workplace; and contributing to the global communities where we operate.  Alcohol Responsibility. We promote responsible consumption of our products as we believe this will enhance our relationships with consumers, business partners, stakeholders, and society at large and is essential for the long-term prosperity of our company and our industry. When abused or misused, alcohol can contribute to significant harm both to individuals and the community. We appreciate the need for governments to appropriately and effectively regulate our industry, taking into account national circumstances and local cultures. Along with others and through partnership, we want to be part of the solution to real and complex problems such as underage drinking, drunk driving and overconsumption.Since 2009 we have hosted an open forum sharing our point of view and encouraged engagement of others on OurThinkingAboutDrinking.com. We support The Ad Council’s “Buzzed Driving is Drunk Driving” campaigns, designated driver services such as BeMyDD and the Responsible Retailing Forum which brings together diverse stakeholders seeking to reduce underage sales, among other initiatives. In 2012, Brown-Forman and 12 other global beer, wine, and spirits producers announced commitments to reduce the harmful use of alcohol over the next five years. Our progress against these commitments will be reported annually and more information can be found at www.producerscommitments.org.With respect to our consumer relationships, we seek to communicate through responsible advertising content and placement, utilizing our comprehensive internal marketing code and adhering to marketing and advertising guidelines of the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, the Wine Institute, and spiritsEUROPE, among others. We also are founding members and contribute significant resources to the Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility, an organization created by spirits producers to combat harmful use of alcohol. While this is a U.S. organization, we actively participate in similar organizations in other markets.Environmental Sustainability. In 2010, we set out an Environmental Sustainability Roadmap for 2020, which outlines how we will responsibly manage our environmental footprint as we grow. We have decreased our greenhouse gas emissions by 48% per unit of product and increased our energy efficiency by 36% per unit of product (against a 2009 baseline), exceeding our goals of 30% in each category well ahead of schedule. We have decreased our wastewater generated per unit of product by 25%, and are on target to meet our 30% goal. Our target of zero waste sent to landfill from our facilities continues to present challenges as we struggle to obtain accurate data, but we continue to work towards this goal.In 2014, Newsweek Green Rankings placed us in the #42 spot out of the top 500 U.S. companies. We were also one of only five companies in the S&P 500 consumer staples sector named to the Climate Performance Leadership Index, an index published by the Carbon Disclosure Project, an international non-profit organization that works with institutional investors to motivate companies to disclose and reduce environmental impacts (CDP), for our approach to reducing carbon emissions and mitigating the risks of climate change. We received a distinguished disclosure score of 93 and an “A” performance rating from CDP.  In 2013, we signed the Ceres’ Climate Declaration, a business-backed effort to seize the economic opportunity of addressing climate change through stronger climate policies.Diversity & Inclusion and Human Rights. We believe that a diverse workforce is not only right, but also good for our business and our brand building. We have made progress implementing our aggressive strategy to increase diversity, including better demographic representation in the United States and improved engagement scores among Asians and African Americans, among other groups. In 2013, the Human Rights Campaign, a civil rights organization promoting equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Americans, awarded us a 100% rating in their Corporate Equality Index for the third year in a row. Our employee resource groups (ERGs) have been the core of our diversity culture by supporting employees’ growth while enhancing their 8Table of Contentscontributions. There are eight ERGs in total, including SPIRIT, which was formed to promote inclusion and respect for non-drinkers and the most recent addition, BRAVE, established to support veterans of the armed forces. In fiscal 2014, more than 25% of our employees were members of at least one ERG.In the marketplace, we focus on promoting fair and ethical business practices. In 2012, we issued our Global Human Rights Statement, defining our commitment to respecting the fundamental rights inherent to all human beings. We share our human rights policies and practices with our suppliers through our Suppliers Guide to Human Rights.Community Involvement. Our approach to philanthropy reflects our values as a corporate citizen. Our civic engagement supports non-profit organizations that make a positive impact and improve the lives of individuals and the vitality of our communities. We target our support in six general areas: arts and culture, education, environment, social services, alcohol responsibility and community development. While our focus is in our hometown of Louisville, Kentucky, our civic engagement activities extend to the communities around the globe where our employees live, work and raise their families. In 2014, we donated more than $10 million in cash, logged approximately 18,000 volunteer hours and had over 125 employees serve on boards of directors of 160 non-profit organizations.Our Corporate Responsibility reports are available at www.brown-forman.com/responsibility.9Table of ContentsEmployees and Executive OfficersAs of April 30, 2014, we employed approximately 4,200 people, including approximately 200 employed on a part-time or temporary basis. We believe our employee relations are good.The following persons serve as executive officers of the Company as of June 19, 2014.NameAgePrincipal Occupation andBusiness ExperiencePaul C. Varga50Company Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 2007. Chief Executive Officer since 2005.Jane C. Morreau55Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 2014. Senior Vice President, Chief Production Officer, and Head of Information Technology from 2013 to 2014. Senior Vice President, Director of Financial Management, Accounting and Technology from 2008 to 2012.James S. Welch, Jr.55Company Vice Chairman, Executive Director of Corporate Affairs, Strategy, and Diversity since 2012. Company Vice Chairman, Executive Director of Corporate Affairs, Strategy, Diversity, and Human Resources from 2007 to 2012.Matthew E. Hamel54Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since 2007.Jill Ackerman Jones48Executive Vice President, President for North America and Latin America Regions since 2013. Executive Vice President and Chief Production Officer from 2011 through 2012. Senior Vice President, Chief Production Officer from 2007 to 2011.Mark I. McCallum59Executive Vice President, President for Europe, Africa, Middle East, Asia Pacific, and Travel Retail since 2013. Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from 2009 through 2012. Executive Vice President and Chief Brands Officer from 2006 to 2009.Alejandro “Alex” Alvarez46Senior Vice President, Chief Production Officer since February 2014. Vice President, General Manager Casa Herradura from 2013 to 2014. General Manager Casa Herradura from 2008 to 2013.Brian P. Fitzgerald41Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since 2013. Vice President, Finance Director of Greater Europe and Africa from 2009 to 2012. Assistant Vice President, Director Business Strategy and Analysis from 2007 to 2009.Lisa P. Steiner54Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since 2009. Senior Vice President, Director of Global Human Resources from 2007 to 2009. Lawson E. Whiting45Senior Vice President, Chief Brands Officer since 2013. Senior Vice President, Managing Director Western Europe from 2011 through 2012. Vice President, Finance Director Western Europe from 2010 to 2011. Vice President, Finance Director North America from 2009 to 2010.Available InformationYou can read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC at www.sec.gov.Our website address is www.brown-forman.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those reports with the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference, unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.On our website, we have posted our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Conduct that applies to all directors and employees, and our Code of Ethics that applies specifically to our senior financial officers. We have also posted on our website the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, and Executive Committee of our Board of Directors. Copies of these materials are also available free of charge by writing to our Secretary, Matthew E. Hamel, 850 Dixie Highway, Louisville, Kentucky 40210 or e-mailing him at Secretary@b-f.com.Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe believe the following discussion identifies the most significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition 10Table of Contentscould be materially and adversely affected. Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition in future periods.Unfavorable economic conditions could negatively affect our operations and results.Unfavorable global or regional economic conditions, including uncertainty caused by unstable geopolitical environments in many parts of the world, such as Russia and Ukraine, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. While the major economic disruptions of the 2008-2009 financial crisis have largely subsided, many markets where our products are sold still face significant economic challenges resulting from the global economic downturn that followed, including low consumer confidence, high unemployment, budget deficits, burdensome governmental debt, austerity measures, increased taxes, and weak financial, credit, and housing markets. Unfavorable economic conditions such as these can cause governments to increase taxes on beverage alcohol to raise revenue or reduce consumers’ willingness to make discretionary purchases of beverage alcohol products or pay for premium brands such as ours. In unfavorable economic conditions, consumers may make more value-driven and price-sensitive purchasing choices and drink more at home rather than at restaurants, bars, and hotels, which tend to favor many of our premium and super-premium products.Unfavorable economic conditions could also adversely affect our suppliers, distributors, and retailers, who in turn could experience cash flow problems, more costly or unavailable financing, credit defaults, and other financial hardships, which could lead to distributor or retailer destocking, increase our bad debt expense, or cause us to decrease the levels of unsecured credit that we provide to customers. Other potential negative ramifications to our business from poor economic conditions include political instability, higher interest rates, an increase in the rate of inflation, deflation, exchange rate fluctuations, credit or capital market instability, or lower returns on pension assets or lower discount rates for pension obligations (requiring higher contributions to our pension plans). For details on the effects of changes in the value of our benefit plan obligations and assets on our financial results, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”Our global business is subject to a number of commercial, political, and financial risks, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.Our products are sold in more than 160 countries; accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally, including commercial, political, and financial risks. We continue to expect our growth rates in non-U.S. markets to surpass our growth rates in the United States. Emerging regions, such as eastern Europe, Latin America, Asia, and Africa, as well as more developed markets, such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and Australia, provide growth opportunities for us. If shipments of our products – particularly Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey – to our global markets were to experience significant disruption due to these risks or for other reasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.In addition, we are subject to potential business disruption caused by military conflicts; intergovernmental disputes; potentially unstable governments or legal systems; civil or political upheaval or unrest; local labor policies and conditions; possible expropriation, nationalization, or confiscation of assets; problems with repatriation of foreign earnings; economic or trade sanctions; closure of markets to imports; anti-American sentiment; terrorism or other types of violence in or outside the United States; health pandemics; and a significant reduction in global travel. For example, Mexico is a key commercial and production region for some of our products, and an outbreak of violence in that region could disrupt our key business and manufacturing operations there. In addition, our ability to sell into Russia depends on our products being imported into that country, and any economic or trade sanctions could materially adversely affect our operations there. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to overcome the challenges we encounter with respect to these risks and other factors affecting U.S. companies with global operations.The more we expand our business globally, the more exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar influence our financial results. In many markets outside the United States, we sell our products and pay for some goods, services, and labor primarily in local currency. Since we sell more in local currencies than we purchase, we have a net exposure to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to those currencies. Thus, profits from our overseas businesses would be adversely affected if the dollar were to strengthen against other currencies in our major markets, especially the euro, British pound sterling, Russian ruble, Australian dollar, Polish zloty, Mexican peso, or Japanese yen. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in limiting our foreign currency risk by use of foreign currency derivatives or other means. Over time, our reported financial results generally will be hurt by a stronger U.S. dollar and improved by a weaker one. For details on how foreign exchange affects our business, see ”Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Foreign Exchange.”National and local governments may adopt regulations or undertake investigations that could limit our business activities or increase our costs.Our business is subject to extensive regulatory requirements regarding production, importation, marketing and promotion, labeling, distribution, pricing, and trade practices, among others. Changes in laws, regulatory measures, or governmental policies, or in the manner in which current ones are interpreted, could cause us to incur material additional costs or liabilities, and jeopardize 11Table of Contentsthe growth of our business in the affected market. Specifically, governments may prohibit, or impose or increase limitations on, advertising and promotional activities, or times or locations where beverage alcohol may be sold or consumed, or adopt other measures that could limit our opportunities to reach consumers or sell our products. In Europe, for example, regulators in a number of countries have adopted or are considering severe limitations on the marketing and sale of beverage alcohol. Russia has banned all television, newspaper, magazine, and internet advertising (.ru websites) for beverage alcohol products, and Turkey adopted measures to ban all beverage alcohol advertising and increase restrictions on sales. Increases in regulation of this nature could cause a substantial decline in consumer awareness for our products in the affected market.Some countries in which we do business have a higher risk of corruption than others. While we are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption and other laws, our Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics, and other Company policies, we remain subject to the risk that an employee will violate our policies, or that any of our many affiliates or agents, such as importers, wholesalers, distributors, or other business partners, may take action determined to be in violation of international trade, money laundering, anti-corruption, or other laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, or local equivalent laws. Any determination that our operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could result in investigations, interruption of business, loss of business partner relationships, suspension or termination of licenses and permits (our own or a partner’s), imposition of fines, legal or equitable sanctions, negative publicity, and management distraction. Further, our compliance with applicable anti-corruption or other laws, our Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics, and other Company policies could result in higher operating costs compared to those of other suppliers.Additional regulation in the United States and other countries around climate change and other environmental issues could increase our operating costs. Increasing regulation of fuel emissions could increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products.Tax increases and changes in tax rules could adversely affect our financial results.Our business is sensitive to changes in both direct and indirect taxes. As a multinational company based in the United States, we are more exposed to the impact of U.S tax changes than most of our major competitors, especially those that affect the net effective corporate income tax rate. Certain tax changes that have been or are currently proposed by Congress or the administration exemplify this risk, including repealing LIFO (last-in, first-out accounting treatment of inventory) for tax purposes, decreasing or eliminating the ability of U.S.-based companies to receive a tax credit for foreign taxes paid or to obtain a current U.S. tax deduction for certain expenses in the United States related to foreign earnings, changing the U.S. tax treatment of income related to foreign intangibles, decreasing or eliminating the U.S. manufacturing deduction, or changing the rules relating to the depreciation of capital expenditures or the deduction of advertising expenses.  Our business operations are also subject to numerous duties or taxes that are not based on income, sometimes referred to as “indirect taxes,” which include excise taxes, sales or value-added taxes, property taxes, and payroll taxes. Increases in or the imposition of new indirect taxes on our operations or products would increase the cost of our products or, to the extent levied directly on consumers, make our products less affordable, which could negatively affect our financial results by reducing purchases of our products and encouraging consumers to switch to lower-priced or lower-taxed product categories. For example, certain jurisdictions such as Australia have increased and may continue to increase excise taxes on beverage alcohol products, which could increase the cost of our products to consumers and could reduce consumer demand in those jurisdictions. Our global business can also be negatively affected by import and export duties, tariff barriers, and related local governmental economic protectionist measures, and the suddenness and unpredictability with which these can occur. The global economic downturn increased our tax-related risks in many countries where we do business, as governmental entities could further increase taxes on beverage alcohol products in an effort to replace lost revenues. New tax rules, accounting standards, or pronouncements, and changes in interpretation of existing ones, could also have a significant adverse effect on our business and financial results.Our business performance is substantially dependent upon the continued health of Jack Daniel’s.The Jack Daniel’s family of brands is the primary driver of our growth. Jack Daniel’s is an iconic global trademark with a loyal consumer fan base, and we invest much effort and many resources to protect and preserve the brand’s reputation for quality, craftsmanship, and responsibility. A brand’s reputational value is based in large part on consumer perceptions, and even an isolated incident that causes harm – particularly one resulting in widespread negative publicity – could adversely influence these perceptions and erode consumer trust and confidence in the brand. Significant damage to the Jack Daniel’s brand equity would adversely affect our business. Given the importance of the Jack Daniel’s brand to our overall success, a significant or sustained decline in volume or selling price of our Jack Daniel’s products would likely have a negative effect on our growth and our stock price. Additionally, should we not be successful in our efforts to maintain or increase the relevance of the Jack Daniel’s brand in the minds of current and future consumers, our business and operating results could suffer. For details on the importance of the Jack Daniel’s family 12Table of Contentsof brands to our business, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations  – Fiscal 2014 Brand Highlights.”Changes in consumer preferences and purchases, and our ability to anticipate and react to them, could negatively affect our business results.We are a branded consumer products company in a highly competitive market, and our success depends on our continued ability to offer consumers appealing, high-quality products. Consumer preferences and purchases may shift due to a host of factors, many of which are difficult to predict, including changes in economic conditions, demographic and social trends, public health policies and initiatives, changes in government regulation of beverage alcohol products, the potential legalization of marijuana use on a more widespread basis within the United States, and changes in travel, leisure, dining, gifting, entertaining, and beverage consumption trends. To continue to succeed, we must anticipate and respond effectively to shifts in demographics, consumer behavior, drinking tastes, and drinking occasions. Our business results could be negatively affected by shifts in demographic trends, specifically in the United States, where our consumer base skews toward non-Hispanic white consumers. In the coming years, demographic cohorts other than non-Hispanic whites are expected to grow more quickly than the non-Hispanic white cohort. If we fail to attract consumers from diverse backgrounds and ethnicities, our business results could suffer. Further, trends in the United States for several years after 2014 indicate a slight decrease in the population segment aged 21 to 24; fewer potential consumers in this age bracket could have a negative effect on industry growth rates and our business.Our plans call for the continued growth of the Jack Daniel’s family of brands. In particular, we plan to continue to grow Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Honey sales in the United States this fiscal year and to expand this brand to more of our international markets. If these plans are unsuccessful, or if we otherwise fail to develop or implement effective business, portfolio, and brand strategies, our growth, stock price, or financial results could suffer. More broadly, if consumers shift away from spirits (particularly brown spirits), our premium-priced brands, or our RTD products, our financial results could be adversely affected.We believe that new products, line extensions, label and bottle changes, product reformulations, and similar product innovations by both our competitors and us will compete increasingly for consumer drinking occasions. Product innovation is a significant element of our growth strategy; however, there can be no assurance that we will continue to develop and implement successful line extensions, packaging, formulation or flavor changes, or new products. Unsuccessful implementation or short-lived popularity of our product innovations could result in inventory write-offs and other costs, and also could damage consumers’ perception of the brand family. Our inability to attract consumers to our product innovations relative to our competitors’ products – especially over time – could negatively affect our growth, business, and financial results.Production facility disruption could adversely affect our business.Some of our largest brands, including Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey and Finlandia Vodka, are produced at a single location. A catastrophic event causing physical damage, disruption, or failure at one of our major distillation or bottling facilities could adversely affect our business. Further, because whiskeys and some tequilas are aged for various periods, we maintain a substantial inventory of aged and maturing products in warehouses at a handful of different sites. The loss of a substantial amount of aged inventory – through fire, other natural or man-made disaster, contamination, or otherwise – could significantly reduce the supply of the affected product or products. A consequence of any of these or other supply or supply chain disruptions could be  our inability to meet consumer demand for the affected products for a period of time. In addition, insurance proceeds may be insufficient to cover the replacement value of our inventory of maturing products and other assets if they were to be lost. Disaster recovery plans may not prevent business disruption, and reconstruction of any damaged facilities could require a significant amount of time.The inherent uncertainty in supply/demand forecasting could adversely affect our business, particularly with respect to our aged products.There is an inherent risk of forecasting imprecision in determining the quantity of aged and maturing products to store in a given year for future consumption. The forecasting strategies we use to balance product supply with fluctuations in consumer demand may not be effective for particular years, products, or markets. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in using various levers, such as price, to create the desired balance of available supply and consumer demand for particular years, products, or markets. As a consequence, we may be unable to meet consumer demand for the affected products for a period of time. Furthermore, not having our products in the market on a consistent basis may adversely affect our brand equity and future sales.Higher costs or unavailability of materials could adversely affect our financial results, as could our inability to obtain certain finished goods.Our products use a number of materials and ingredients that we purchase from suppliers. Our ability to make and sell our products depends upon the availability of the raw materials, product ingredients, finished products, wood, glass, bottles, cans, 13Table of Contentsbottle closures, packaging, and other materials used to produce and package them. Without sufficient quantities of one or more key materials, our operations and financial results could suffer. For instance, only a few glass producers make bottles on a scale sufficient for our requirements, and a single producer supplies most of our glass requirements. Similarly, a Finnish company distills and bottles Finlandia Vodka for us. In addition, if we experienced a disruption in the supply of American oak logs to produce the new charred oak barrels in which we age our whiskeys, our production capabilities would be compromised. If any of our key suppliers were no longer able to meet our timing, quality, or capacity requirements, ceased doing business with us, or raised prices, and we could not promptly develop alternative cost-effective sources of supply or production, our operations and financial results could suffer.Higher costs or insufficient availability of suitable grain, agave, water, grapes, wood, glass, closures, and other input materials, or higher associated labor costs or insufficient availability of labor, may adversely affect our financial results, because we may not be able to pass along such cost increases or the cost of such shortages through higher prices to customers. Similarly, when energy costs rise, our transportation, freight, and other operating costs, such as distilling and bottling expenses, also may increase. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we are not able to pass along energy cost increases through higher prices to our customers without reducing demand or sales.Weather, the effects of climate change, diseases, and other agricultural uncertainties that affect the mortality, health, yield, quality, or price of the various raw materials used in our products also present risks for our business, including in some cases potential impairment in the recorded value of our inventory. Changes in weather patterns or intensity can disrupt our supply chain as well, which may affect production operations, insurance costs and coverage, as well as the timely delivery of our products to customers. Water is one of the major components of our products, so the quality and quantity of available water is important to our ability to operate our business. If hydrologic cycle patterns change, and droughts become more common or severe, or if the water supply were interrupted for other reasons, high-quality water could become scarce in some key production regions for our products, including Tennessee, Kentucky, California, Finland, Canada, and Mexico.If the social acceptability of our products declines or governments adopt policies disadvantageous to beverage alcohol, our business could be adversely affected.Our ability to market and sell our products depends heavily on societal attitudes toward drinking and governmental policies that both flow from and affect those attitudes. In recent years, increased social and political attention has been directed at the beverage alcohol industry. The recent attention has focused largely on public health concerns related to alcohol abuse, including drunk driving, underage drinking, and the negative health impacts of the abuse and misuse of beverage alcohol. While most people who drink enjoy alcoholic beverages in moderation, it is commonly known and well reported that excessive levels or inappropriate patterns of drinking can lead to increased risk of a range of health conditions and, for certain people, can result in alcohol dependence. Some academics and public health officials as well as critics of the alcohol industry in the United States, Europe, and other countries around the world increasingly seek governmental measures to make beverage alcohol products more expensive, less available, or more difficult to advertise and promote. For example, the World Health Organization recently published a report on alcohol and its associated health risks and impacts, and encouraged governments to develop specific regulatory policies to reduce the harmful use of alcohol. If future research indicated more widespread serious health risks associated with alcohol consumption – particularly with moderate consumption – or if for any reason the social acceptability of beverage alcohol were to decline significantly, sales of our products could decrease.We face substantial competition in our industry, and consolidation among beverage alcohol producers, wholesalers, or retailers, or changes to our route-to-consumer model, could hinder the marketing, sale, or distribution of our products.We use different business models to market and distribute our products in different countries around the world. In the United States, we sell our products either to distributors for resale to retail outlets or, in those states that control alcohol sales, to state governments who then sell them to retail customers and consumers. In our non-U.S. markets, we use a variety of route-to-consumer models – including, in many markets, reliance on others to market and sell our products. Consolidation among spirits producers, distributors, wholesalers, or retailers could create a more challenging competitive landscape for our products. Consolidation at any level could hinder the distribution and sale of our products as a result of reduced attention and resources allocated to our brands both during and after transition periods, because our brands might represent a smaller portion of the new business portfolio. Expansion into new product categories by other suppliers, or innovation by new entrants into the market, could increase competition in our product categories. Changes to our route-to-consumer models or partners in important markets could result in temporary or longer-term sales disruption, could result in higher implementation-related or fixed costs, and could negatively affect other business relationships we might have with that partner. Distribution network disruption or fluctuations in our product inventory levels at distributors, wholesalers, or retailers could negatively affect our results for a particular period. Further, while we currently 14Table of Contentsbelieve we have sufficient scale to succeed relative to our major competitors, we nevertheless face a risk that continuing consolidation of large beverage alcohol companies could put us at a competitive disadvantage.Our competitors may respond to industry and economic conditions more rapidly or effectively than we do. Other suppliers, as well as wholesalers and retailers of our brands, offer products that compete directly with ours for shelf space, promotional displays, and consumer purchases. Pricing (including price promotions, discounting, couponing, and free goods), marketing, new product introductions, entry into our distribution networks, and other competitive behavior by other suppliers, and by wholesalers and retailers who sell their products against ours, could adversely affect our sales, margins, and profitability. While we seek to take advantage of the efficiencies and opportunities that large retail customers can offer, large retail customers often seek lower pricing and purchase volume flexibility, offer own-label competing products, and represent a large number of other competing products. If their leverage continues to increase, it could negatively affect our financial results.We might not succeed in our strategies for acquisitions and dispositions.From time to time, we acquire or invest in additional brands or businesses. We expect to continue to seek acquisition and investment opportunities that we believe will increase long-term shareholder value, but we may not be able to find and purchase brands or businesses at acceptable prices and terms. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including potential difficulties integrating acquired brands and personnel; the possible loss of key customers or employees most knowledgeable about the acquired business; implementing and maintaining consistent U.S. public company standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems; exposure to unknown liabilities; business disruption; and management distraction. Acquisitions, investments, or joint ventures could also lead us to incur additional debt and related interest expenses, issue additional shares, and become exposed to contingent liabilities, as well as lead to dilution in our earnings per share and reduction in our return on average invested capital. We could incur future restructuring charges or record impairment losses on the value of goodwill or other intangible assets resulting from previous acquisitions, which may also negatively affect our financial results.We also evaluate from time to time the potential disposition of assets or businesses that may no longer meet our growth, return, or strategic objectives. In selling assets or businesses, we may not get prices or terms as favorable as we anticipated. We could also encounter difficulty in finding buyers on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay our accomplishment of strategic objectives. Expected cost savings from reduced overhead relating to the sold assets may not materialize, and the overhead reductions could temporarily disrupt our other business operations. Any of these outcomes could negatively affect our financial performance.Inadequate protection of our intellectual property rights or counterfeiting could adversely affect our business prospects.Our brand names, trademarks, and related intellectual property rights are critical assets, and our business depends on our protecting them successfully. We may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights around the world or in challenging those who imitate our products. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights are legally protected in the markets in which we do business, the ability to register and enforce intellectual property rights varies greatly from country to country. We may not be able to secure trademark registrations in every country in which we wish to sell a particular product, and we may not get favorable protective decisions by courts or trademark offices.Many global spirits brands, including ours, experience problems with product counterfeiting and other forms of trademark infringement, especially in Asia and eastern European markets. We work cooperatively with other spirits industry leaders via our membership in the International Federation of Spirits Producers (IFSP) to combat spirits counterfeiting. While we believe the IFSP generally to be an effective organization, IFSP efforts are subject to cooperation with local authorities and courts in some markets. Despite our and IFSP’s efforts, confusingly similar, lower-quality, or even counterfeit products harmful to consumers could reach the market and adversely affect our intellectual property rights, brand equity, corporate reputation, or financial results. In addition, the industry as a whole could suffer negative effects related to the manufacture, sale, and consumption of illegally produced beverage alcohol.Product recalls or other product liability claims could materially and adversely affect our sales. The success of our brands depends upon the positive image that consumers have of those brands. We could decide to, or be required to, recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, product tampering, spoilage, or other quality issues. Any of these events could adversely affect our sales. Actual contamination, whether deliberate or accidental, could lead to inferior product quality and even illness, injury or death to consumers, potential liability claims, and material loss. Should a product recall become necessary, or we voluntarily recall product in the event of contamination, damage, or other quality issue, sales of the affected product or our broader portfolio of brands could be adversely affected. A significant product liability judgment or widespread product recall may negatively impact the sales and profitability of the affected brand or brands. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, resulting negative publicity could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image.15Table of ContentsLitigation and legal disputes could expose our business to financial and reputational risk.Major private or governmental litigation challenging the production, promotion, distribution, or sale of beverage alcohol or specific brands, could affect our ability to sell products. Because litigation and other legal proceedings can be costly to defend, even actions that are ultimately decided in our favor could have a negative impact on our business reputation or financial results. Several years ago, a series of putative class action cases was filed against several beverage alcohol companies, including Brown-Forman, alleging that large producers intentionally focused advertising and promotion at under-age consumers. All of the cases were either dismissed or withdrawn at early stages - but only after considerable effort and expense. Other lawsuits have been brought against beverage alcohol companies alleging problems related to alcohol abuse, negative health consequences from drinking, problems from alleged marketing or sales practices, or underage drinking. While these lawsuits have been largely unsuccessful in the past, others may succeed in the future. We could also experience employment-related class actions, environmental claims, commercial disputes, product liability actions stemming from a beverage or container production defect, a whistleblower suit, or other major litigation that could adversely affect our business results, particularly to the extent the losses or expenses were not insurable or insured.Governmental actions around the world to enforce trade practice, money laundering, anti-corruption, competition, tax, environmental and other laws are also a continuing risk for global companies such as ours. In addition, as a U.S. public company we are exposed to the risk of securities-related class action suits, particularly following a precipitous drop in the share price of our stock. Adverse developments in major lawsuits concerning these or other matters could have a material adverse effect on our business.A failure of one or more of our key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites, or service providers could have a material adverse impact on our business.We rely on information technology (IT) systems, networks, and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools, hardware (including laptops and mobile devices), software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided, or used by third-parties or their vendors, to assist us in the management of our business. The various uses of these IT systems, networks, and services include, but are not limited to: hosting our internal network and communication systems; ordering and managing materials from suppliers; supply/demand planning; production; shipping product to customers; hosting our branded websites and marketing products to consumers; collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor, and other data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing, and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans, and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal, or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processes necessary to manage our business.Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated cyber crime pose a potential risk to the security of our IT systems, networks, and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. If the IT systems, networks, or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or if we suffer a loss or disclosure of business or other sensitive information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations and reputational, competitive, or business harm, which may adversely affect our business operations or financial condition. In addition, such events could result in unauthorized disclosure of material confidential information, and we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, our employees, customers, suppliers, or consumers. In any of these events, we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and IT systems.Negative publicity could affect our stock price and business performance.Unfavorable media, whether accurate or not, related to our industry or to us or our brands, marketing, personnel, operations, business performance, or prospects could negatively affect our corporate reputation, stock price, ability to attract high-quality talent, or the performance of our business. Adverse publicity or negative commentary on social media outlets, particularly any such negative commentary on social media outlets that goes “viral,” could cause consumers to react rapidly by avoiding our brands or choosing brands offered by our competitors, which could materially negatively affect our financial results.The Brown family has the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval.A substantial majority of our voting stock is controlled by members of the Brown family, and collectively, they have the ability to control the outcome of stockholder votes, including the election of all of our directors and the approval or rejection of any merger, change of control, or other significant corporate transaction. We believe that having a long-term-focused, committed, and engaged shareholder base provides us with an important strategic advantage, particularly in a business with aged products and multi-generational brands. This advantage could be eroded or lost, however, should Brown family members cease, collectively, to be controlling stockholders of the Company. We desire to remain independent and family-owned, and we believe the Brown 16Table of Contentsfamily stockholders share these interests. However, the Brown family’s interests may not always be aligned with other stockholders’ interests. By exercising their control, the Brown family could cause the Company to take actions that are at odds with the investment goals of institutional, short-term, non-voting, or other non-controlling investors, or that have a negative effect on our stock price.We are considered a “controlled company” under New York Stock Exchange rules. Controlled companies are exempt from New York Stock Exchange listing standards that require a board composed of a majority of independent directors, a fully independent nominating/corporate governance committee, and a fully independent compensation committee. We avail ourselves of the exemptions from having a board composed of a majority of independent directors and a fully independent nominating/corporate governance committee. Notwithstanding the available exemption, our Compensation Committee is composed exclusively of independent directors. As a result of our use of some “controlled company” exemptions, our corporate governance practices differ from those of non-controlled companies, which are subject to all of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements.Our failure to attract or retain key executive or employee talent could adversely affect our business.Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management team, other key employees, and a high-quality employee base, as well as our ability to attract, motivate, reward, and retain them. Difficulties in hiring or retaining key executive or other employee talent, or the unexpected loss of experienced employees, could have an adverse impact our business performance. Item 1B