Item 1A.  Risk Factors

 

This report contains statements, estimates, and projections that are "forward-looking statements" as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Words such as “aim,” “anticipate,” “aspire,” “believe,” “envision,” “estimate,” “expect,” “expectation,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,” “project,” “pursue,” “see,” “will,” “will continue,” and similar words identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date we make them.  In addition, in our periodic filings with the SEC, press releases, and other written and oral statements, we discuss estimates and projections about trends, future performance and our business outlook. Such "forward-looking statements" inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our present expectations and projections, and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and the trading price of our stock in future periods. We caution investors not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. The discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive, but is designed to highlight what we believe are some important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance.  There are also risks that are not presently known or not presently material, as well as other information set forth in this report, including trends, developments and uncertainties, that could materially affect our business.  You should carefully consider the risk factors below, and the information throughout this report, which could materially affect our business and financial results.




Unfavorable economic conditions could negatively affect our operations and results significantly.




Our business and financial results will continue to be affected by worldwide and regional economic conditions. The specific ramifications of unfavorable economic conditions on our business are difficult to predict, but some potentially significant effects are reduced consumer spending, distributor or retailer destocking, higher interest rates, changes in the rate of inflation (up or down), exchange rate fluctuations, credit or capital market instability, bank failures, and/or lower returns or discount rates on our pension assets (requiring higher contributions to our pension plans). Our suppliers, customers, and consumers could experience cash flow problems, increased cost or reduced availability of financing, credit defaults, and other financial hardships. The U.S. federal budget and individual state budget deficits could result in increased taxes on our products, business, customers, or consumers; and a number of proposals to increase taxes on beverage alcohol have been made at the federal and state levels in recent years. Governments in other countries in which we have a sizable business also may impose taxes and implement other austerity measures to manage the economic conditions in ways that hurt our business. Countries, including significant markets for us in Europe, may default on sovereign debt. For additional information with respect to the effects of changes in the value of our benefit plan obligations and assets on our financial results, see “Pension and other Postretirement Benefits” on page 47 of the 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders.




Further, as the economy picks back up, consumers may continue to curtail spending, make more value-driven and price-sensitive purchasing choices, and have more at-home drinking occasions rather than at restaurants, bars, and hotels. In sum, in a variety of different manifestations, unfavorable economic conditions could have significant adverse effects on our business, financial position, and results of operations.

 

 



  



  







  




 

Our global growth is subject to a number of commercial and political risks.




We currently market products in more than 135 countries. In addition to the United States, significant markets for us include Australia, United Kingdom, Mexico, Poland, Germany, France, Canada, Japan, Spain, Turkey, South Africa, Russia, Italy, and China. We expect our future growth rates in international markets to surpass our growth rates in the United States. Emerging regions, such as Eastern Europe, Latin America, and Asia, as well as countries that some companies consider to be developed markets, such as France and Australia, provide significant growth opportunities for us.  If anti-American sentiment became pronounced in the principal countries to which we export our beverage products, our global business could suffer.

 

Potentially unstable governments or legal systems, intergovernmental disputes, military conflicts, local labor conditions and business practices, nationalizations, closure of markets to exports or significant import tax increases or restrictions, inflation, recession, pandemics, terrorist activities in or outside of the United States, laws regulating activities of United States-based companies abroad, and other laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, are also risks due to the global nature of our business. These and other political, commercial, and economic uncertainties in our various markets around the world may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future growth prospects.




The longer-term outlook for our business anticipates continued success of Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey, Southern Comfort Liqueur, Finlandia Vodka, Tequila Herradura, el Jimador Tequila, their respective brand families, and our other brands. This outlook is based in part on favorable demographic trends for the sale of beverage alcohol through 2014 in the United States, and in many of our global markets for varying numbers of years. If these demographic trends do not translate into corresponding sales increases, we may fail to meet our growth expectations. In addition, the somewhat less favorable demographic trends in the United States for several years subsequent to 2014 could negatively affect our performance in those years and our ability to meet our longer-term strategic objectives.

 

Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations affect our financial results.




The more we expand our business globally, the more exchange rate fluctuations relative to the United States dollar influence our financial results. In international markets, we sell our products, and pay for some goods, services, and manpower primarily in local currency. Since we sell more in local currencies than we purchase, we have a net exposure to changes in the value of the United States dollar relative to those currencies.  Thus, profits from our overseas businesses would be adversely affected if the dollar strengthens against other currencies in our major markets, especially the Euro, British pound, Australian dollar, and Polish zloty.  To buffer this effect, we regularly hedge a portion of our currency exposure; and as of April 30, 2011, we have hedged approximately 40% of our total fiscal 2012 transactional exposure to foreign currency fluctuations for our major currencies. Nevertheless, over time, our reported financial results generally will be hurt by a stronger United States dollar and helped by a weaker one.    For additional information with respect to foreign exchange effects on our business, see “Foreign Exchange” on page 38 of the 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders.

 

 



  



  







  




 

Higher costs or unavailability of materials could affect our financial results, as could our inability to obtain certain finished goods.




Our products use a number of materials and ingredients that we purchase from third-party suppliers. Our ability to make and sell our products hinges on having available all of the raw materials, product ingredients, finished product, glass, bottles, cans, bottle closures, packaging, and other materials used to produce and package them; without sufficient quantities of one or more key  materials, our operations and financial results could suffer. For instance, only a few glass producers make bottles on a scale sufficient for our requirements; and a single producer supplies most of our glass requirements. Similarly, a Finnish corporation distills and bottles our Finlandia Vodka products for us. If any of our key suppliers were no longer able to meet our timing, quality or capacity requirements, ceased doing business with us, or raised its prices, and we could not develop alternative cost-effective sources of supply or production, our operations and financial results could suffer.




Higher costs or insufficient availability of suitable grain, agave, water, grapes, wood, glass, closures, and other input materials and/or associated labor costs may affect adversely our financial results, since we may not be able to pass along such cost increases or shortages through higher prices to customers.  Weather, the physical effects of climate change, diseases and other agricultural uncertainties that affect the mortality, health, yield, quality or price of the various raw materials used in our products also present risks for our business, including in some cases potential impairment in the recorded value of our inventory.  Changes in frequency or intensity of weather can disrupt our supply chain as well, which may affect production operations, insurance costs and coverage, as well as the timely delivery of our products to customers.

 

As water is one of the major components of our products, the quality and quantity of the water available for use is important to our ability to operate our business. If hydrologic cycle patterns change, and droughts become more common and severe, or if the water supply were interrupted for other reasons, there may be a scarcity of desirable water in some of the key production regions for our products, including Tennessee, Finland, Mexico, and California.




When energy costs rise, our transportation, freight and other operating costs, such as distilling and bottling expenses, also increase.   Additionally, rising energy and other costs may curtail consumer spending on leisure activities, entertainment, and discretionary purchases, resulting in fewer purchases of our products, including the Jack Daniel’s family of brands, with their broad based consumer appeal.




Changes in consumer preferences and purchases, and our ability to anticipate and react to them affect our business results.




We are a branded consumer products company in a highly competitive market. Our success depends on our continued ability to offer consumers highly appealing products. Consumer preferences and purchases can shift due to a host of factors, including changes in demographic and social trends, public health policies, and leisure, dining, and beverage consumption proclivities. Many other factors could also lead to lower consumer preference for, or spending on, our products, including economic decline, trends toward frugality, war, pandemics, weather, natural or man-made disasters, competitor actions, security threats, or terrorist attacks, for example. To continue to succeed we must anticipate and respond effectively to shifts in consumer behavior and drinking tastes.


The Jack Daniel’s family of brands has been the primary driver of our incremental growth for many years, and our current growth projections for fiscal 2012 and beyond rely on this trend to continue. Therefore, any significant or sustained decline in sales or selling price of our Jack Daniel’s products could materially depress our financial results. More broadly, if we experienced a significant consumer shift in any of our major markets away from spirits, our premium brands, or our ready-to-drink and ready-to-pour products, our financial results likely would be affected adversely. We believe that new products, line extensions, label and bottle changes, product reformulations, and similar product innovations by both us and our competitors will compete increasingly for consumers’ share of stomach. Product innovation is a significant aspect of our growth strategies; however, there can be no assurance that we will continue to develop and implement successful line extensions, packaging, formula changes, or new products. Unsuccessful implementation or short-lived popularity of our product innovations may result in inventory write-offs and other costs, and may also decrease consumer perception of the brand family or parent brand. Our inability to attract consumers to our product innovations relative to our competitors’ products and to continue to do so over time, likely would affect negatively our growth, business performance and financial results over time.

 

 



  



  







  



 

 

National and local governments may adopt regulations or undertake investigations that could increase our expenses or limit our business activities.




Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislative and regulatory requirements regarding production, importation, marketing and promotion, labeling, distribution, trade, and pricing practices. Changes in related laws, regulatory measures, governmental policies, or in the manner in which current ones are interpreted, could cause Brown-Forman to incur material additional costs or liabilities, and jeopardize the growth of the business. Governments may impose or increase limitations on advertising and promotional activities; place restrictions on retail outlets or other locations, times or occasions where beverage alcohol may be sold or consumed; or adopt other measures that could directly or indirectly limit our opportunities to reach consumers and sell of our products.




For example, the Federal Trade Commission has called for the beverage alcohol industry to move voluntarily to a minimum 85% adult demographic advertising placement standard in the U.S., from the current 70%.  The Russian government is considering restoring the state monopoly on beverage alcohol to combat that country’s excessive consumption.  In Europe, regulators are considering potential bans or severe limitations on the ability to market and sell ready-to-drink products.  If these or other severe regulatory changes are adopted, consumer demand could decline to the point of significantly damaging our business performance and prospects.




In addition, from time to time governmental bodies in the United States and international markets investigate business and trade practices of beverage alcohol producers, distributors, suppliers, and retailers, including their compliance with specific beverage alcohol trade regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar laws in the U.K. and other countries. Our policies and procedures require compliance by our employees and agents with all laws and regulations applicable to our business operations. Nonetheless, despite our policies, procedures and related training programs, governmental investigators may allege or determine that non-compliance has occurred and impose penalties and monetary fines. Thus, adverse developments in or as a result of regulatory measures and governmental investigations could hurt our business operations, reputation and financial results.




Tax increases and changes in tax rules could adversely affect our financial results.




Our business is sensitive to changes in both direct and indirect taxes. As a multinational company based in the United States, Brown-Forman is more exposed to the effects of the various forms of tax changes in the United States than most of our major competitors, especially those changes that affect the net effective corporate income tax rate. Changes that have been proposed in the past (but not enacted) by Congress or the present administration exemplify this risk; they include repealing LIFO (last-in, first-out treatment of inventory), decreasing or eliminating the ability of United States-based companies to receive a tax credit for foreign taxes paid or to obtain a current US tax deduction for certain expenses in the US related to foreign earnings, and increasing the tax on dividends and/or capital gains.




Increases in federal or state excise taxes or other tax increases could also materially depress our financial results, by reducing purchases of our products and encouraging consumers to switch to lower-priced and lower-taxed product categories. While no legislation to increase federal excise taxes on distilled spirits is currently pending in the United States, excise tax increases are possible, as are further increases to other federal tax burdens imposed on the broader business community and consumers. Municipal and state governments may also increase tax burdens to cover budget deficits and compensate for declines in other revenue sources. For instance, in April 2009, Kentucky, where our corporate headquarters is located, subjected wine and spirits products to the 6% state sales tax. Several large states and many more municipalities have various tax increases under consideration that could adversely affect our business and/or consumers of our products. New tax rules, accounting standards or pronouncements, and changes in interpretation of existing ones, could also have a significant adverse effect on our business and financial results.




Our global business can also be negatively affected by increases in tax rates, such as income taxes, excise taxes, value added taxes, import and export duties, tariff barriers, and/or related local governmental economic protectionism, and the suddenness and unpredictability with which these can occur. The recent global economic downturn has increased our tax-related risks in many countries in which we do business, as governmental entities may further increase taxes on beverage alcohol products to replace lost revenues. Even significant income tax increases on consumers could affect our sales results.

 

 



  



  







  



 

 

 If the social or health acceptability of our products declines or governments adopt policies disadvantageous to beverage alcohol, our business could be materially adversely affected.




Our ability to market and sell our products depends heavily on both societal attitudes toward drinking and governmental policies that flow from those attitudes. In recent years, there has been increased social and political attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry. The recent attention has focused largely on public health concerns related to alcohol abuse, including drunk driving, underage drinking, and the negative health impacts of the abuse and misuse of beverage alcohol. While most people who drink enjoy alcoholic beverages in moderation, it is commonly  known and well reported that excessive levels or inappropriate patterns of drinking can lead to increased risk of a myriad of health risks and, for certain people, can result in alcoholism or dependence. Alcohol industry critics in the United States, Europe and other countries around the world increasingly seek governmental measures to make beverage alcohol products more expensive, less available, and more difficult to advertise and promote. If the social acceptability of beverage alcohol were to decline significantly, sales of our products could decrease materially. Our sales also could suffer if governments ban or restrict advertising or promotional activities, limit hours or places of sale or consumption, or take other actions that discourage alcohol purchase or consumption.




Litigation could expose our business to financial and reputational risk.




Major private or governmental litigation challenging the production, promotion, distribution or sale of beverage alcohol or specific brands, could affect our ability to sell products; and even ultimate vindication can be costly. Several years ago, a series of punitive class action cases were filed against several alcohol companies, including Brown-Forman, alleging that large producers intentionally focused advertising and promotion at under-age consumers.  All of the cases were either dismissed or withdrawn at early stages, but only after considerable effort and expense. Other lawsuits have been brought against beverage alcohol companies for problems related to alcohol abuse, negative health consequences from drinking, or for claimed problems from alleged marketing or sales practices, or underage drinking.  While these lawsuits have been typically unsuccessful in the past, others are possible in the future. We could also experience employment related class actions, product liability actions stemming from a beverage or container production defect, a whistleblower suit, or other major litigation that could adversely affect our business results, particularly to the extent the losses or expenses were not insurable or insured.




Governmental actions around the world to enforce trade practice, anti-corruption, competition, tax, environmental and other laws are also a continuing risk for global companies such as Brown-Forman. As a public U.S. company we are exposed as well to the risk of shareholder class-action suits, particularly following an event that resulted in a precipitous drop in the share price of our stock. Adverse developments in major lawsuits concerning these or other matters could have a material adverse effect on our business.




Production facility disruption may adversely affect our business.




We have a substantial inventory of aged products, principally whiskey and tequila. If there were a catastrophic failure at one of our major distillation or bottling facilities, our business could be adversely affected. The maturing inventories are stored at a handful of different sites, which reduces the risk to a degree; nonetheless, the loss of a substantial amount of aged inventory – through fire, other natural or man-made disaster, contamination, or otherwise – could result in a significant reduction in supply of the affected product or products. Similarly, if we experienced a disruption in the supply of new oak barrels in which to age our whiskies, our business could suffer. A consequence of any of these supply disruptions could be our inability to meet consumer demand for the affected products for a period of time, and other significant adverse business consequences that insurance proceeds may be insufficient to compensate, such as damage to brand equity and future sales from not having our products in the market and in consumers’ sights and hands for this period of time.

 

 



  



  







  



 

 

Consolidation among, changes in, increased competition by, or poor performance by spirits producers, wholesalers or retailers could hinder the marketing, sale and distribution of our products.




We use a number of different business models to market and distribute our products in different regions of the world. In the United States, we sell our products either to wholesale distributors or, in those states that control alcohol sales, to state governments who then sell them to retail customers and consumers. In our other global markets, we use a variety of route-to-consumer models - including in many markets, reliance on other spirits producers to market and sell our products.  Consolidation among spirits producers overseas, or among wholesalers in the United States, could hinder the distribution and sale of our products as a result of reduced attention and resources allocated to our brands during transition periods, the possibility that our brands may represent a smaller portion of the new business, and/or a changing competitive environment. Also, changes to our route-to-consumer partner or method in important markets could result in temporary sales disruption. Further, while we believe that our size relative to that of our competitors gives us sufficient scale to succeed, we nevertheless face a risk that a continuing consolidation of the large beverage alcohol companies could put us at a competitive disadvantage.




Retailers and wholesalers of our brands offer products that compete directly with ours for shelf space, promotional displays, and consumer purchases. Pricing (including price promotions, discounting, couponing and free goods), marketing, new product introductions, and other competitive behavior by other suppliers, and by distributors and retailers who sell their products against one or more of our brands, could also adversely affect our business and financial results. In tough economic times, consumers tend to be particularly price sensitive and to make more of their purchases in discount stores and other off-premise establishments; therefore, the effects of these competitive activities on our sales may be more pronounced when the economy suffers.




We may not succeed in our strategies for acquisitions and dispositions.




From time to time, we acquire additional brands or businesses. We likely will continue to seek acquisitions that we believe will increase long-term shareholder value, but we cannot assure that we will be able to find and purchase brands or businesses at acceptable prices and terms. It may also prove difficult to integrate acquired businesses and personnel into our existing systems and operations, and to bring them into conformity with our trade practice standards, financial control environment, and U.S. public company requirements. Integration may involve significant expense and management time and attention, and may otherwise disrupt our business. Our ability to increase sales of the brands we acquire profitably will be important to our future performance. For example, our expectations for future profit contribution from the main brands we purchased in the Casa Herradura business depend on our ability to grow the Herradura and el Jimador tequila families of brands in the United States and other markets around the world.




Brand or business acquisitions also may expose us to unknown liabilities, the possible loss of key customers and/or employees most knowledgeable about the acquired business, and risks associated with doing business in countries or regions with less stable governments, political climates, and legal systems and/or economies, among other risks. Acquisitions could also lead us to incur additional debt and related interest expenses, issue additional shares, and become exposed to contingent liabilities, as well as to experience dilution in our earnings per share and reduction in our return on average invested capital. We may incur future restructuring charges or record impairment losses on the value of goodwill and or other intangible assets resulting from previous acquisitions, which may also negatively affect our financial results.




We also evaluate from time-to-time the potential disposition of assets or businesses that may no longer meet our growth, return and/or strategic objectives. In selling assets or businesses, we may not get a price or terms as favorable as we anticipated. We could also encounter difficulty in finding buyers on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay our accomplishment of strategic objectives. Expected cost savings from reduced overhead relating to the sold assets may not materialize, and the overhead reductions could temporarily disrupt our other business operations. Any of these outcomes could hurt our performance.

 

 



  



  







  



 

 

Counterfeiting, tampering, or contamination of our products or other factors could harm our business.




The success of our branded products relies in large part on the favorable image they enjoy with consumers. Consequently, our business depends on the successful protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We devote substantial effort to protect our intellectual property rights around the world. We challenge those who imitate our products. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights are legally supported in the markets in which we do business, the protection afforded intellectual property rights varies greatly from country to country. The beverage alcohol industry experiences problems with product counterfeiting and other forms of trademark infringement, especially in Asia and Eastern European markets. Confusingly similar, lower quality, or even dangerous counterfeit product could reach the market and adversely affect our intellectual property rights, brand equity, corporate reputation, and financial results.




Sales of one or more of our products also could diminish due to a scare over product tampering or contamination. Actual contaminations of our products or raw materials used to produce, ferment or distill them, whether deliberately by a third party or accidentally, could lead to inferior product quality and even illness, injury or death to consumers, potential liability claims and loss. Should a product recall become necessary or we voluntarily recalled product in the event of contamination or damage, sales of the affected product or our broader portfolio of brands could be affected adversely.




Negative publicity may affect our stock price and business performance.




Unfavorable media related to our industry, company, brands, marketing, personnel, operations, business performance, or prospects may affect our stock price and the performance of our business, regardless of its accuracy or inaccuracy. Since we are a branded consumer products company, adverse publicity can hurt both our company's stock price and actual operating results, as consumers might avoid brands or products that receive bad press.




Termination of our rights to distribute and market agency brands included in our portfolio could adversely affect our financial results.




In addition to the brands our Company owns, we also market and distribute products on behalf of other brand owners in selected markets, including the United States. Our rights to sell these agency brands are based on contracts with various brand owners, which have varying lengths, renewal terms, termination rights, and other provisions. We earn a margin for these sales and also gain distribution cost efficiencies in some instances. The termination of our rights to distribute agency brands included in our portfolio could adversely affect our financial results.




Regulatory effects resulting from climate change or other environmental issues may negatively affect our operations and financial performance.




While uncertainties exist in the legislative and regulatory processes regarding climate change and other environmental issues, additional regulatory requirements in the United States and other countries may increase our operational costs, due to the higher cost of compliance. New legislation or regulation relating to climate change or other environmental issues could also increase consumer energy prices, which could reduce consumer demand for our beverage alcohol brands.

 

 



  



  







  



 




Item 1B