ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



     An investment in our common stock involves various risks. When considering an investment in
our Company, one should consider carefully all of the risk factors described below, as well as
other information included and incorporated by reference in this report. There may be additional
risks, uncertainties and matters not listed below, that we are unaware of, or that we currently
consider immaterial. Any of these could adversely affect our business, financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows and, thus, the value of an investment in our Company.


Risk Factors Related to the Worldwide Oil and Natural Gas Industry



     Our business is focused on providing products and services to the worldwide oil and natural
gas industry; therefore, our risk factors include those factors that impact, either positively or
negatively, the markets for oil and natural gas. Expenditures by our customers for exploration,
development and production of oil and natural gas are based on their expectations of future
hydrocarbon demand, the risks associated with developing the reserves, their ability to finance
exploration for and development of reserves, and the future value of the reserves. Their
evaluation of the future value is based, in part, on their expectations for global demand, global
supply, excess production capacity, inventory levels, and other factors that influence oil and
natural gas prices. The key risk factors currently influencing the worldwide oil and natural gas
markets are discussed below.


Demand for oil and natural gas is subject to factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect
our operating results. Changes in the global economy or credit market could impact our customers’
spending levels and our revenues and operating results.



     Demand for oil and natural gas, as well as the demand for our services, is highly correlated
with global economic growth, and in particular by the economic growth of countries such as the
U.S., India, and China, as well as developing countries in Asia and the Middle East who are either
significant users of oil and natural gas or whose economies are experiencing the most rapid
economic growth compared to the global average. The past slowdown in global economic growth and
recession in the developed economies resulted in reduced demand for oil and natural gas, increased
spare productive capacity and lower energy prices. Weakness or deterioration of the global economy
or credit market could reduce our customers’ spending levels and reduce our revenues and operating
results. Incremental weakness in global economic activity, particularly in China, India, the
Middle East and developing Asia will reduce demand for oil and natural gas and result in lower oil
and natural gas prices. Incremental strength in global economic activity in such areas will create
more demand for oil and natural gas and support higher oil and natural gas prices. In addition,
demand for oil and natural gas could be impacted by environmental
regulation, including “cap and trade” legislation,  carbon taxes
and the cost for carbon capture and sequestration
related regulations.


Volatility of oil and natural gas prices can adversely affect demand for our products and services.



     Volatility in oil and natural gas prices can also impact our customers’ activity levels and
spending for our products and services. Current energy prices are important contributors to cash
flow for our customers and their ability to fund exploration and development activities.
Expectations about future prices and price volatility are important for determining future spending
levels.


     Lower oil and gas prices generally lead to decreased spending by our customers. While higher
oil and natural gas prices generally lead to increased spending by our customers, sustained high
energy prices can be an impediment to economic growth, and can therefore negatively impact spending
by our customers. Our customers also take into account the volatility of energy prices and other
risk factors by requiring higher returns for individual projects if there is higher perceived risk.
Any of these factors could affect the demand for oil and natural gas and could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.


Many of our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services and ability to
pay amounts owed us have been impacted by economic conditions.



     Access to capital is dependent on our customers’ ability to access the funds necessary to
develop economically attractive projects based upon their expectations of future energy prices,
required investments and resulting returns. Limited access to external sources of funding has
caused many customers to reduce their capital spending plans to levels supported by
internally-generated cash flow. In addition, the combination of a reduction of cash flow resulting
from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit
facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may impact the ability of our
customers to pay amounts owed to us. Starting in late 2008 and continuing through the fourth
quarter of 2009, we experienced a delay in receiving payments from our customers in Venezuela.
As of December 31, 2009, our accounts receivable in Venezuela totaled approximately 5% of our
total accounts receivable. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Venezuela revenues were
approximately 2% of our total consolidated revenues.


12




Table of Contents



Supply of oil and natural gas is subject to factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect
our operating results.



     Productive capacity for oil and natural gas is dependent on our customers’ decisions to
develop and produce oil and natural gas reserves. The ability to produce oil and natural gas can
be affected by the number and productivity of new wells drilled and completed, as well as the rate
of production and resulting depletion of existing wells. Advanced technologies, such as horizontal
drilling, improve total recovery but also result in a more rapid production decline.


     Access to prospects is also important to our customers. Access to prospects may be limited
because host governments do not allow access to the reserves or because another oil and natural gas
exploration company owns the rights to develop the prospect. Government regulations and the costs
incurred by oil and natural gas exploration companies to conform to and comply with government
regulations, may also limit the quantity of oil and natural gas that may be economically produced.


     Supply can also be impacted by the degree to which individual Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) nations and other large oil and natural gas producing countries,
including, but not limited to, Norway and Russia, are willing and able to control production and
exports of oil, to decrease or increase supply and to support their targeted oil price while
meeting their market share objectives. Any of these factors could affect the supply of oil and
natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.


Changes in spare productive capacity or inventory levels can be indicative of future customer
spending to explore for and develop oil and natural gas which in turn influences the demand for our
products and services.



     Spare productive capacity and oil and natural gas storage inventory levels are an indicator of
the relative balance between supply and demand. High or increasing storage or inventories
generally indicate that supply is exceeding demand and that energy prices are likely to soften.
Low or decreasing storage or inventories are an indicator that demand is growing faster than supply
and that energy prices are likely to rise. Measures of maximum productive capacity compared to
demand (“spare productive capacity”) are also an important factor influencing energy prices and
spending by oil and natural gas exploration companies. When spare productive capacity is low
compared to demand, energy prices tend to be higher and more volatile reflecting the increased
vulnerability of the entire system to disruption.


Seasonal and adverse weather conditions adversely affect demand for our services and operations.



     Weather can also have a significant impact on demand as consumption of energy is seasonal, and
any variation from normal weather patterns, cooler or warmer summers and winters, can have a
significant impact on demand. Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of
Mexico, may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers’ operations, cause supply
disruptions and result in a loss of revenue and damage to our equipment and facilities, which may
or may not be insured. Extreme winter conditions in Canada, Russia or the North Sea may interrupt
or curtail our operations, or our customers’ operations, in those areas and result in a loss of
revenue.


Risk Factors Related to Our Business



     Our expectations regarding our business are affected by the following risk factors and the
timing of any of these risk factors:


We operate in a highly competitive environment, which may adversely affect our ability to succeed.



     We operate in a highly competitive environment for marketing oilfield services and securing
equipment and trained personnel. Our ability to continually provide competitive products and
services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and
services, maintain market share and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. In
order to be competitive, we must provide new technologies and reliable products and services that
perform as expected and that create value for our customers. Our ability to defend, maintain or
increase prices for our products and services is in part dependent on the industry’s capacity
relative to customer demand, and on our ability to differentiate the value delivered by our
products and services from our competitors’ products and services. In addition, our ability to
negotiate acceptable contract terms and conditions with our customers, especially state-owned
national oil companies, our ability to manage warranty claims and our ability to effectively manage
our commercial agents can also impact our results of operations.


     Managing development of competitive technology and new product introductions on a forecasted
schedule and at forecasted costs can impact our financial results. Development of competing
technology that accelerates the obsolescence of any of our products or services can have a
detrimental impact on our financial results and can result in the potential impairment of
long-lived assets.


13




Table of Contents



     We may be disadvantaged competitively and financially by a significant movement of exploration
and production operations to areas of the world in which we are not currently active.


The high cost or unavailability of infrastructure, materials, equipment, supplies and personnel,
particularly in periods of rapid growth, could adversely affect our ability to execute our
operations on a timely basis.



     Our manufacturing operations are dependent on having sufficient raw materials, component parts
and manufacturing capacity available to meet our manufacturing plans at a reasonable cost while
minimizing inventories. Our ability to effectively manage our manufacturing operations and meet
these goals can have an impact on our business, including our ability to meet our manufacturing
plans and revenue goals, control costs and avoid shortages of raw materials and component parts.
Raw materials and components of particular concern include steel alloys (including chromium and
nickel), titanium, beryllium, copper, lead, tungsten carbide, synthetic and natural diamonds,
electronic components and hydrocarbon-based chemical feed stocks. Our ability to repair or replace
equipment damaged or lost in the well can also impact our ability to service our customers. A lack
of manufacturing capacity could result in increased backlog, which may limit our ability to respond
to short lead time orders.


     People are a key resource to developing, manufacturing and delivering our products and
services to our customers around the world. Our ability to manage the recruiting, training and
retention of the highly skilled workforce required by our plans and to manage the associated costs
could impact our business. A well-trained, motivated work force has a positive impact on our
ability to attract and retain business. Periods of rapid growth present a challenge to us and our
industry to recruit, train and retain our employees while managing the impact of wage inflation and
potential lack of available qualified labor in the markets where we operate. Likewise, in the
current condition of the economy and our markets, we may have to adjust our workforce to control
costs and yet not lose our skilled and diverse workforce. Labor-related actions, including
strikes, slowdowns and facility occupations can also have a negative impact on our business.


Our business is subject to geopolitical and terrorism risks.



     Geopolitical risks and terrorist activity continue to grow in several key countries where we
do business. Geopolitical risks could lead to, among other things, a loss of our investment in the
country and an inability to collect our accounts receivable. Terrorism risks could lead to a loss
of our investment in the country, as well as a disruption in business activities. Key oil
producing countries in which we do business include Angola, Brazil, Canada, China, Norway, Russia,
Saudi Arabia, U.K., U.S. and Venezuela.


The terms and the impact of the settlement with the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and SEC may
negatively impact our ongoing operations.



     Under the settlements in connection with the previously disclosed compliance investigations by
the DOJ and SEC, we are subject to ongoing review and regulation of our business operations,
including the review of our operations and compliance program by an independent monitor appointed
to assess our Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) policies and procedures. The activities of
the independent monitor will have a cost to us and may cause a change in our processes and
operations, the outcome of which we are unable to predict. In addition, the settlements may impact
our operations or result in legal actions against us in the countries that are the subject of the
settlements. Also, the collateral impact of settlement in the United States and other countries
outside the United States where we do business that may claim jurisdiction over any of the matters
related to the DOJ and SEC settlements could be material. These settlements could also result in
third-party claims against us, which may include claims for special, indirect, derivative or
consequential damages.


Our failure to comply with the terms of our agreements with the DOJ and SEC would have a negative
impact on our ongoing operations.



     The settlements reached with the DOJ and SEC could be substantially nullified and we could be
subject to severe sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution as well as fines and penalties in
the event of a subsequent violation by us or any of our employees or our failure to meet all of the
conditions contained in the settlements. The impact of the settlements on our ongoing operations
could include limits on revenue growth and increases in operating costs. Our ability to comply
with the terms of the settlements is dependent on the success of our ongoing compliance program,
including our ability to continue to manage our agents and business partners and supervise, train
and retain competent employees and the efforts of our employees to comply with applicable law and
the Baker Hughes Business Code of Conduct.


14




Table of Contents



Compliance with and changes in laws or adverse positions taken by taxing authorities could be
costly and could affect operating results.



     We have operations in the U.S. and in over 90 countries that can be impacted by expected and
unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate. Our ability to
manage our compliance costs will impact our ability to meet our earnings goals. Compliance related
issues could also limit our ability to do business in certain countries. Changes that could impact
the legal environment include new legislation, new regulations, new policies, investigations and
legal proceedings and new interpretations of existing legal rules and regulations, in particular,
changes in export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business
in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries where we operate or intend to
operate. Changes that impact the business environment include changes in accounting standards,
changes in environmental laws, changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of tax assessments
or audits by various tax authorities, and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carryforwards
and tax credits. In addition, we may periodically restructure our legal entity organization. If
taxing authorities were to disagree with our tax positions in connection with any such
restructurings, our effective tax rate could be materially impacted.


     These changes could have a significant financial impact on our future operations and the way
we conduct, or if we conduct, business in the affected countries.


Uninsured claims and litigation could adversely impact our operating results.



     We could be impacted by the outcome of pending litigation as well as unexpected litigation or
proceedings. We have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability
claims and personal injury claims related to our products, to the extent deemed prudent by our
management and to the extent insurance is available, however, no assurance can be given that the
nature and amount of that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities
arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. This insurance has deductibles or
self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. The insurance does not cover
damages from breach of contract by us or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices.
Whenever possible, we obtain agreements from customers that limit our liability. Insurance and
customer agreements do not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of
operations could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance.


Compliance with and rulings and litigation in connection with environmental regulations may
adversely affect our business and operating results.



     Our business is impacted by unexpected outcomes or material changes in environmental
liability. Our expectations regarding our compliance with environmental regulations and our
expenditures to comply with environmental regulations, including (without limitation) our capital
expenditures for environmental control equipment, are only our forecasts regarding these matters.
These forecasts may be substantially different from actual results, which may be affected by the
following factors: changes in environmental regulations; a material change in our allocation or
other unexpected, adverse outcomes with respect to sites where we have been named as a PRP,
including (without limitation) Superfund sites; the discovery of new sites of which we are not
aware and where additional expenditures may be required to comply with environmental regulations;
an unexpected discharge of hazardous materials.


     A variety of regulatory developments, proposals or requirements have been introduced in the
 U.S. and various other countries that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide,
methane and other gases. Among these developments are the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change, also known as the “Kyoto Protocol” (an internationally applied
protocol, which has been ratified in Canada, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative or “RGGI” in
the Northeastern United States, and the Western Regional Climate Action Initiative in the Western
United States). Also, in 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court held in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA that
certain gases are an “air pollutant” under the federal Clean Air Act and thus subject to future
regulation. These developments may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and
gas in areas of the world where customers of the company operate and thus adversely affect
future demand for products and services of the company, which may in turn adversely affect
future results of operations.


Control of oil and gas reserves by state-owned oil companies may impact the demand for our services
and create additional risks in our operations.



     Much of the world’s oil and gas reserves are controlled by state-owned oil companies.
State-owned oil companies may require their contractors to meet local content requirements or other
local standards, such as joint ventures, that could be difficult or undesirable for the Company to
meet. The failure to meet the local content requirements and other local standards may adversely
impact the Company’s operations in those countries.


15




Table of Contents



     In addition, many state-owned oil companies may require integrated contracts or turn-key
contracts that could require the Company to provide services outside its core business. Providing
services on an integrated or turnkey basis generally requires the Company to assume additional
risks.


Changes in economic conditions and currency fluctuations may impact our operating results.



     Fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar can impact our revenue and our
costs of doing business. Most of our products and services are sold through contracts denominated
in U.S. Dollars or local currency indexed to U.S. Dollars. Some revenue and some local expenses
and some of our manufacturing costs are incurred in local currencies and therefore changes in the
exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the British Pound
Sterling, Euro, Canadian Dollar, Norwegian Krone, Russian Ruble, Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real
and the Venezuelan Bolivar (which was devalued by the Venezuelan government in January 2010), can
increase or decrease our revenue and expenses reported in U.S. Dollars and may impact our results
of operations.


     The condition of the capital markets and equity markets in general can affect the price of our
common stock and our ability to obtain financing, if necessary. If the Company’s credit rating is
downgraded, this would increase borrowing costs under our revolving credit agreements and
commercial paper program, as well as the cost of renewing or obtaining, or make it more difficult
to renew or obtain or issue, new debt financing.


Changes in market conditions may impact any stock repurchases.



     To the extent the Company engages in stock repurchases, such activity is subject to market
conditions, such as the trading prices for our stock, as well as the terms of any stock purchase
plans intended to comply with Rule 10b5-1 or Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. Management, in its
discretion, may engage in or discontinue stock repurchases at any time.


Risk Factors Related to the Merger with BJ Services



     Our expectations regarding our business may be impacted by the following risk factors related
to the pending merger with BJ Services:


Failure to complete the merger with BJ Services could negatively affect our stock price and our
future business and financial results.



     Completion of the merger with BJ Services is not assured and is subject to risks, including
the risks that approval of the transaction by stockholders of both Baker Hughes and BJ Services is not obtained or
that certain other closing conditions are not satisfied. If the merger is not completed, our
ongoing business may be adversely affected and will be subject to several risks, including the
following:






     
    •
     
    having to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger without receiving the
benefits of the merger, including in certain circumstances a termination fee of $175
million to BJ Services;



     

     
    •
     
    the attention of our management will have been diverted to the merger instead of on our
operations and pursuit of other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us; and



     

     
    •
     
    resulting negative customer perception could adversely affect our ability to compete
for, or to win, new and renewal business in the marketplace.





We will incur substantial transaction and merger-related costs as well as assume additional debt
from BJ Services in connection with the merger and our stockholders will be diluted by the merger.



     We expect to incur a number of non-recurring transaction and merger-related costs associated
with completing the merger with BJ Services, combining the operations of the two companies and
achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs will be substantial. Additional unanticipated
costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of Baker Hughes and BJ Services.
Although we expect that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of
other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental
transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near
term, or at all. In addition, we will assume approximately $500 million of long-term debt from BJ
Services.


     The merger will dilute the ownership position of our current stockholders who are expected to
hold approximately 72.5% of the combined company’s common stock on a fully diluted basis
immediately after the merger.


16




Table of Contents



If the merger is completed, we will be subject to additional risks.



     The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize these anticipated
benefits from combining the businesses of Baker Hughes and BJ Services. However, to realize these
anticipated benefits, we must successfully integrate the operations and personnel of BJ Services
into our business. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the
merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Because we
and BJ Services have operated independently and, until the completion of the merger, we will
continue to operate independently, it is possible that the integration process could take longer
than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees or the disruption of each
company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices,
policies and compensation arrangements, which could adversely affect the combined company’s ability
to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. The combined company’s results of operations
could also be adversely affected by any issues attributable to either company’s operations that
arise or are based on events or actions that occur prior to the closing of the merger. Further,
the size of the merger may make integration difficult, expensive and disruptive, adversely
affecting our revenues after the merger. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could result
in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect our
future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. In addition, we may not be
able to eliminate duplicative costs or realize other efficiencies from integrating the businesses
to offset part or all of the transaction and merger-related costs incurred by us.


     Our performance following the merger, could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain
and maintain high technology equipment and certain key employees and to a greater extent by the
skilled labor shortages of certain types of qualified personnel, including engineers, project
managers, field supervisors, linemen and other qualified personnel, which both Baker Hughes and BJ
Services have from time-to-time experienced. These shortages have also negatively impacted, and
may continue to negatively impact, the productivity and profitability of certain projects and can
result in lost sales during periods of unanticipated demand. Our inability to bid on new and
attractive projects, or maintain productivity and profitability on existing projects, including
ones developed by BJ Services, due to the limited supply of high technology equipment and skilled
workers could negatively affect our profitability and results of operation.


     In addition, the approval or regulatory requirements of certain government or regulatory
agencies in connection with the merger could contain terms, conditions, or restrictions, such as
the divestiture of assets or line of business that would be detrimental to the Company after the
merger. Additionally, even after the statutory waiting period under the anti-trust laws and even
after completion of the merger, governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge the
merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest. In addition, in some
jurisdictions, a competitor, customer or other third party could initiate a private action under
the antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger, before or after it is completed.
The Company or BJ Services may not prevail and may incur significant costs in defending or settling
any action under the anti-trust laws.


     Upon consummation of the merger, a portion of the combined company’s revenues will be derived from its North
American operations. Because of the economic environment and related decrease in demand for energy, natural
gas exploration and production in North America have decreased significantly from their peak levels
in the summer of 2008. Many factors may adversely impact demand for natural gas and, therefore,
demand for oilfield services. Further decline in natural gas exploration and production could
cause a decline in the demand for the services and products of the combined company. Such decline
could result in a significant adverse effect on our operating results and the expected benefits of
the merger.


     In addition to disclosures in this annual report regarding the Company’s settlements, as
further described in its SEC filings, BJ Services has voluntarily disclosed information found in its
internal investigations to the DOJ and SEC and has engaged in discussions with these authorities in
connection with their review of possible illegal payments. Neither BJ Services nor the Company can
currently predict the outcome of its investigations, when any of these matters will be resolved, or
what, if any, actions may be taken by the DOJ, SEC, Baker
Hughes’ independent monitor or other authorities or the effect the
actions may have on the business or consolidated financial statements of the
combined company. If the DOJ or SEC were to take action for failure to comply with the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or terms of agreements with such agencies, it could significantly
affect our results of operations.


     While a settlement has been proposed in connection with the pending stockholder class action
litigation against BJ Services, its directors and certain officers and Baker Hughes in connection
with the merger, the litigation could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results
of operations following the merger if the proposed settlement has not been completed.


Demand for the combined company’s products and services, including pressure pumping services, could
be reduced or eliminated by governmental regulation or a change in the law.



     Upon completion of the merger, pressure pumping services will account for approximately 20% of
the combined company’s revenue. Recently, legislation has been introduced in the United States
Congress that would authorize the Environmental Protection



17






Table of Contents



Agency to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Clean Water Act. Such regulations
could greatly reduce or eliminate demand for the combined company’s pressure pumping services. If
such regulation were enacted, the combined company could suffer a significant decrease in revenue.
We are unable to predict whether the proposed legislation or any other proposals will ultimately be
enacted, and if so, the impact on the combined company’s business.






ITEM 1B