ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



     An investment in our common stock involves various risks. When considering an investment in
our company, you should consider carefully all of the risk factors described below, as well as
other information included and incorporated by reference in this report. These risks and
uncertainties are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional matters that we are
unaware of or that we currently consider immaterial. All of these could adversely affect our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and, thus, the value of an
investment in our company.


Risk Factors Related to the Worldwide Oil and Natural Gas Industry



     Our business is focused on providing products and services to the worldwide oil and natural
gas industry; therefore, our risk factors include those factors that impact, either positively or
negatively, the markets for oil and natural gas. Expenditures by our customers for exploration,
development and production of oil and natural gas are based on their expectations of future
hydrocarbon demand, the risks associated with developing the reserves and the future value of the
hydrocarbon reserves. Their evaluation of the future value is based, in part, on their
expectations for global demand, global supply and other factors that influence oil and natural gas
prices. The key risk factors currently influencing the worldwide oil and natural gas markets are
discussed below.

Demand for oil and natural gas is subject to factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect
our operating results.



     Growth in worldwide demand for oil and natural gas, as well as the demand for our services, is
highly correlated with global economic growth — and in particular by the economic growth of
countries such as the U.S. and China, who are significant users of oil and natural gas. Increases
in global economic activity, particularly in China and developing Asia, create more demand for oil
and natural gas and higher oil and natural gas prices. A slowing of global economic growth, and in
particular in the U.S. or China, will likely reduce demand for oil and natural gas, increase excess
productive capacity and result in lower prices and adversely impact the demand for our services.

Volatility of oil and natural gas prices can adversely affect demand for our products and services.



     Volatility in oil and natural gas prices can also impact our customers’ activity levels and
spending for our products and services. While current energy prices are important contributors to
positive cash flow for our customers, expectations about future prices and price volatility are
generally more important for determining future spending levels. While higher oil and natural gas
prices generally lead to increased spending by our customers, sustained high energy prices can be
an impediment to economic growth, and can therefore negatively impact spending by our customers.
Our customers also take into account the volatility of energy prices and other risk factors by
requiring higher returns for individual projects if there is higher perceived risk. Any of these
factors could affect the demand for oil and natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations.


16




Table of Contents


Supply of oil and natural gas is subject to factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect
our operating results.



     Productive capacity for oil and natural gas is dependent on our customers’ decisions to
develop and produce oil and natural gas reserves. The ability to produce oil and natural gas can
be affected by the number and productivity of new wells drilled and completed, as well as the rate
of production and resulting depletion of existing wells. Advanced technologies, such as horizontal
drilling, improve total recovery but also result in a more rapid production decline.


     Access to prospects and capital are also important to our customers. Access to prospects may
be limited because host governments do not allow access to the reserves or because another oil and
natural gas exploration company owns the rights to develop the prospect. Access to capital is
dependent on our customers’ ability to access the funds necessary to develop economically
attractive projects based on their expectations of future energy prices, required investments and
resulting returns. Government regulations and the costs incurred by oil and natural gas
exploration companies to conform to and comply with government regulations, may also limit the
quantity of oil and natural gas that may be economically produced.


     Supply can be interrupted by a number of factors including political instability, civil
unrest, labor issues, terrorist attacks, war or military activity. Key oil producing countries
which could be subject to supply interruptions include, but are not limited to, Saudi Arabia, Iran,
Iraq and other Middle Eastern countries, Nigeria, Norway, Russia and Venezuela. The impact of
supply and demand disruptions on oil and natural gas prices and oil and natural gas price
volatility is tempered by the size and expected duration of the disruption relative to the excess
productive capacity at the time of the disruption.


     Supply can also be impacted by the degree to which individual Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) nations and other large oil and natural gas producing countries,
including, but not limited to, Mexico, Norway and Russia, are willing and able to control
production and exports of oil, to decrease or increase supply and to support their targeted oil
price while meeting their market share objectives. Any of these factors could affect the supply of
oil and natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.


Excess productive capacity and future demand impact our operations.



     Oil and natural gas storage inventory levels are an indicator of the relative balance between
supply and demand. High or increasing storage or inventories generally indicate that supply is
exceeding demand and that energy prices are likely to soften. Low or decreasing storage or
inventories are an indicator that demand is growing faster than supply and that energy prices are
likely to rise. Measures of maximum productive capacity compared to demand (“excess productive
capacity”) are also an important factor influencing energy prices and spending by oil and natural
gas exploration companies. When excess productive capacity is low compared to demand, energy
prices tend to be higher and more volatile reflecting the increased vulnerability of the entire
system to disruption.


Seasonal and adverse weather conditions adversely affect demand for our services and operations.



     Weather can also have a significant impact on demand as consumption of energy is seasonal and
any variation from normal weather patterns, cooler or warmer summers and winters, can have a
significant impact on demand. Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of
Mexico, may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers’ operations, cause supply
disruptions and result in a loss of revenue and damage to our equipment and facilities, which may
or may not be insured.


Risk Factors Related to Our Business



     Our expectations regarding our business are affected by the following risk factors and the
timing of any of these risk factors:


We operate in a highly competitive environment, which may adversely affect our ability to succeed.



     We operate in a highly competitive environment for marketing oil and natural gas and securing
equipment and trained personnel. Our ability to continually provide competitive products and
services can impact our ability to maintain or increase prices for our products and services,
maintain market share and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. In order to be
competitive, we must provide new technologies, and reliable products and services that perform as
expected and that create value for our customers. Our ability to maintain or increase prices for
our products and services is in part dependent on the industry’s capacity relative to customer
demand, and on our ability to differentiate the value delivered by our products and services from
our competitor’s products and services. In addition, our ability to negotiate acceptable contract
terms and conditions with our customers, especially state–owned national oil companies, our ability
to manage warranty claims and our ability to effectively manage our commercial agents can also
impact our results of operations.


17




Table of Contents



     Managing development of competitive technology and new product introductions on a forecasted
schedule and at forecasted costs can impact our financial results. Development of competing
technology that accelerates the obsolescence of any of our products or services can have a
detrimental impact on our financial results and can result in the potential impairment of
long-lived assets.


     We may be disadvantaged competitively and financially by a significant movement of exploration
and production operations to areas of the world in which we are not currently active.

The high cost or unavailability of materials, equipment, supplies and personnel could adversely
affect our ability to execute our operations on a timely basis.



     Our manufacturing operations are dependent on having sufficient raw materials, component parts
and manufacturing capacity available to meet our manufacturing plans at a reasonable cost while
minimizing inventories. Our ability to effectively manage our manufacturing operations and meet
these goals can have an impact on our business, including our ability to meet our manufacturing
plans and revenue goals, control costs and avoid shortages of raw materials and component parts.
Raw materials and components of particular concern include steel alloys, copper, carbide, chemicals
and electronic components. Our ability to repair or replace equipment damaged or lost in the well
can also impact our ability to service our customers.


     People are a key resource to developing, manufacturing and delivering our products and
services to our customers around the world. Our ability to recruit, train and retain the highly
skilled workforce required by our plans will impact our business. A well-trained, motivated work
force has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business. Rapid growth presents a
challenge to us and our industry to recruit, train and retain our employees while managing the
impact of wage inflation and potential lack of available qualified labor in the markets where we
operate. Labor-related actions, including strikes, slowdowns and facility occupations can also
have a negative impact on our business.

Compliance with and changes in laws and regulations and risks from investigations and legal
proceedings could be costly and could adversely affect operating results.



     Our operations in the U.S. and over 90 countries can be impacted by expected and unexpected
changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate, as well as the outcome of
ongoing government and internal investigations and legal proceedings.


     Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulation, new
policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of the existing legal rules
and regulations. In particular, changes in export control laws or exchange control laws,
additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in
Russia or other countries identified by management for immediate focus. Changes that impact the
business environment include changes in accounting standards, changes in environmental laws,
changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of audits by various tax authorities, and the
ability to fully utilize our tax loss carryforwards and tax credits. Compliance related issues
could limit our ability to do business in certain countries.


     These changes could have a significant financial impact on our future operations and the way
we conduct, or if we conduct, business in the affected countries.

Uninsured claims and litigation could adversely impact our operating results.



     We have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and
personal injury claims related to our products, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and
to the extent insurance is available, but no assurance can be given that the nature and amount of
that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending
and future claims and litigation. This insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and
contains certain coverage exclusions. The insurance does not cover damages from breach of contract
by us or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices. Whenever possible, we obtain
agreements from customers that limit our liability. Insurance and customer agreements do not
provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of operations could be
adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance.

Compliance with and rulings and litigation in connection with environmental regulations may
adversely affect our business and operating results.



     Our business is impacted by unexpected outcomes or material changes in environmental
liability. Changes in our environmental liability could originate with the discovery of new
environmental remediation sites, changes in environmental regulations, or the discharge of
hazardous materials or oil and natural gas into the environment.


18




Table of Contents


Changes in economic conditions and currency fluctuations may adversely affect our operating
results.



     Fluctuation in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar can impact our costs of doing
business. Most of our products and services are sold through contracts denominated in U.S. Dollars
or local currency indexed to U.S. Dollars. Local expenses and some of our manufacturing costs are
incurred in local currencies and therefore changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar
and foreign currencies, particularly the British Pound Sterling, Euro, Canadian Dollar, Norwegian
Krone, Venezuelan Bolivar, Australian Dollar and Brazilian Real, can increase or decrease our U.S.
Dollar expenses and impact our operating margins. The majority of our significant foreign
subsidiaries have designated the local currency as their functional currency and, as such, gains
and losses resulting from balance sheet translation of foreign operations are included as a
separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity. Gains and
losses from foreign currency transactions, such as those resulting from the settlement of
receivables or payables in the non–functional currency, are included in the consolidated statements
of operations as incurred. For those foreign subsidiaries that have designated the U.S. Dollar as
the functional currency, gains and losses resulting from balance sheet translation of foreign
operations are also included in the consolidated statements of operations as incurred. Such
transaction and translation losses may adversely impact our results of operations.


     The condition of the capital markets and equity markets in general can affect the price of our
common stock and our ability to obtain financing, if necessary. If the Company’s credit rating is
downgraded, this would increase our costs under our credit agreement, as well as the cost of
obtaining, or make it more difficult to obtain or issue, new debt financing.


     Our ability to forecast the size of and changes in the worldwide oil and natural gas industry
and our ability to forecast our customers’ activity levels and demand for our products and services
impacts our management of our manufacturing and distribution activities, our staffing levels and
our cash and financing requirements. Unanticipated changes in our customers’ requirements can
impact our costs, creating temporary shortages or surpluses of equipment and people and demands for
cash or financing.


The market price of our common stock may fluctuate.



     Historically, the market price of common stock of companies engaged in the oil and natural gas
industry has been highly volatile. Likewise, the market price of our common stock has varied
significantly in the past. News announcements and changes in oil and natural gas prices, changes
in the demand for oil and natural gas exploration and changes in the supply and demand for oil and
natural gas have all been factors that have affected the price of our common stock.





ITEM 1B