ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



     An investment in our common stock involves various risks. When considering an investment in
our Company, one should consider carefully all of the risk factors described below, as well as
other information included and incorporated by reference in this report. There may be additional
risks, uncertainties and matters not listed below, that we are unaware of, or that we currently
consider immaterial. Any of these could adversely affect our business, financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows and, thus, the value of an investment in our Company.


8




Table of Contents



Risk Factors Related to the Worldwide Oil and Natural Gas Industry



     Our business is focused on providing products and services to the worldwide oil and natural
gas industry; therefore, our risk factors include those factors that impact, either positively or
negatively, the markets for oil and natural gas. Expenditures by our customers for exploration,
development and production of oil and natural gas are based on their expectations of future
hydrocarbon demand, the risks associated with developing the reserves, their ability to finance
exploration for and development of reserves, and the future value of the reserves. Their
evaluation of the future value is based, in part, on their expectations for global demand, global
supply, excess production capacity, inventory levels, and other factors that influence oil and
natural gas prices. The key risk factors we believe are currently influencing the worldwide oil
and natural gas markets are discussed below.


Demand for oil and natural gas is subject to factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect
our operating results. Changes in the global economy or changes in the ability of our customers to
access equity or credit markets could impact our customers’ spending levels and our revenues and
operating results.



     Demand for oil and natural gas, as well as the demand for our services, is highly correlated
with global economic growth, and in particular by the economic growth of countries such as the
U.S., India, and China, as well as developing countries in Asia and the Middle East who are either
significant users of oil and natural gas or whose economies are experiencing the most rapid
economic growth compared to the global average. The past slowdown in global economic growth and
recession in the developed economies resulted in reduced demand for oil and natural gas, increased
spare productive capacity and lower energy prices. Weakness or deterioration of the global economy
or credit market could reduce our customers’ spending levels and reduce our revenues and operating
results. Incremental weakness in global economic activity, particularly in China, India, the
Middle East and developing countries in Asia will reduce demand for oil and natural gas and result
in lower oil and natural gas prices. Incremental strength in global economic activity in such
areas will create more demand for oil and natural gas and support higher oil and natural gas
prices. In addition, demand for oil and natural gas could be impacted by environmental regulation,
including “cap and trade” legislation, carbon taxes and the cost for carbon capture and
sequestration related regulations.


Volatility of oil and natural gas prices can adversely affect demand for our products and services.



     Volatility in oil and natural gas prices can also impact our customers’ activity levels and
spending for our products and services. Current energy prices are important contributors to cash
flow for our customers and their ability to fund exploration and development activities.
Expectations about future prices and price volatility are important for determining future spending
levels.


     Lower oil and gas prices generally lead to decreased spending by our customers. While higher
oil and natural gas prices generally lead to increased spending by our customers, sustained high
energy prices can be an impediment to economic growth, and can therefore negatively impact spending
by our customers. Our customers also take into account the volatility of energy prices and other
risk factors by requiring higher returns for individual projects if there is higher perceived risk.
Any of these factors could affect the demand for oil and natural gas and could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.


Our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services and ability to pay
amounts owed us could be impacted by economic conditions.



     Access to capital is dependent on our customers’ ability to access the funds necessary to
develop economically attractive projects based upon their expectations of future energy prices,
required investments and resulting returns. Limited access to external sources of funding has and
may continue to cause customers to reduce their capital spending plans to levels supported by
internally-generated cash flow. In addition, a reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in
commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities or the lack
of availability of debt or equity financing may impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts
owed to us.


Supply of oil and natural gas is subject to factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect
our operating results.



     Productive capacity for oil and natural gas is dependent on our customers’ decisions to
develop and produce oil and natural gas reserves. The ability to produce oil and natural gas can
be affected by the number and productivity of new wells drilled and completed, as well as the rate
of production and resulting depletion of existing wells. Advanced technologies, such as horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing, improve total recovery but also result in a more rapid
production decline.

     Access to prospects is also important to our customers. Access to prospects may be limited
because host governments do not allow access to the reserves or because another oil and natural gas
exploration company owns the rights to develop the prospect. 
9




Table of Contents




Government regulations and the costs
incurred by oil and natural gas exploration companies to conform to and comply with government
regulations, may also limit the quantity of oil and natural gas that may be economically produced.


     Supply can also be impacted by the degree to which individual Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) nations and other large oil and natural gas producing countries,
including, but not limited to, Norway and Russia, are willing and able to control production and
exports of oil, to decrease or increase supply and to support their targeted oil price while
meeting their market share objectives. Any of these factors could affect the supply of oil and
natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.


Changes in spare productive capacity or inventory levels can be indicative of future customer
spending to explore for and develop oil and natural gas which in turn influences the demand for our
products and services.



     Spare productive capacity and oil and natural gas storage inventory levels are an indicator of
the relative balance between supply and demand. High or increasing storage or inventories
generally indicate that supply is exceeding demand and that energy prices are likely to soften.
Low or decreasing storage or inventories are an indicator that demand is growing faster than supply
and that energy prices are likely to rise. Measures of maximum productive capacity compared to
demand (“spare productive capacity”) are also an important factor influencing energy prices and
spending by oil and natural gas exploration companies. When spare productive capacity is low
compared to demand, energy prices tend to be higher and more volatile reflecting the increased
vulnerability of the entire system to disruption.


Seasonal and adverse weather conditions adversely affect demand for our services and operations.



     Weather can also have a significant impact on demand as consumption of energy is seasonal, and
any variation from normal weather patterns, cooler or warmer summers and winters, can have a
significant impact on demand. Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of
Mexico, may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers’ operations, cause supply
disruptions and result in a loss of revenue and damage to our equipment and facilities, which may
or may not be insured. Extreme winter conditions in Canada, Russia or the North Sea may interrupt
or curtail our operations, or our customers’ operations, in those areas and result in a loss of
revenue.


Risk Factors Related to Our Business



     Our expectations regarding our business are affected by the following risk factors and the
timing of any of these risk factors:


We operate in a highly competitive environment, which may adversely affect our ability to succeed.



     We operate in a highly competitive environment for marketing oilfield services and securing
equipment and trained personnel. Our ability to continually provide competitive products and
services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and
services, maintain market share and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. In
order to be competitive, we must provide new technologies and reliable products and services that
perform as expected and that create value for our customers. Our ability to defend, maintain or
increase prices for our products and services is in part dependent on the industry’s capacity
relative to customer demand, and on our ability to differentiate the value delivered by our
products and services from our competitors’ products and services. In addition, our ability to
negotiate acceptable contract terms and conditions with our customers, especially state-owned
national oil companies, our ability to manage warranty claims and our ability to effectively manage
our commercial agents can also impact our results of operations.


     Managing development of competitive technology and new product introductions on a forecasted
schedule and at forecasted costs can impact our financial results. Development of competing
technology that accelerates the obsolescence of any of our products or services can have a
detrimental impact on our financial results.


     We may be disadvantaged competitively and financially by a significant movement of exploration
and production operations to areas of the world in which we are not currently active.


The high cost or unavailability of infrastructure, materials, equipment, supplies and personnel,
particularly in periods of rapid growth, could adversely affect our ability to execute our
operations on a timely basis.

     Our manufacturing operations are dependent on having sufficient raw materials, component parts
and manufacturing capacity available to meet our manufacturing plans at a reasonable cost while
minimizing inventories. Our ability to effectively manage our manufacturing operations and meet
these goals can have an impact on our business, including our ability
to meet our manufacturing
10




Table of Contents






plans and revenue goals, control costs and avoid shortages of raw materials and component parts.
Raw materials and components of particular concern include steel alloys (including chromium and
nickel), titanium, beryllium, copper, lead, tungsten carbide, synthetic and natural diamonds, guar,
sand and other proppants, printed circuit boards and other electronic components and
hydrocarbon-based chemical feed stocks. Our ability to repair or replace equipment damaged or lost
in the well can also impact our ability to service our customers. A lack of manufacturing capacity
could result in increased backlog, which may limit our ability to respond to short lead time
orders.


     People are a key resource to developing, manufacturing and delivering our products and
services to our customers around the world. Our ability to manage the recruiting, training and
retention of the highly skilled workforce required by our plans and to manage the associated costs
could impact our business. A well-trained, motivated work force has a positive impact on our
ability to attract and retain business. Periods of rapid growth present a challenge to us and our
industry to recruit, train and retain our employees while managing the impact of wage inflation and
potential lack of available qualified labor in the markets where we operate. Likewise, when there
is a downturn in the economy or our markets, we may have to adjust our workforce to control costs
and yet not lose our skilled and diverse workforce. Labor-related actions, including strikes,
slowdowns and facility occupations can also have a negative impact on our business.


Our business is subject to geopolitical, terrorism risks and other threats.



     Geopolitical
and terrorism risks continue to grow in several key countries where we
do business. Geopolitical and terrorism risks could lead to, among other things, a loss of our investment in the
country, impair the safety of our employees and impair our ability to
conduct our operations.


Our informational technology systems are subject to possible breaches and other threats that
could threaten our intellectual property,  impair our ability to conduct our operations and cause other damages or loss.


Our failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) would have a negative impact
on our ongoing operations.



     We entered into settlements with the DOJ and SEC in April 2007 relating to violations of the
FCPA by the Company. Our ability to comply with the FCPA is dependent on the success of our
ongoing compliance program, including our ability to continue to manage our agents and business
partners and supervise, train and retain competent employees and the efforts of our employees to
comply with applicable law and the Baker Hughes Business Code of Conduct. We would be subject to
severe sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution as well as fines and penalties in the event of
a finding of an additional violation of the FCPA by us or any of our employees.


Compliance with and changes in laws or adverse positions taken by taxing authorities could be
costly and could affect operating results.



     We have operations in the U.S. and in over 80 countries that can be impacted by expected and
unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate. Our ability to
manage our compliance costs and compliance programs will impact our ability to meet our earnings
goals. Compliance related issues could also limit our ability to do business in certain countries.
Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulations, new
policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of existing legal rules and
regulations, in particular, changes in export control laws or exchange control laws, additional
restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries
where we operate or intend to operate. Changes that impact the business environment include
changes in accounting standards, changes in environmental laws, changes in tax laws or tax rates,
the resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities, and the ability to fully
utilize our
tax loss carryforwards and tax credits. In addition, we may periodically restructure our
legal entity organization. If taxing authorities were to disagree with our tax positions in
connection with any such restructurings, our effective tax rate could be materially impacted.


     These changes could have a significant financial impact on our future operations and the way
we conduct, or if we conduct, business in the affected countries.


The
May 2010 prior moratorium on drilling offshore in the U.S., as well as changes in and compliance with
restrictions or regulations on offshore drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and in other areas
around the world, has and may continue to adversely affect our business and operating results and
reduce the need for our services in those areas.



     While the moratorium on drilling offshore in the U.S. was lifted on October 12, 2010, there is
a delay in resuming permitting of operations related to drilling offshore in the U.S. and there is
no assurance that operations related to drilling offshore in the U.S. will reach the same levels
that existed prior to the moratorium. The delay in resuming these activities or the failure of
these activities to reach levels that existed prior to the moratorium has and could continue to
adversely impact our operating results. The April 2010 Deepwater Horizon accident in the Gulf of
Mexico and its aftermath has resulted in new and proposed legislation
and regulation in the 
11




Table of Contents



U.S. of
the offshore oil and gas industry, which may result in substantial increases in costs or delays in
drilling or other operations in the Gulf of Mexico, oil and gas projects becoming potentially
non-economic, and a corresponding reduced demand for our services. We cannot predict with any
certainty the impact of the prior moratorium or the substance or effect of any new or additional
regulations. If the U.S. or other countries where we operate, enact stricter restrictions on
offshore drilling or further regulate offshore drilling or contracting services operations, including without limitation cementing, higher
operating costs could result and adversely affect our business and operating
results.


Uninsured claims and litigation against us could adversely impact our operating results.



     We could be impacted by the outcome of pending litigation as well as unexpected litigation or
proceedings. We have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability
claims and personal injury claims related to our products, to the extent deemed prudent by our
management and to the extent insurance is available; however, no assurance can be given that the
nature and amount of that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities
arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. This insurance has deductibles or
self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. The insurance does not cover
damages from breach of contract by us or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices. In
addition, the following risks apply with respect to our insurance coverage:






     
    •
     
    we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms;



     

     
    •
     
    we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance;



     

     
    •
     
    our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or



     

     
    •
     
    the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits.





     Whenever possible, we obtain agreements from customers that limit our liability. However,
state law, laws or public policy in countries outside the U.S., or the negotiated terms of the
agreement with the customer may not recognize those limitations of liability and/or limit the
customer’s indemnity obligations to the Company. In addition, insurance and customer agreements do
not provide complete protection against losses and risks from an event, like a well blow out that
can lead to property damage, personal injury, death or the discharge of hazardous materials into
the environment. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not
covered by insurance.


Compliance with and rulings and litigation in connection with environmental regulations may
adversely affect our business and operating results.



     Our business is impacted by unexpected outcomes or material changes in environmental
regulations. Our expectations regarding our compliance with environmental regulations and our
expenditures to comply with environmental regulations, including (without limitation) our capital
expenditures for environmental control equipment, are only our forecasts regarding these matters.
These forecasts may be substantially different from actual results, which may be affected by the
following factors: changes in environmental regulations; a material change in our allocation or
other unexpected, adverse outcomes with respect to sites where we have been named as a PRP,
including (without limitation) Superfund sites; the discovery of new sites of which we are not
aware and where additional expenditures may be required to comply with environmental regulations;
an unexpected discharge of hazardous materials.


     International, national, and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and
promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse
gas (“GHG”) emissions. In the U.S., the EPA has taken steps to regulate GHGs as pollutants under
the Clean Air Act (“CAA”). The EPA’s “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases” rule established a
comprehensive scheme of regulations that require monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions that
began in 2010. Furthermore, the
EPA recently proposed additional GHG reporting rules specifically for the oil and gas
industry. The EPA has also published a final rule, the “Endangerment Finding,” indicating that
GHGs in the atmosphere endanger public health and welfare, and that emissions of


GHGs from mobile
sources cause or contribute to the GHG pollution. Following issuance of the Endangerment Finding,
the EPA promulgated final motor vehicle GHG emission standards on April 1, 2010. These
developments may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the
world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which
may in turn adversely affect future results of operations.



     International developments focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide and other
GHGs include the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, also known as the “Kyoto
Protocol” (an internationally applied protocol, which has been ratified in Canada) and the European
Union’s Emission Trading System. The Carbon Reduction Commitment in the U.K. is the first cap and
trade scheme to affect Baker Hughes facilities. Domestic cap and trade programs include the
Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative or in the Northeastern United States, and the Western Regional
Climate Action Initiative in the Western United States. A federal cap and trade regime may
develop in the U.S. as well. These developments may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels

12




Table of Contents



such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect
future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect future results of operations.


Demand for pressure pumping services could be reduced or eliminated by governmental regulation or a
change in the law.



     The EPA plans to study hydraulic fracturing practices, and legislation may be introduced in the U.S. Congress that would
authorize the EPA to regulate hydraulic fracturing. In addition, a number of states are evaluating the
adoption of legislation or regulations governing hydraulic fracturing. Such federal or state
legislation and/or regulations could impair our operations and/or greatly reduce or eliminate
demand for the Company’s pressure pumping services. Such legislation and/or regulations, if
enacted, could adversely affect future results of operations. We are unable to predict whether the
proposed legislation or any other proposals will ultimately be enacted, and if so, the impact on
the Company’s business.


Control of oil and gas reserves by state-owned oil companies may impact the demand for our services
and create additional risks in our operations.



     Much of the world’s oil and gas reserves are controlled by state-owned oil companies.
State-owned oil companies may require their contractors to meet local content requirements or other
local standards, such as joint ventures, that could be difficult or undesirable for the Company to
meet. The failure to meet the local content requirements and other local standards may adversely
impact the Company’s operations in those countries.


     In addition, many state-owned oil companies may require integrated contracts or turn-key
contracts that could require the Company to provide services outside its core business. Providing
services on an integrated or turnkey basis generally requires the Company to assume additional
risks.


Changes in economic conditions and currency fluctuations may impact our operating results.



     Fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar can impact our revenue and our
costs of doing business. Most of our products and services are sold through contracts denominated
in U.S. Dollars or local currency indexed to U.S. Dollars; however, some of our revenue, local
expenses and manufacturing costs are incurred in local currencies and therefore changes in the
exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the British Pound
Sterling, Euro, Canadian Dollar, Norwegian Krone, Russian Ruble, Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real
and the Venezuelan Bolivar (which, for example, was devalued by the Venezuelan government in
January 2010), can increase or decrease our revenue and expenses reported in U.S. Dollars and may
impact our results of operations.


     The condition of the capital markets and equity markets in general can affect the price of our
common stock and our ability to obtain financing, if necessary. If the Company’s credit rating is
downgraded, this would increase borrowing costs under our revolving credit agreements and
commercial paper program, as well as the cost of renewing or obtaining, or make it more difficult
to renew or obtain or issue, new debt financing.


Changes in market conditions may impact any stock repurchases.



     To the extent the Company engages in stock repurchases, such activity is subject to market
conditions, such as the trading prices for our stock, as well as the terms of any stock purchase
plans intended to comply with Rule 10b5-1 or Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. Management, in its
discretion, may engage in or discontinue stock repurchases at any time.


The merger with BJ Services may create additional risks for the Company.



     The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize certain anticipated
benefits from combining the businesses of Baker Hughes and BJ Services. However, to realize these
anticipated benefits, we must successfully integrate the operations and personnel of BJ Services
and our existing business. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated
benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than
expected. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases
in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect our future business, financial
condition, operating results and prospects.


     During the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately one-half of our revenue and
approximately two-thirds of our profit before tax were attributable to North America. A decrease
in demand for energy, natural gas exploration and production, or an increase in competition, in North America could result in a
significant adverse effect on our operating results and the expected benefits of the merger.


13




Table of Contents




     Prior to the merger, BJ Services voluntarily disclosed information found in its internal
investigations to the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and SEC and engaged in discussions with these
authorities in connection with their review of possible illegal payments. The Company cannot
currently predict the outcome of these investigations, when any of these matters will be resolved,
or what, if any, actions may be taken by the DOJ, the SEC or other authorities or the effect the
actions may have on the business or consolidated financial statements of the Company. If the DOJ
or SEC were to take action for failure to comply with the FCPA, it could significantly affect our
results of operations.


     In October of 2010, the Company made voluntary disclosures on behalf of BJ Services to the Department of Commerce and the Department of State for potential
export control  violations that occurred prior to the merger.
 The Department of State has issued a letter that notified the Company that
they will not be taking any further action or imposing any penalty in
relation to the disclosures that were filed with them.
It is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome or
penalty amounts that may be imposed by the Department of Commerce.





ITEM 1B