Item 1A — Risk Factors” entitled
    “Our near terms success depends on the market acceptance
    and successful launch of our third product TYSABRI” and
    “Pending and future product liability claims may adversely
    affect our business and our reputation.”


 


    If we seek to make certain changes to an approved product, such
    as adding a new indication, making certain manufacturing
    changes, or changing manufacturers or suppliers of certain
    ingredients or components, we will need review and approval by
    regulatory authorities, including FDA and EMEA, before certain
    changes can be implemented.


 


    Under the U.S. Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug
    designation to drugs intended to treat a “rare disease or
    condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that
    affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. Orphan
    drug designation must be requested before submitting a BLA or
    NDA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic
    identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use
    are publicly disclosed by



    
    19



Table of Contents




    the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage
    in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and
    approval process. If a product which has an orphan drug
    designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the
    indication for which it has such designation, the product is
    entitled to orphan exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not approve
    any other applications to market the same drug for the same
    indication for a period of seven years following marketing
    approval, except in certain very limited circumstances,
    including a showing of clinical superiority. ZEVALIN received
    orphan drug exclusivity in the U.S., which will expire in
    February 2009.


 


    Most of our marketed products, including AVONEX, RITUXAN,
    ZEVALIN and TYSABRI, are licensed under the Public Health
    Service Act as biological products. Currently, all biological
    products (including follow-on biologics) must submit a full
    biologics license application (BLA) to the FDA and undergo
    rigorous review prior to approval. Unlike small molecule generic
    drugs subject to the generic drug provisions (Hatch-Waxman Act)
    of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as described below,
    there currently is no process in the US for the submission of
    applications based upon abbreviated data packages like those
    submitted to form the approval of a generic drug for follow-on
    biologics. In Europe, the EMEA has issued guidelines and the
    first biosimilar has been approved. The US government has also
    begun a process to determine the scientific and statutory basis
    upon which follow-on biologics could be marketed in the US. The
    FDA is engaged in an ongoing public dialogue regarding the
    appropriate scientific standards for these products. Key members
    of the U.S. Congress are considering legislation to allow
    for the approval of follow-on biologics but have not yet
    formally introduced legislation. We cannot be certain when, or
    if, Congress will pass such a law. We cannot predict what
    impact, if any, the approval of follow-on biologics will have on
    the sales of our products.


 


    We are developing small molecule products. If development is
    successful, these products may be approved as drugs under the
    Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Under the Drug Price
    Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also known
    as the Hatch-Waxman Act, Congress created an abbreviated FDA
    review process for generic versions of pioneer (brand name)
    small molecule drug products. The Hatch-Waxman Act created two
    pathways for abbreviated FDA review in the Federal Food, Drug,
    and Cosmetic Act. The first is the abbreviated new drug
    application (ANDA), a type of application in which approval is
    based on a showing of “sameness” to an already
    approved drug product. ANDAs do not need to contain full reports
    of safety and effectiveness, as do new drug applications (NDAs),
    but rather are required to demonstrate that their proposed
    products are “the same as” reference products with
    regard to their conditions of use, active ingredient(s), route
    of administration, dosage form, strength, and labeling. ANDA
    applicants are also required to demonstrate the
    “bioequivalence” of their products to the reference
    product. The second is a 505(b)(2) application, or an NDA for
    which one or more of the investigations relied upon by the
    applicant for approval was not conducted by or for the applicant
    and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of
    reference or use from the person by or for whom the
    investigation was conducted. The FDA has determined that
    505(b)(2) applications may be submitted for products that
    represent changes from approved products in conditions of use,
    active ingredient(s), route of administration, dosage form,
    strength, or bioavailability. A 505(b)(2) applicant must provide
    the FDA with any additional clinical data necessary to
    demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the product with the
    proposed change(s).


 


    In addition to providing for the abbreviated review process, the
    Hatch-Waxman Act also provides for the restoration of a portion
    of the patent term lost during small molecule product
    development. In addition, the statute establishes a complex set
    of processes for notifying sponsors of pioneer products of ANDA
    and 505(b)(2) applicants that may infringe patents and to permit
    sponsors of pioneer drugs an opportunity to pursue patent
    litigation prior to FDA approval of the generic product. The
    Hatch-Waxman Act also awards non-patent marketing exclusivities
    to qualifying pioneer drug products. For example, the first
    applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a product that does not
    contain an active ingredient found in any other approved product
    is awarded five years of “new chemical entity”
    marketing exclusivity. Where this exclusivity is awarded, the
    FDA is prohibited from accepting any ANDAs or 505(b)(2)
    applications during the five-year period. The Hatch-Waxman Act
    also provides three years of “new use” marketing
    exclusivity for the approval of NDAs, 505(b)(2) applications,
    and supplements, where those applications contain the results of
    new clinical investigations (other than bioavailability studies)
    essential to the FDA’s approval of the applications.
    Provided that the new clinical investigations are essential to
    the FDA’s approval of the change, this three-year
    exclusivity prohibits the final approval of ANDAs or 505(b)(2)
    applications for products with the specific changes associated
    with those clinical investigations.



    
    20



Table of Contents



 


    The FDA, the EMEA and other regulatory agencies regulate and
    inspect equipment, facilities, and processes used in the
    manufacturing of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to
    providing approval to market a product. If after receiving
    clearance from regulatory agencies, a material change is made in
    manufacturing equipment, location, or process, additional
    regulatory review and approval may be required. We also must
    adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and
    product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its
    facilities inspection program. The FDA, the EMEA and other
    regulatory agencies also conduct regular, periodic visits to
    re-inspect equipment, facilities, and processes following the
    initial approval. If, as a result of these inspections, it is
    determined that our equipment, facilities, or processes do not
    comply with applicable regulations and conditions of product
    approval, regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal, or
    administrative sanctions
    and/or
    remedies against us, including the suspension of our
    manufacturing operations. In addition, the FDA regulates all
    advertising and promotion activities for products under its
    jurisdiction both prior to and after approval. Companies must
    comply with all applicable FDA requirements. If they do not,
    they are subject to the full range of civil and criminal
    penalties available to the FDA.


 


    In the EU, Canada, and Australia, regulatory requirements and
    approval processes are similar in principle to those in the
    U.S. depending on the type of drug for which approval is
    sought. There are currently three potential tracks for marketing
    approval in EU countries: mutual recognition, decentralized and
    centralized procedures. These review mechanisms may ultimately
    lead to approval in all EU countries, but each method grants all
    participating countries some decision-making authority in
    product approval.


 


    In the U.S., the federal government regularly considers
    reforming health care coverage and costs. For example, recent
    reforms to Medicare have reduced the reimbursement rates for
    many of our products. Effective January 1, 2005, Medicare
    pays physicians and suppliers that furnish our products under a
    new payment methodology using average sales price, or ASP,
    information. Manufacturers, including us, are required to
    provide ASP information to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
    Services on a quarterly basis. The manufacturer submitted
    information is used to compute Medicare payment rates, which are
    set at ASP plus 6 percent, updated quarterly. There is a
    mechanism for comparison of such payment rates to widely
    available market prices, which could cause further decreases in
    Medicare payment rates, although this mechanism has yet to be
    utilized. Effective January 1, 2006, Medicare began to use
    the same ASP plus 6 percent payment methodology to
    determine Medicare rates paid for products furnished by hospital
    outpatient departments. If a manufacturer is found to have made
    a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, the statute
    provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each
    misrepresentation and for each day in which the
    misrepresentation was applied.


 


    Another payment reform is the addition of an expanded
    prescription drug benefit for all Medicare beneficiaries known
    as Medicare Part D. This is a voluntary benefit that is
    being implemented through private plans under contractual
    arrangements with the federal government. Like pharmaceutical
    coverage through private health insurance, Part D plans
    establish formularies that govern the drugs and biologicals that
    will be offered and the
    out-of-pocket
    obligations for such products. In addition, plans are expected
    to negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers and pass on some
    of those savings to Medicare beneficiaries.


 


    Future legislation or regulatory actions implementing recent or
    future legislation may have a significant effect on our
    business. Our ability to successfully commercialize products may
    depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the
    costs of our products and related treatments will be available
    in the U.S. and worldwide from government health administration
    authorities, private health insurers and other organizations.
    Substantial uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of
    newly approved health care products by third party payors.


 


    We also participate in the Medicaid rebate program established
    by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, and under
    amendments of that law that became effective in 1993. Under the
    Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for each unit of
    product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for
    each product is set by law as a minimum 15.1% of the average
    manufacturer price, or AMP, of that product, or if it is
    greater, the difference between AMP and the best price available
    from us to any commercial or non-governmental customer. The
    rebate amount also includes an inflation adjustment if AMP
    increases faster than inflation. Pending federal legislation
    would revise the calculation of AMP in a way that may lead to an
    increase in rebate amounts effective in 2007. The rebate amount
    is required to be recomputed each quarter based on our reports
    of current average manufacturer price and best price for each of
    our products to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
    The terms of our



    
    21



Table of Contents




    participation in the program impose an obligation to correct the
    prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary, for
    up to three years. Any such corrections could result in an
    overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters,
    depending on the direction of the correction. In addition to
    retroactive rebates, if we were found to have knowingly
    submitted false information to the government, in addition to
    other penalties available to the government, the statute
    provides for civil monetary penalties in the amount of
    $100,000 per item of false information. Participation in
    the Medicaid rebate program includes extending discounts under
    the Public Health Service, or PHS, pharmaceutical pricing
    program. The PHS pricing program extends discounts to a variety
    of community health clinics and other entities that receive
    health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that
    serve a disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries.


 


    We also make our products available for purchase by authorized
    users off of our Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, contract with
    the Department of Veterans Affairs. As a result of the Veterans
    Health Care Act of 1992, or the VHC Act, federal law requires
    that FSS contract prices for our products for purchases by the
    Veterans Administration, the Department of Defense, Coast Guard,
    and the PHS (including the Indian Health Service) be capped at
    “federal ceiling prices,” or FCPs. FCPs are computed
    by taking, at a minimum, a 24% reduction off the
    “non-federal average manufacturer price,” or non-FAMP.
    Our reported non-FAMPs and FCPs for our various products are
    used in establishing the FSS prices available to these
    government agencies. The accuracy of the reported non-FAMPs and
    FCPs may be audited by the government under applicable federal
    procurement laws. Among the remedies available to the government
    for infractions of these laws is recoupment of any overages paid
    by FSS users during the audited years. In addition, if we were
    found to have knowingly reported a false non-FAMP or FCP, the
    VHC Act provides for civil monetary penalties of
    $100,000 per item of false information.


 


    We are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining
    to health care “fraud and abuse,” including
    anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws
    make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit,
    offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to
    induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or
    prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the
    statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of
    regulations and very few court decisions addressing industry
    practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged
    under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit
    anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be
    presented for payment to third party payors (including Medicare
    and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are
    false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided
    as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or
    services. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of
    our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws.
    Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal
    and/or civil
    sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well
    as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care
    programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government
    were to allege or convict us of violating these laws, our
    business could be harmed. In addition, there is an ability for
    private individuals to bring similar actions. For a description
    of litigation in this area in which we are currently involved,
    see “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.”


 


    Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons
    discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the
    increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement
    authorities. Further, there are an increasing number of state
    laws that require manufacturers to make reports to states on
    pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain
    ambiguities as to what is required to comply with the laws.
    Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our
    reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of
    the pertinent state authorities.


 


    We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act which prohibits corporations and individuals from paying,
    offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value
    to any foreign government official, government staff member,
    political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain
    or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in
    an official capacity.


 


    We conduct relevant research at all of our research facilities
    in the U.S. in compliance with the current
    U.S. National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Research
    Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules, or the NIH Guidelines, and
    all other applicable federal and state regulations. By local
    ordinance, we are required to, among other things, comply with
    the NIH Guidelines in relation to our facilities in Cambridge,
    Massachusetts, and San Diego, California, and are required
    to operate pursuant to certain permits.



    
    22



Table of Contents



 


    Our present and future business has been and will continue to be
    subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws,
    regulations and recommendations relating to safe working
    conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of
    animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import and export
    and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous
    substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious
    disease agents, used in connection with our research work are or
    may be applicable to our activities. Certain agreements entered
    into by us involving exclusive license rights may be subject to
    national or supranational antitrust regulatory control, the
    effect of which also cannot be predicted. The extent of
    government regulation, which might result from future
    legislation or administrative action, cannot accurately be
    predicted.


 



    Manufacturing
    and Raw Materials


 


    We currently produce all of our bulk AVONEX and TYSABRI, as well
    as AMEVIVE on a contract basis for Astellas, at our
    manufacturing facilities located in Research Triangle Park,
    North Carolina and Cambridge, Massachusetts. We manufacture the
    commercial requirements of the antibody for ZEVALIN at our
    manufacturing facilities in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Genentech
    is responsible for all worldwide manufacturing activities for
    bulk RITUXAN and has sourced the manufacturing of certain bulk
    RITUXAN requirements to an independent third party. We
    manufacture clinical products in Research Triangle Park, North
    Carolina and Cambridge, Massachusetts.


 


    In August 2004, we restarted construction of our large-scale
    biologic manufacturing facility in Hillerod, Denmark to be used
    to manufacture TYSABRI and other products in our pipeline. After
    our voluntary suspension of TYSABRI, we reconsidered our
    construction plans and determined that we would proceed with the
    bulk manufacturing component of the large-scale biologic
    manufacturing facility and add a labeling and packaging
    component to the project. We decided not to proceed with the
    fill-finish component of the large-scale biological
    manufacturing facility. See “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors — We are committing to a significant
    investment in the expansion of a manufacturing facility the
    success of which relies upon continued demand for our
    products.”


 


    We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final
    product storage operations for our products, along with a
    substantial part of our packaging operations, to a concentrated
    group of third party contractors. Many of the raw materials and
    supplies required for the production of AVONEX, ZEVALIN, AMEVIVE
    and TYSABRI are available from various suppliers in quantities
    adequate to meet our needs. However, due to the unique nature of
    the production of our products, we do have several single source
    providers of raw materials. We make efforts to qualify new
    vendors and to develop contingency plans so that production is
    not impacted by short-term issues associated with single source
    providers. Each of our third party service providers, suppliers
    and manufacturers are subject to continuing inspection by the
    FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions. Any delay,
    interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture,
    fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our products, including as
    a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or
    operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency
    inspection, could significantly impair our ability to sell our
    products. See the sections of “Item 1A —
    Risk Factors” entitled “Manufacturing problems could
    result in our inability to deliver products, inventory
    shortages, product recalls and increased costs”, “We
    rely on third parties to provide services in connection with the
    manufacture of our products and, in some instances, the
    manufacture of the product itself,” and “If we fail to
    meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in
    the manufacture of our products, we could incur substantial
    remedial costs and a reduction in sales.”


 


    We believe that our existing manufacturing facilities and
    outside sources will allow us to meet our near-term and
    long-term manufacturing needs for our current commercial
    products and our other products currently in clinical trials.
    Our existing licensed manufacturing facilities operate under
    multiple licenses from the FDA, regulatory authorities in the EU
    and other regulatory authorities. For a discussion of risks
    related to our ability to meet our manufacturing needs for our
    commercial products and our other products currently in clinical
    trials, see the sections of “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors” entitled “Manufacturing problems could result
    in our inability to deliver products, inventory shortages,
    product recalls and increased costs”, “We rely on
    third parties to provide services in connection with the
    manufacture of our products and, in some instances, the
    manufacture of the product itself,” and “If we fail to
    meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in
    the manufacture of our products, we could incur substantial
    remedial costs and a reduction in sales.”



    
    23



Table of Contents



 


    Additional manufacturing facilities and outside sources may be
    required to meet our long-term research, development and
    commercial production needs.


 



    Our
    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 3,750
    employees.


 



    Our
    Executive Officers


 


    The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages as
    of February 15, 2007 and their principal positions.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    James C. Mullen
    



 




    48
    




 


    Chief Executive Officer and
    President
    





    Cecil B. Pickett, Ph.D. 
    



 




    61
    




 


    President, Research and Development
    





    Burt A. Adelman, M.D. 
    



 




    54
    




 


    Executive Vice President,
    Portfolio Strategy
    





    Susan H. Alexander, Esq. 
    



 




    50
    




 


    Executive Vice President, General
    Counsel and Corporate Secretary
    





    John M. Dunn, Esq. 
    



 




    54
    




 


    Executive Vice President, New
    Ventures
    





    Robert A. Hamm
    



 




    55
    




 


    Senior Vice President, Neurology
    Strategic
    Business Unit
    





    Hans Peter Hasler
    



 




    51
    




 


    Senior Vice President,
    International Strategic Business Unit
    





    Faheem Hasnain
    



 




    48
    




 


    Senior Vice President, Oncology
    Rheumatology Strategic Business Unit
    





    Peter N. Kellogg
    



 




    50
    




 


    Executive Vice President, Finance
    and Chief Financial Officer
    





    Michael D.
    Kowolenko, Ph.D. 
    



 




    51
    




 


     Senior Vice President,
    Pharmaceutical Operations and Technology
    





    Michael F. MacLean
    



 




    41
    




 


    Senior Vice President, Chief
    Accounting Officer and Controller
    





    Craig Eric
    Schneier, Ph.D. 
    



 




    59
    




 


    Executive Vice President, Human
    Resources
    





    Mark C. Wiggins
    



 




    51
    




 


    Executive Vice President,
    Corporate and Business Development
    








 


    Reference to “our” or “us” in the following
    descriptions of the background of our executive officers include
    Biogen Idec and Idec Pharmaceuticals Corporation.


 


    James C. Mullen is our Chief Executive Officer and
    President and has served in these positions since the merger in
    November 2003. Mr. Mullen was formerly Chairman of the
    Board and Chief Executive Officer of Biogen, Inc. He was named
    Chairman of the Board of Directors of Biogen, Inc. in July 2002,
    after being named President and Chief Executive Officer of
    Biogen, Inc. in June 2000. Mr. Mullen joined Biogen, Inc.
    in 1989 as Director, Facilities and Engineering. He was named
    Biogen, Inc.’s Vice President, Operations, in 1992. From
    1996 to 1999, Mr. Mullen served as Vice President,
    International, with responsibility for building all Biogen, Inc.
    operations outside North America. From 1984 to 1988,
    Mr. Mullen held various positions at SmithKline Beckman
    Corporation (now GlaxoSmithKline plc). Mr. Mullen is also a
    director of PerkinElmer, Inc. and serves as Chairman of the
    Board of Directors of the Biotechnology Industry Organization
    (BIO).


 


    Cecil B. Pickett Ph. D. is our President, Research and
    Development and has served in that position since September 2006
    and has served as one of our directors since September 2006.
    Prior to joining Biogen Idec, he was President, Schering-Plough
    Research Institute from March 2002 to September 2006, and before
    that he was Executive VP of Discovery Research at
    Schering-Plough Corporation from September 1993 to March 2002.


 


    Burt A. Adelman M.D. is our Executive Vice President,
    Portfolio Strategy and has served in that position since
    September 2006. Previously, Dr. Adelman held the position
    of Executive Vice President, Development and served in that role
    since the merger in November 2003. Dr. Adelman was
    previously Executive Vice President, Research



    
    24



Table of Contents




    and Development at Biogen, Inc., a position he attained in
    October 2001. Prior to that, he served as Vice President of
    Medical Research from January 1999 to October 2001 and Vice
    President of Development Operations from August 1996 to January
    1999. He began his career with Biogen, Inc. in 1991, joining the
    company as Director of Medical Research, and has held positions
    of increasing responsibility including Vice President,
    Regulatory Affairs, and Vice President, Development Operations.
    In that role he oversaw the Preclinical Development, Medical
    Operations and Regulatory Affairs groups. Since 1992,
    Dr. Adelman has served as a lecturer at Harvard Medical
    School. He is a member of the Board of Directors for the New
    England Healthcare Institute and the New England Division of the
    American Cancer Society.


 


    Susan H. Alexander is our Executive Vice President,
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and has served in these
    positions since January 2006. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander
    served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Corporate Secretary of PAREXEL International Corporation, since
    September 2003. From June 2001 to September 2003,
    Ms. Alexander served as General Counsel of IONA
    Technologies. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander served as
    Counsel at Cabot Corporation from January 1995 to May 2001.
    Prior to that, Ms. Alexander was a partner of the law firms
    of Hinckley, Allen & Snyder and Fine &
    Ambrogne.


 


    John M. Dunn is our Executive Vice President, New
    Ventures and has served in that position since the merger in
    November 2003. Mr. Dunn was our Senior Vice President,
    Legal and Compliance, and General Counsel from January 2002 to
    November 2003. Prior to that, he was a partner at the law firm
    of Pillsbury Winthrop LLP specializing in corporate and business
    representation of public and private companies.


 


    Robert A. Hamm is our Senior Vice President, Neurology
    Strategic Business Unit and has served in that position since
    January 2006. Previously, Mr. Hamm served as Senior Vice
    President, Immunology Business Unit since the merger in November
    2003 and in the same capacity with Biogen, Inc. from November
    2002 to November 2003. Before that, he served as Senior Vice
    President — Europe, Africa, Canada and Middle East
    from October 2001 to November 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Hamm
    served as Vice President — Sales and Marketing of
    Biogen, Inc. from October 2000 to October 2001. Mr. Hamm
    previously served as Vice
    President — Manufacturing from June 1999 to
    October 2000, Director, Northern Europe and Distributors from
    November 1996 until June 1999 and Associate Director, Logistics
    from April 1994 until November 1996. From 1987 until April 1994,
    Mr. Hamm held a variety of management positions at Syntex
    Laboratories Corporation, including Director of Operations and
    New Product Planning, and Manager of Materials, Logistics and
    Contract Manufacturing.


 


    Hans Peter Hasler has served as our Senior Vice
    President, International Strategic Business Unit since February
    2006 and has managed our international business since the
    merger. He served as Executive Vice President- International of
    Biogen, Inc. from July 2003 until the merger, and joined Biogen,
    Inc as Executive Vice President — Commercial
    Operations in August 2001. Mr. Hasler joined Biogen, Inc.
    from Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Inc., an affiliate of
    American Home Products, Inc. (AHP), where he served as Senior
    Vice President, Head of Global Strategic Marketing since 1998.
    Mr. Hasler was a member of the Wyeth/AHP Executive
    Committee and was chairman of the Commercial Council. From 1993
    to 1998, Mr. Hasler served in a variety of senior
    management capacities for Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals,
    including Managing Director of Wyeth Group, Germany, and General
    Manager of AHP/Wyeth in Switzerland and Central Eastern Europe.
    Prior to joining Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Mr. Hasler
    served as the Head of Pharma Division at Abbott AG.
    Mr. Hasler is a member of the Board of Directors of Orexo
    AB and Santhera.


 


    Faheem Hasnain has served as our Senior Vice President,
    Oncology Rheumatology Strategic Business Unit since February
    2007 and, prior to that, served as Senior Vice President,
    Oncology Strategic Business Unit since October 2004. Prior to
    that, Mr. Hasnain served as President, Oncology
    Therapeutics Network at Bristol-Myers Squibb from March 2002 to
    September 2004. From January 2001 to February 2002,
    Mr. Hasnain served as Vice President, Global eBusiness at
    GlaxoSmithKline and prior to 2000 served in key commercial and
    entrepreneurial roles within GlaxoSmithKline and its predecessor
    organizations, spanning global eBusiness, international
    commercial operations, sales and marketing.


 


    Peter N. Kellogg is our Executive Vice President, Finance
    and Chief Financial Officer and has served in that position
    since the merger in November 2003. Mr. Kellogg was formerly
    Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of
    Biogen, Inc. after serving as Vice President — Finance
    and Chief Financial Officer since July 2000. He joined Biogen,
    Inc. in 2000 from PepsiCo Inc., where he most recently served as
    Senior Vice



    
    25



Table of Contents




    President, PepsiCo
    E-Commerce
    from March to July 2000 and as Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer, Frito-Lay International, from March 1998 to
    March 2000. From 1987 to 1998, he served in a variety of senior
    financial, international and general management positions at
    PepsiCo and the Pepsi-Cola International, Pepsi-Cola North
    America, and Frito-Lay International divisions. Prior to joining
    PepsiCo, Mr. Kellogg was a senior consultant with Arthur
    Andersen & Co. and Booz Allen & Hamilton.


 


    Michael D. Kowolenko, Ph.D. is our Senior Vice
    President, Pharmaceutical Operations and Technology, and has
    served in that position since July 2004. Prior to that, he
    served as our Senior Vice President, Global Quality, from
    November 2003 to July 2004 and held a similar position with
    Biogen, Inc. from April 2002 until November 2003. Prior to
    joining Biogen, Inc., Dr. Kowolenko held several positions
    within Research, Development, and Operations at Bayer
    Corporation, including Vice President of Quality Assurance from
    January 2001 to April 2002.


 


    Michael F. MacLean is our Senior Vice President, Chief
    Accounting Officer and Controller and has served in that
    position since December 6, 2006. Mr. MacLean joined
    the Company on October 2, 2006 as Senior Vice President.
    Prior to joining the Company, Mr. MacLean was a managing
    director of Huron Consulting, where he provided support
    regarding financial reporting to management and boards of
    directors of Fortune 500 companies. From June 2002 to
    October 2005, Mr. MacLean was a partner at KPMG and he was
    a partner of Arthur Andersen LLP from September 1999 to May 2002.


 


    Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D. is our Executive Vice
    President, Human Resources and has served in that position since
    the merger in November 2003. Dr. Schneier was previously
    Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Biogen, Inc., a
    position he held since January 2003. He joined Biogen, Inc. in
    2001 as Senior Vice President, Strategic Organization Design and
    Effectiveness, after having served as an external consultant to
    the company for eight years. Prior to joining Biogen, Inc.,
    Dr. Schneier was president of his own management consulting
    firm in Princeton, NJ, where he provided consulting services to
    over 70 of the Fortune 100 companies, as well as several of
    the largest European and Asian firms. Dr. Schneier held a
    tenured professorship at the University of Maryland’s Smith
    School of Business and has held teaching positions at the
    business schools of the University of Michigan, Columbia
    University, and at the Tuck School of Business, Dartmouth
    College.


 


    Mark C. Wiggins is our Executive Vice President,
    Corporate and Business Development and has served in that
    capacity since July 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Wiggins served
    as our Senior Vice President, Business Development from November
    2003 to July 2004, Vice President of Marketing and Business
    Development from November 2000 to November 2003, and Vice
    President of Business Development from May 1998 to November
    2000. From 1996 to 1998, he was Vice President of Business
    Development and Marketing for Hybridon. From 1986 to 1996 he
    held various positions of increasing responsibility at
    Schering-Plough Corporation, including Director of Business
    Development.



    
    26



Table of Contents



 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    We are
    substantially dependent on revenues from our two principal
    products


 


    Our current and future revenues depend substantially upon
    continued sales of our two principal products, AVONEX and
    RITUXAN, which represented approximately 94% of our total
    revenues in 2006. Any significant negative developments relating
    to these two products, such as safety or efficacy issues, the
    introduction or greater acceptance of competing products
    (including greater than anticipated substitution of TYSABRI for
    AVONEX) or adverse regulatory or legislative developments, would
    have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
    Although we have developed and continue to develop additional
    products for commercial introduction, we expect to be
    substantially dependent on sales from these two products for
    many years. A decline in sales from either of these two products
    would adversely affect our business.


 



    Our
    long-term success depends upon the successful development and
    commercialization of other products from our research and
    development activities


 


    Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the
    successful development and commercialization of other products
    from our research and development activities. We, along with
    Genentech, continue to expand our development efforts related to
    additional uses for RITUXAN and follow on anti-CD20 product
    candidates, and we are independently expanding development
    efforts around other potential products in our pipeline. Product
    development and commercialization are very expensive and involve
    a high degree of risk. Only a small number of research and
    development programs result in the commercialization of a
    product. Success in early stage clinical trials or preclinical
    work does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical
    trials will be successful. Even if later stage clinical trials
    are successful, the risk remains that unexpected concerns may
    arise from additional data or analysis or that obstacles may
    arise or issues may be identified in connection with review of
    clinical data with regulatory authorities or that regulatory
    authorities may disagree with our view of the data or require
    additional data or information or additional studies.


 


    If we are unable to introduce new products to the market
    successfully or are unable to expand the indicated uses of
    approved products such as RITUXAN and TYSABRI, our results of
    operations would be adversely affected.


 



    Adverse
    safety events can negatively affect our assets, product sales,
    operations and products in development


 


    Even after we receive marketing approval for a product, adverse
    event reports may have a negative impact on our
    commercialization efforts. Our voluntary withdrawal of TYSABRI
    from the market in February 2005 following reports of cases of
    PML resulted in a significant reduction in expected revenues as
    well as significant expense and management time required to
    address the legal and regulatory issues arising from the
    withdrawal, including revised labeling and enhanced risk
    management programs. Later discovery of safety issues with our
    products that were not known at the time of their approval by
    the FDA could cause product liability events, additional
    regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional labeling,
    withdrawal of products from the market and the imposition of
    fines or criminal penalties. Any of these actions could result
    in, among other things, material write-offs of inventory and
    impairments of intangible assets, goodwill and fixed assets.


 



    Our
    near-term success depends on the market acceptance and
    successful launch of our third product TYSABRI


 


    A substantial portion of our growth in the near-term is
    dependent on anticipated sales of TYSABRI. We received
    regulatory approval to market TYSABRI in the U.S. and the EU for
    relapsing forms of MS in June of 2006. We re-introduced TYSABRI
    in the U.S. and launched TYSABRI for the first time in Europe in
    the second half of 2006. TYSABRI is expected to meaningfully
    diversify our product offerings and revenues, and to drive
    additional revenue growth over the next several years. Failure
    to launch the drug successfully would result in a significant
    reduction in diversification and expected revenues, and
    adversely affect our business.


 


    The success of the reintroduction of TYSABRI into the
    U.S. market and launch in the EU will depend upon its
    acceptance by the medical community and patients, which cannot
    be certain given the significant restrictions on use



    
    27



Table of Contents




    and the significant safety warnings in the label. Additional
    cases of the known side effect PML at a higher rate than
    indicated in the prescribing information, or the occurrence of
    other unexpected side effects could harm acceptance and limit
    TYSABRI sales. Any significant lack of acceptance of TYSABRI by
    the medical community or patients would materially and adversely
    affect our growth and our plans for the future.


 


    As a new entrant to a relatively mature MS market, TYSABRI sales
    may be more sensitive to additional new competing products. A
    number of such products are expected to be approved for use in
    MS in the coming years. If these products have a similar or more
    attractive overall profile in terms of efficacy, convenience and
    safety, future sales of TYSABRI could be limited.


 



    If we
    do not successfully execute our strategy of growth through the
    acquisition, partnering and in-licensing of products,
    technologies or companies, our future performance could be
    adversely affected


 


    In addition to the expansion of our pipeline through spending on
    internal development projects, we plan to grow through external
    growth opportunities, which include the acquisition, partnering
    and in-licensing of products, technologies and companies or the
    entry into strategic alliances and collaborations. If we are
    unable to complete or manage these external growth opportunities
    successfully, we will not be able to grow our business in the
    way that we currently expect. The availability of high quality
    opportunities is limited and we are not certain that we will be
    able to identify suitable candidates or complete transactions on
    terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, even if we are
    able to successfully identify and complete acquisitions, we may
    not be able to integrate them or take full advantage of them and
    therefore may not realize the benefits that we expect. If we are
    unsuccessful in our external growth program, we may not be able
    to grow our business significantly and we may incur asset
    impairment charges as a result of acquisitions that are not
    successful.


 



    If we
    fail to compete effectively, our business and market position
    would suffer


 


    The biotechnology industry is intensely competitive. We compete
    in the marketing and sale of our products, the development of
    new products and processes, the acquisition of rights to new
    products with commercial potential and the hiring and retention
    of personnel. We compete with biotechnology and pharmaceutical
    companies that have a greater number of products on the market,
    greater financial and other resources and other technological or
    competitive advantages. We cannot be certain that one or more of
    our competitors will not receive patent protection that
    dominates, blocks or adversely affects our product development
    or business, will not benefit from significantly greater sales
    and marketing capabilities, or will not develop products that
    are accepted more widely than ours. The introduction of
    alternatives to our products that offer advantages in efficacy,
    safety or ease of use could negatively affect our revenues and
    reduce the value of our product development efforts. In
    addition, potential governmental action in the future could
    provide a means for competition from developers of follow-on
    biologics, which could compete on price and differentiation with
    products that we now or could in the future market.


 


    In addition to competing directly with products that are
    marketed by substantial pharmaceutical competitors, both AVONEX
    and RITUXAN also face competition from off-label uses of drugs
    approved for other indications. Some of our current competitors
    are also working to develop alternative formulations for
    delivery of their products, which may in the future compete with
    ours.


 



    We
    depend on collaborators for both product and royalty revenue and
    the clinical development of future collaboration products, two
    important parts of our business outside of our full
    control


 


    Collaborations between companies on products or programs are a
    common business practice in the biotechnology industry.
    Out-licensing typically allows a partner to collect up front
    payments and future milestone payments, share the costs of
    clinical development and risk of failure at various points, and
    access sales and marketing infrastructure and expertise in
    exchange for certain financial rights to the product or program
    going to the in-licensing partner. In addition, the obligation
    of in-licensees to pay royalties or share profits generally
    terminates upon expiration of the related patents. We have a
    number of collaborators and partners, and have both in-licensed
    and out-licensed several products and programs. These
    collaborations include several risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we are not fully in control of the royalty or profit sharing
    revenues we receive from collaborators, and we cannot be certain
    of the timing or potential impact of factors including patent
    expirations, pricing or health






    
    28



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    care reforms, other legal and regulatory developments, failure
    of our partners to comply with applicable laws and regulatory
    requirements, the introduction of competitive products, and new
    indication approvals which may affect the sales of collaboration
    products;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    where we co-promote and co-market products with our
    collaboration partners, any failure on their part to comply with
    applicable laws in the sale and marketing of our products could
    have an adverse effect on our revenues as well as involve us in
    possible legal proceedings;



 


     
        • 

    
    collaborations often require the parties to cooperate, and
    failure to do so effectively could have an impact on product
    sales by our collaborators and partners, as well as an impact on
    the clinical development of shared products or programs under
    joint control.





 


    In addition, the successful development and commercialization of
    new anti-CD20 product candidates in our collaboration with
    Genentech (which also includes RITUXAN) will decrease our
    participation in the operating profits from the collaboration
    (including as to RITUXAN).


 



    We
    depend, to a significant extent, on reimbursement from third
    party payors and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement
    could negatively affect our product sales and
    revenue


 


    Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on the
    availability and extent of reimbursement from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. U.S. and foreign government regulations mandating
    price controls and limitations on patient access to our products
    impact our business and our future results could be adversely
    affected by changes in such regulations. In addition, states may
    more aggressively seek Medicaid rebates as a result of
    legislation enacted in 2006, which rebate activity could
    adversely affect our results of operations.


 


    In the U.S., many of our products are subject to increasing
    pricing pressures. Such pressures may increase as a result of
    the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act
    of 2003. Managed care organizations as well as Medicaid and
    other government health administration authorities continue to
    seek price discounts. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid
    expenses may continue to increase the use of managed care
    organizations. This may result in managed care organizations
    influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the
    population and a corresponding constraint on prices and
    reimbursement for our products. In addition, some states have
    implemented and other states are considering price controls or
    patient-access constraints under the Medicaid program and some
    states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to
    broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid
    eligible. Other matters also could be the subject of
    U.S. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that
    could adversely affect our business, including the importation
    of prescription drugs that are marketed outside the U.S. and
    sold at lower prices as a result of drug price regulations by
    the governments of various foreign countries.


 


    We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most
    other countries. In the EU and some other international markets,
    the government provides health care at low cost to consumers and
    regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility or
    reimbursement levels to control costs for the
    government-sponsored health care system. This international
    patchwork of price regulations may lead to inconsistent prices.
    Within the EU and other countries some third party trade in our
    products occurs from markets with lower prices —
    thereby undermining our sales in some markets with higher
    prices. Additionally, certain countries reference the prices in
    other countries where our products are marketed. Thus, inability
    to secure adequate prices in a particular country may also
    impair our ability to obtain acceptable prices in existing and
    potential new markets. This may create the opportunity for the
    third party cross border trade previously mentioned or our
    decision not to sell the product thus affecting our geographic
    expansion plans.


 


    When a new medical product is approved, the availability of
    government and private reimbursement for that product is
    uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be
    reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of
    reimbursement for our product candidates.



    
    29



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    business is subject to extensive governmental regulation and
    oversight and changes in laws could adversely affect our
    revenues and profitability


 


    Our business is in a highly regulated industry. As a result,
    governmental actions may adversely affect our business,
    operations or financial condition, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new
    interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions,
    related to health care availability, method of delivery and
    payment for health care products and services;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes
    that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and
    result in lost market opportunity;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require
    additional safety monitoring after the introduction of our
    products to market, which could increase our costs of doing
    business and adversely affect the future permitted uses of
    approved products,



 


     
        • 

    
    new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing
    or marketing; and



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in the tax laws relating to our operations.





 


    The enactment in the U.S. of the Medicare Prescription Drug
    Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, possible legislation
    which could ease the entry of competing follow-on biologics in
    the marketplace, and importation of lower-cost competing drugs
    from other jurisdictions are examples of changes and possible
    changes in laws that could adversely affect our business.


 



    If we
    fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory
    requirements affecting the healthcare industry, we could face
    increased costs, penalties and a loss of business


 


    Our activities, including the sale and marketing of our
    products, are subject to extensive government regulation and
    oversight, including regulation under the U.S. Food, Drug
    and Cosmetic Act and other federal and state statutes and
    similar laws in foreign jurisdictions. Pharmaceutical and
    biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and
    investigations alleging violations of government regulation,
    including claims asserting antitrust violations and violations
    of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or other violations
    related to environmental matters. Violations of governmental
    regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions,
    including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from
    participation in government programs. Whether or not we have
    complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful
    conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation,
    divert management time and attention and adversely affect our
    business.


 


    The Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar
    state laws, prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or
    others either to purchase or arrange for or recommend the
    purchase of healthcare products or services. These laws
    constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities
    of manufacturers of drugs and biologicals, such as us, by
    limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales
    programs, with hospitals, physicians, and other potential
    purchasers of drugs and biologicals. Other federal and state
    laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly
    presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from
    Medicare, Medicaid, or other third party payors that are false
    or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not
    provided as claimed. Anti-kickback and false claims laws
    prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance that
    can be substantial, including the possibility of exclusion from
    federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).


 



    Manufacturing
    problems could result in our inability to deliver products,
    inventory shortages, product recalls and increased
    costs


 


    We manufacture and expect to continue to manufacture our own
    commercial requirements of bulk AVONEX and TYSABRI. Our products
    are difficult to manufacture and problems in our manufacturing
    processes can occur. Our inability to manufacture successfully
    bulk product and to maintain regulatory approvals of our
    manufacturing facilities would harm our ability to produce
    timely sufficient quantities of commercial supplies of AVONEX
    and TYSABRI to meet demand. Problems with manufacturing
    processes could result in product defects or manufacturing
    failures, which could require us to delay shipment of products,
    recall, or withdraw products previously



    
    30



Table of Contents




    shipped, or impair our ability to expand into new markets or
    supply products in existing markets. In the past, we have had to
    write down and incur other charges and expenses for products
    that failed to meet specifications. Similar charges may occur in
    the future.


 


    We currently manufacture TYSABRI at our manufacturing facility
    in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, or RTP. Although we
    are proceeding with construction of the bulk manufacturing
    component of our large-scale biologic manufacturing facility in
    Hillerod, Denmark and have added a labeling and packaging
    component to the project, we currently rely exclusively on our
    RTP facility for the manufacture of TYSABRI.


 


    If we cannot produce sufficient commercial requirements of bulk
    product to meet demand, we would need to rely on third party
    contract manufacturers, of which there are only a limited number
    capable of manufacturing bulk products of the type we require.
    We cannot be certain that we could reach agreement on reasonable
    terms, if at all, with those manufacturers. Even if we were to
    reach agreement, the transition of the manufacturing process to
    a third party to enable commercial supplies could take a
    significant amount of time. Our ability to supply products in
    sufficient capacity to meet demand is also dependent upon third
    party contractors to fill-finish, package and store such
    products. Any prolonged interruption in the operations of our
    existing manufacturing facilities could result in cancellations
    of shipments or loss of product in the process of being
    manufactured. Because our manufacturing processes are highly
    complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA approval process,
    alternative qualified production capacity may not be available
    on a timely basis or at all.


 



    We
    rely on third parties to provide services in connection with the
    manufacture of our products and, in some instances, the
    manufacture of the product itself


 


    We rely on Genentech for all RITUXAN manufacturing. Genentech
    relies on a third party to manufacture certain bulk RITUXAN
    requirements. If Genentech or any third party upon which it
    relies does not manufacture or fill-finish RITUXAN in sufficient
    quantities and on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if
    Genentech or any third party does not obtain and maintain all
    required manufacturing approvals, our business could be harmed.


 


    We also source all of our fill-finish and the majority of our
    final product storage operations, along with a substantial
    portion of our packaging operations of the components used with
    our products, to a concentrated group of third party
    contractors. The manufacture of products and product components,
    fill-finish, packaging and storage of our products require
    successful coordination among ourselves and multiple third party
    providers. Our inability to coordinate these efforts, the lack
    of capacity available at a third party contractor or any other
    problems with the operations of these third party contractors
    could require us to delay shipment of saleable products, recall
    products previously shipped or impair our ability to supply
    products at all. This could increase our costs, cause us to lose
    revenue or market share, and damage our reputation. Any third
    party we use to fill-finish, package or store our products to be
    sold in the U.S. must be licensed by the FDA. As a result,
    alternative third party providers may not be readily available
    on a timely basis.


 


    Due to the unique nature of the production of our products,
    there are several single source providers of raw materials. We
    make every effort to qualify new vendors and to develop
    contingency plans so that production is not impacted by
    short-term issues associated with single source providers.
    Nonetheless, our business could be materially impacted by long
    term or chronic issues associated with single source providers.


 



    If we
    fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental
    regulation in the manufacture of our products, we could incur
    substantial remedial costs and a reduction in
    sales


 


    We and our third party providers are generally required to
    maintain compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or
    cGMP, and are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable
    agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Any
    changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of
    manufacturing require amending our application to the FDA and
    acceptance of the change by the FDA prior to release of product
    to the marketplace. Our inability, or the inability of our third
    party service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cGMP compliance
    could require us to withdraw or recall product and interrupt
    commercial supply of our products. Any delay, interruption or
    other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish,
    packaging, or storage of our products as a result of a failure
    of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third
    parties to pass any regulatory agency



    
    31



Table of Contents




    inspection could significantly impair our ability to develop and
    commercialize our products. This non-compliance could increase
    our costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage
    our reputation.


 



    We are
    committing to a significant investment in the expansion of a
    manufacturing facility the success of which relies upon
    continued demand for our products


 


    We are proceeding with the second phase of our large-scale
    biologic manufacturing facility in Hillerod, Denmark and our
    Board of Directors has authorized an additional
    $225 million to be spent on the project in addition to the
    $275 million we have spent to date. In the event that we
    fail to manage the projects, or other unforeseen events occur,
    we may incur additional costs to complete the project.
    Additionally, any costs incurred may not be recoverable in the
    event that projection of the demand for future manufacturing
    volumes, including the demand for TYSABRI, are not achieved.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel and key
    relationships, the growth of our business could be
    harmed


 


    Our success will depend, to a great extent, upon our ability to
    attract and retain qualified scientific, manufacturing, sales
    and marketing and executive personnel and our ability to develop
    and maintain relationships with qualified clinical researchers
    and key distributors. Competition for these people and
    relationships is intense and we compete with numerous
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as with
    universities and non-profit research organizations. Any
    inability we experience to continue to attract and retain
    qualified personnel or develop and maintain key relationships
    could have an adverse effect on our ability to accomplish our
    research, development and external growth objectives.


 



    Our
    operating results are subject to significant
    fluctuations


 


    Our quarterly revenues, expenses and net income (loss) have
    fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly
    in the future due to the timing of charges and expenses that we
    may take. In recent periods, for instance, we have recorded
    charges that include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    acquired in-process research and development at the time we make
    an acquisition;



 


     
        • 

    
    impairments that we are required to take with respect to
    investments;



 


     
        • 

    
    impairments that we are required to take with respect to fixed
    assets, including those that are recorded in connection with the
    sale of fixed assets;



 


     
        • 

    
    the cost of restructurings.





 


    Additionally, net income may fluctuate due to the impact of
    charges we may be required to take with respect to foreign
    currency hedge transactions. In particular, we may incur higher
    charges from hedge ineffectiveness than we expect or from the
    termination of a hedge relationship.


 


    These examples are only illustrative and other risks, including
    those discussed in these “Risk Factors,” could also
    cause fluctuations in our reported earnings. In addition, our
    operating results during any one quarter do not necessarily
    suggest the anticipated results of future quarters.


 



    If we
    are unable to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual
    property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our
    development efforts or our acquired technology


 


    We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and
    various other countries seeking protection of inventions
    originating from our research and development, including a
    number of our processes and products. Patents have been issued
    on many of these applications. We have also obtained rights to
    various patents and patent applications under licenses with
    third parties, which provide for the payment of royalties by us.
    The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded
    to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the
    U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and is
    dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the
    patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. Our
    patents may not afford us substantial protection or commercial
    benefit. Similarly, our pending patent applications or patent
    applications licensed from third parties may not



    
    32



Table of Contents




    ultimately be granted as patents and we may not prevail if
    patents that have been issued to us are challenged in court. If
    we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights and
    prevent others from exploiting our inventions, we will not
    derive the benefit from them that we currently expect.


 



    If our
    products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we
    may incur damages and be required to incur the expense of
    obtaining a license


 


    A substantial number of patents have already been issued to
    other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. Competitors
    may have filed applications for, or have been issued patents and
    may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that may
    relate to products or processes competitive with or similar to
    our products and processes. Moreover, the patent laws of the
    U.S. and foreign countries are distinct and decisions as to
    patenting, validity of patents and infringement of patents may
    be resolved differently in different countries. In general, we
    obtain licenses to third party patents that we deem necessary or
    desirable for the manufacture, use and sale of our products. We
    are currently unable to assess the extent to which we may wish
    or be required to acquire rights under such patents and the
    availability and cost of acquiring such rights, or whether a
    license to such patents will be available on acceptable terms or
    at all. There may be patents in the U.S. or in foreign
    countries or patents issued in the future that are unavailable
    to license on acceptable terms. Our inability to obtain such
    licenses may hinder our ability to market our products.


 



    Uncertainty
    over intellectual property in the biotechnology industry has
    been the source of litigation, which is inherently costly and
    unpredictable


 


    We are aware that others, including various universities and
    companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent
    applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and in
    other countries claiming subject matter potentially useful to
    our business. Some of those patents and patent applications
    claim only specific products or methods of making such products,
    while others claim more general processes or techniques useful
    or now used in the biotechnology industry. There is considerable
    uncertainty within the biotechnology industry about the
    validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the
    U.S. and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, there is no
    consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in
    biotechnology patents. We cannot currently determine the
    ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to
    third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted
    to be infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products.


 


    There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be
    significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and
    other intellectual property rights. Litigation and
    administrative proceedings concerning patents and other
    intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and
    distracting to management. Competitors may sue us as a way of
    delaying the introduction of our products. Any litigation,
    including any interference proceedings to determine priority of
    inventions, oppositions to patents in foreign countries or
    litigation against our partners, may be costly and time
    consuming and could harm our business. We expect that litigation
    may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and
    scope of certain of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be
    necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope
    and/or
    noninfringement of certain patent rights claimed by third
    parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our
    products. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could
    adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other
    proprietary rights, or, conversely, hinder our ability to market
    our products.


 



    Pending
    and future product liability claims may adversely affect our
    business and our reputation


 


    The administration of drugs in humans, whether in clinical
    studies or commercially, carries the inherent risk of product
    liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause
    of an injury. Our products or product candidates may cause, or
    may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug interactions
    and we may not learn about or understand those effects until the
    product or product candidate has been administered to patients
    for a prolonged period of time. For example, we may face
    lawsuits with product liability and other related claims by
    patients treated with TYSABRI or related to TYSABRI, including
    lawsuits already filed by patients who have had serious adverse
    events while using TYSABRI.



    
    33



Table of Contents



 


    We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any
    pending or future litigation. We may not be successful in
    defending ourselves in the litigation and, as a result, our
    business could be materially harmed. These lawsuits may result
    in large judgments or settlements against us, any of which could
    have a negative effect on our financial condition and business.
    Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive to defend, whether or
    not they have merit, and the defense of these actions may divert
    the attention of our management and other resources that would
    otherwise be engaged in running our business.


 



    Our
    business involves environmental risks, which include the cost of
    compliance and the risk of contamination or injury


 


    Our business and the business of several of our strategic
    partners, including Genentech and Elan, involve the controlled
    use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive
    compounds. Biologics manufacturing is extremely susceptible to
    product loss due to microbial or viral contamination, material
    equipment failure, or vendor or operator error. Although we
    believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of
    such materials comply with state and federal standards, there
    will always be the risk of accidental contamination or injury.
    In addition, microbial or viral contamination may cause the
    closure of a manufacturing facility for an extended period of
    time. By law, radioactive materials may only be disposed of at
    state-approved facilities. We currently store radioactive
    materials from our California operation
    on-site
    because the approval of a disposal site in California for all
    California-based companies has been delayed indefinitely. If and
    when a disposal site is approved, we may incur substantial costs
    related to the disposal of these materials. If we were to become
    liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended
    facility shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages and
    penalties that could harm our business.


 



    Our
    international sales and operations are subject to the risks of
    doing business abroad


 


    We are increasing our presence in international markets, which
    subjects us to many risks, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    economic problems that disrupt foreign healthcare payment
    systems;



 


     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    the imposition of governmental controls;



 


     
        • 

    
    less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws;



 


     
        • 

    
    the inability to obtain any necessary foreign regulatory or
    pricing approvals of products in a timely manner;



 


     
        • 

    
    restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade
    restrictions;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in tax laws and tariffs;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing international
    operations; and



 


     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles.





 


    Our operations and marketing practices are also subject to
    regulation and scrutiny by the governments of the other
    countries in which we operate. In addition, the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits U.S. companies and their
    representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making
    payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or
    retaining business abroad. In many countries, the healthcare
    professionals we regularly interact with meet the definition of
    a foreign official for purposes of the FCPA. Additionally, we
    are subject to other U.S. laws in our international
    operations. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws
    could result in various adverse consequences, including possible
    delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls,
    seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market,
    and/or the
    imposition of civil or criminal sanctions.



    
    34



Table of Contents




    A portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than
    our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. We recognize
    foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in
    the period in which we incur those gains or losses. As a result,
    currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the
    currencies in which we do business have caused foreign currency
    transaction gains and losses in the past and will likely do so
    in the future. Because of the number of currencies involved, the
    variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility
    of currency exchange rates, we may suffer significant foreign
    currency transaction losses in the future due to the effect of
    exchange rate fluctuations.


 



    Our
    investments in marketable securities are significant and are
    subject to interest and credit risk that may reduce their
    value


 


    We maintain a significant portfolio of investments in marketable
    securities. Our earnings may be adversely affected by changes in
    the value of this portfolio. In particular, the value of our
    investments may be adversely affected by increases in interest
    rates, downgrades in the corporate bonds included in the
    portfolio and by other than temporary declines in value. Each of
    these events may cause us to record charges to reduce the
    carrying value of our investment portfolio.


 



    We may
    incur liabilities to tax authorities in excess of amounts that
    have been accrued


 


    The preparation of our financial statements requires estimates
    of the amount of tax that will become payable in each of the
    jurisdictions in which we operate. Accordingly, we determine our
    estimated liability for Federal, state and local taxes (in the
    U.S.) and in connection with our tax liability in several
    overseas jurisdictions. We may be challenged by any of these
    taxing authorities and, in the event that we are not able to
    defend our position, we may incur liabilities with respect to
    the taxing authority and such amounts could be significant.


 



    Several
    aspects of our corporate governance and our collaboration
    agreements may discourage a third party from attempting to
    acquire us


 


    Several factors might discourage a takeover attempt that could
    be viewed as beneficial to stockholders who wish to receive a
    premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a
    business combination with an interested stockholder for a period
    of three years after the date of the transaction in which the
    person became an interested stockholder, unless the business
    combination is approved in the manner prescribed in
    Section 203;



 


     
        • 

    
    our stockholder rights plan is designed to cause substantial
    dilution to a person who attempts to acquire us on terms not
    approved by our board of directors;



 


     
        • 

    
    our board of directors has the authority to issue, without a
    vote or action of stockholders, up to 8,000,000 shares of
    preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and
    privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to
    the rights of holders of common stock;



 


     
        • 

    
    our amended and restated collaboration agreement with Genentech
    provides that, in the event we undergo a change of control,
    within ninety (90) days Genentech may present an offer to
    us to purchase our rights to RITUXAN. Recently, in an
    arbitration proceeding brought by Biogen Idec relating to the
    collaboration agreement, Genentech alleged for the first time
    that the November 2003 transaction in which Idec acquired Biogen
    and became Biogen Idec constituted such a change of control, an
    assertion with which we strongly disagree. It is our position
    that the Biogen Idec merger did not constitute a change of
    control under our agreement with Genentech and that, even if it
    did, Genentech’s rights under the change of control
    provision have long since expired. We intend to vigorously
    assert our position if Genentech persists in making this claim.
    If the arbitrators decide this issue in favor of Genentech, or
    if a change of control were to occur in the






    
    35



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    future and Genentech were to present an offer for the RITUXAN
    rights, we must either accept Genentech’s offer or purchase
    Genentech’s rights to RITUXAN on the same terms as its
    offer. If Genentech presents such an offer, then they will be
    deemed concurrently to have exercised a right, in exchange for a
    share in the operating profits or net sales in the U.S. of
    any other anti CD-20 products developed under the agreement, to
    purchase our interest in each such product. The rights of
    Genentech described in this paragraph may limit our
    attractiveness to potential acquirers;our collaboration
    agreement with Elan provides Elan with the option to buy the
    rights to TYSABRI in the event that we undergo a change of
    control, which may limit our attractiveness to potential
    acquirers;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the
    entire board from being replaced in any single year; and



 


     
        • 

    
    advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for
    election as a director and for proposals to be brought before an
    annual meeting of stock holders.





 



    Item 1B