Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    We are
    substantially dependent on revenues from our three principal
    products.


 


    Our current and future revenues depend upon continued sales of
    our three principal products, AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, which
    represented substantially all of our total revenues during 2010.
    Although we have developed and continue to develop additional
    products for commercial introduction, we may be substantially
    dependent on sales from these three products for many years. Any
    negative developments relating to any of these products, such as
    safety or efficacy issues, the introduction or greater
    acceptance of competing products, including biosimilars, or
    adverse regulatory or legislative developments may reduce our
    revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. New
    competing products for use in multiple sclerosis are beginning
    to enter the market and if they have a similar or more
    attractive profile in terms of efficacy, convenience or safety,
    future sales of AVONEX and TYSABRI could be limited, which would
    reduce our revenues.


 



    TYSABRI’s
    sales growth is important to our success.


 


    We expect that our revenue growth over the next several years
    will be dependent in part upon sales of TYSABRI. If we are not
    successful in growing sales of TYSABRI, our future business
    plans, revenue growth and results of operations may be adversely
    affected.


 


    TYSABRI’s sales growth cannot be certain given the
    significant restrictions on use and the significant safety
    warnings in the label, including the risk of developing
    progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a serious
    brain infection. The risk of developing PML increases with prior
    immunosuppressant use, which may cause patients who have
    previously received immunosuppressants or their physicians to
    refrain from using or prescribing TYSABRI. The risk of
    developing PML also increases with longer treatment duration,
    with limited experience beyond three years. This may cause
    prescribing physicians or patients to suspend treatment with
    TYSABRI. Increased incidences of PML could limit sales growth,
    prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the
    label or result in market withdrawal. Additional regulatory
    restrictions on the use of TYSABRI or safety-related label
    changes, including enhanced risk management programs, whether as
    a result of additional cases of PML or otherwise, may
    significantly reduce expected revenues and require significant
    expense and management time to address the associated legal and
    regulatory issues. In addition, ongoing or future clinical
    trials involving TYSABRI and efforts at stratifying patients
    into groups with lower or higher risk for developing PML,
    including evaluating the potential clinical utility of a JC
    virus antibody assay, may have an adverse impact on prescribing
    behavior and reduce sales of TYSABRI.


 



    If we
    fail to compete effectively, our business and market position
    would suffer.


 


    The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry is intensely
    competitive. We compete in the marketing and sale of our
    products, the development of new products and processes, the
    acquisition of rights to new products with commercial potential
    and the hiring and retention of personnel. We compete with
    biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have a greater
    number of products on the market and in the product pipeline,
    greater financial and other resources and other technological or
    competitive advantages. One or more of our competitors may
    benefit from significantly greater sales and marketing
    capabilities, may develop products that are accepted more widely
    than ours and may receive patent protection that dominates,
    blocks or adversely affects our product development or business.
    In addition, recently enacted healthcare reform legislation in
    the U.S. has created a pathway for the FDA to approve
    biosimilars, which could compete on price and differentiation
    with products that we now or could in the future market. The
    introduction of more efficacious, safer, cheaper, or more
    convenient alternatives to our products could reduce our
    revenues and the value of our product development efforts.


 



    Our
    long-term success depends upon the successful development and
    commercialization of other product candidates.


 


    Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the
    successful development and commercialization of other products
    from our research and development activities, including products
    licensed from third parties. In addition, we have several
    late-stage clinical programs expected to have near-term data
    readouts that could impact our prospects for additional revenue
    growth. Product development and commercialization are very
    expensive and





    
    21



Table of Contents





    involve a high degree of risk. Only a small number of research
    and development programs result in the commercialization of a
    product. Success in preclinical work or early stage clinical
    trials does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical
    trials will be successful. Even if later stage clinical trials
    are successful, product candidates may not receive marketing
    approval if regulatory authorities disagree with our view of the
    data or require additional studies.


 


    Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and
    expensive process. Our ability to complete our clinical trials
    in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key
    factors including protocol design, regulatory and institutional
    review board approval, the rate of patient enrollment in
    clinical trials, and compliance with extensive current good
    clinical practice requirements. We have opened clinical sites
    and are enrolling patients in a number of new countries where
    our experience is more limited, and we are in many cases using
    the services of third-party clinical trial providers. If we fail
    to adequately manage the design, execution and regulatory
    aspects of our large, complex and diverse clinical trials, our
    studies and ultimately our regulatory approvals may be delayed
    or we may fail to gain approval for our product candidates
    altogether.


 


    Our product pipeline includes several small molecule drug
    candidates. Our small molecule drug discovery platform is not as
    well developed as our biologics platform and we expect to rely
    on third party manufacturers to supply substantially all of our
    clinical requirements for small molecules. If these
    manufacturers fail to deliver sufficient quantities of such drug
    candidates in a timely and cost-effective manner, it could
    adversely affect our small molecule drug discovery efforts.


 



    Adverse
    safety events can negatively affect our business and stock
    price.


 


    Adverse safety events involving our marketed products may have a
    negative impact on our commercialization efforts. Later
    discovery of safety issues with our products that were not known
    at the time of their approval by the FDA or other regulatory
    agencies worldwide could cause product liability events,
    additional regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional
    labeling, withdrawal of products from the market and the
    imposition of fines or criminal penalties. Any of these actions
    could result in, among other things, material write-offs of
    inventory and impairments of intangible assets, goodwill and
    fixed assets and material restructuring charges. In addition,
    the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products
    and public rumors about such events could cause our stock price
    to decline or experience periods of volatility.


 



    We
    depend, to a significant extent, on reimbursement from third
    party payors and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement
    could reduce our product sales and revenue.


 


    Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on the
    availability and extent of reimbursement from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. Changes in government regulations or private
    third-party payors’ reimbursement policies may reduce
    reimbursement for our products and adversely affect our future
    results. In addition, when a new medical product is approved,
    the availability of government and private reimbursement for
    that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that
    product will be reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability
    or amount of reimbursement for our product candidates.


 


    The U.S. Congress recently enacted legislation to reform
    the health care system. This legislation imposes cost
    containment measures that have adversely affected the amount of
    reimbursement for our products. These measures include
    increasing the minimum rebates we pay to state Medicaid programs
    for our drugs covered by Medicaid programs; extending such
    rebates to drugs dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in
    Medicaid managed care organizations; and expanding the 340B
    Public Health Service drug discount program under which we are
    obligated to provide certain discounts on our drugs to certain
    purchasers. Additional provisions of the health care reform
    legislation, which become effective in 2011, may negatively
    affect our revenues and prospects for profitability in the
    future. Beginning in 2011, a new fee will be payable by all
    branded prescription drug manufacturers and importers. This fee
    will be calculated based upon each organization’s
    percentage share of total branded prescription drugs sales to
    qualifying U.S. government programs, including Medicare and
    Medicaid. As part of the health care reform legislation’s
    provisions closing a coverage gap that currently exists in the
    Medicare Part D prescription drug





    
    22



Table of Contents





    program (commonly known as the “donut hole”), we will
    also be required to provide a 50% discount on brand name
    prescription drugs sold to beneficiaries who fall within the
    donut hole.


 


    Economic pressure on state budgets may result in states
    increasingly seeking to achieve budget savings through
    mechanisms that limit coverage or payment for our drugs. In
    recent years, some states have considered legislation that would
    control the prices of drugs. State Medicaid programs are
    increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental
    rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program
    for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being
    paid. Managed care organizations continue to seek price
    discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on the
    coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce
    Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care
    organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed
    care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a
    larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint
    on prices and reimbursement for our products. It is likely that
    federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue
    to focus on additional health care reform in the future.


 


    We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most
    other countries. In the European Union and some other
    international markets, the government provides health care at
    low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices,
    patient eligibility or reimbursement levels to control costs for
    the government-sponsored health care system. Many countries are
    reducing their public expenditures and we expect to see strong
    efforts to reduce healthcare costs in our international markets,
    including patient access restrictions, suspensions on price
    increases, prospective and possibly retroactive price reductions
    and increased mandatory discounts or rebates, recoveries of past
    price increases, and greater importation of drugs from
    lower-cost countries to higher-cost countries. We expect that
    our revenues would be negatively impacted if similar measures
    are or are continued to be implemented in other countries in
    which we operate. In addition, certain countries set prices by
    reference to the prices in other countries where our products
    are marketed. Thus, our inability to secure adequate prices in a
    particular country may also impair our ability to obtain
    acceptable prices in existing and potential new markets. This
    may create the opportunity for third party cross border trade or
    influence our decision to sell or not to sell a product, thus
    affecting our geographic expansion plans.


 



    Adverse
    market and economic conditions may exacerbate certain risks
    affecting our business.


 


    Sales of our products are dependent on reimbursement from
    government health administration authorities, private health
    insurers, distribution partners and other organizations. As a
    result of adverse conditions affecting the U.S. and global
    economies and credit and financial markets, including the
    current sovereign debt crisis in certain countries in Europe,
    these organizations may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement
    obligations or may delay payment. In addition, governmental
    health authorities may reduce the extent of reimbursements, and
    private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A
    reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could
    reduce our product sales and revenue, or result in additional
    allowances or significant bad debts, which may adversely affect
    our results of operations.


 



    We
    depend on collaborators and other third-parties for both product
    and royalty revenue and the clinical development of future
    products, which are outside of our full control.


 


    Collaborations between companies on products or programs are a
    common business practice in the biotechnology industry.
    Out-licensing typically allows a partner to collect up front
    payments and future milestone payments, share the costs of
    clinical development and risk of failure at various points, and
    access sales and marketing infrastructure and expertise in
    exchange for certain financial rights to the product or program
    going to the in-licensing partner. In addition, the obligation
    of in-licensees to pay royalties or share profits generally
    terminates upon expiration of the related patents. We have a
    number of collaborators and partners, and have both in-licensed
    and out-licensed several products and programs. These
    collaborations are subject to several risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our RITUXAN revenues are substantially dependent on the efforts
    of Genentech and the Roche Group. Their interests may not always
    be aligned with our interests and they may not market RITUXAN in
    the same manner or to the same extent that we would, which could
    adversely affect our RITUXAN revenues.







    
    23



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Under our collaboration agreement with Genentech, the successful
    development and commercialization of GA101 and certain other
    anti-CD20 products will decrease our percentage of the
    collaboration’s co-promotion profits.




 



     
        • 

    
    We are not fully in control of the royalty or profit sharing
    revenues we receive from collaborators, which may be adversely
    affected by patent expirations, pricing or health care reforms,
    other legal and regulatory developments, and the introduction of
    competitive products, and new indication approvals which may
    affect the sales of collaboration products.




 



     
        • 

    
    Any failure on the part of our collaboration partners to comply
    with applicable laws and regulatory requirements in the sale and
    marketing of our products could have an adverse effect on our
    revenues as well as involve us in possible legal proceedings.




 



     
        • 

    
    Collaborations often require the parties to cooperate, and
    failure to do so effectively could have an adverse impact on
    product sales by our collaborators and partners, and could
    adversely affect the clinical development or regulatory
    approvals of products under joint control.





 


    In addition, we rely on third parties for several other aspects
    of our business. As a sponsor of clinical trials of our
    products, we rely on third party contract research organizations
    to carry out many of our clinical trial related activities.
    These activities include initiating the conduct of studies at
    clinical trial sites, regularly monitoring the conduct of the
    study at study sites, and identifying instances of noncompliance
    with the study protocol or current Good Clinical Practices. The
    failure of a contract research organization to conduct these
    activities with proper vigilance and competence and in
    accordance with Good Clinical Practices can result in regulatory
    authorities rejecting our clinical trial data or, in some
    circumstances, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions
    against us.


 



    If we
    do not successfully execute our growth initiatives through the
    acquisition, partnering and in-licensing of products,
    technologies or companies, our future performance could be
    adversely affected.


 


    We anticipate growing through internal development projects as
    well as external opportunities, which include the acquisition,
    partnering and in-licensing of products, technologies and
    companies or the entry into strategic alliances and
    collaborations. The availability of high quality opportunities
    is limited and we are not certain that we will be able to
    identify candidates that we and our shareholders consider
    suitable or complete transactions on terms that are acceptable
    to us and our shareholders. In order to pursue such
    opportunities, we may require significant additional financing,
    which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all.
    Even if we are able to successfully identify and complete
    acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate them or take full
    advantage of them and therefore may not realize the benefits
    that we expect. If we are unsuccessful in our external growth
    program, we may not be able to grow our business significantly
    and we may incur asset impairment or restructuring charges as a
    result of unsuccessful transactions.


 



    If we
    fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory
    requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face
    increased costs, penalties and a loss of business.


 


    Our activities, and the activities of our collaborators and
    third party providers, are subject to extensive government
    regulation and oversight both in the U.S. and in foreign
    jurisdictions. The FDA and comparable agencies in other
    jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical
    business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and
    clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and
    promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and
    product risk management. Our interactions in the U.S. or
    abroad with physicians and other health care providers that
    prescribe or purchase our products are also subject to
    government regulation designed to prevent fraud and abuse in the
    sale and use of the products. In the U.S., states increasingly
    have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing
    practices of health care companies. In addition, pharmaceutical
    and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and
    investigations alleging violations of government regulation,
    including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing
    information, impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical
    products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal
    or state health care business, submission of false claims for
    government reimbursement, antitrust violations, or violations
    related to environmental matters. Violations of governmental
    regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions
    against us, including fines and civil monetary penalties and
    exclusion from participation in government programs, including





    
    24



Table of Contents





    Medicare and Medicaid, as well as against executives overseeing
    our business. In addition to penalties for violation of laws and
    regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received
    from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest
    if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we
    have submitted to the government. Whether or not we have
    complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful
    conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation,
    divert management time and attention and adversely affect our
    business. Recent changes in U.S. fraud and abuse laws have
    strengthened government regulation, increased the investigative
    powers of government enforcement agencies, and enhanced
    penalties for non-compliance.


 



    If we
    fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental
    regulation in the manufacture of our products, we could incur
    substantial costs and a reduction in sales.


 


    We and our third party providers are generally required to
    maintain compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice and
    are subject to inspections by the FDA and comparable agencies in
    other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. In addition, the
    FDA must approve any significant changes to our suppliers or
    manufacturing methods. If we or our third party service
    providers cannot demonstrate ongoing current Good Manufacturing
    Practice compliance, we may be required to withdraw or recall
    product, interrupt commercial supply of our products, undertake
    costly remediation efforts or seek more costly manufacturing
    alternatives. Any delay, interruption or other issues that arise
    in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our
    products as a result of a failure of our facilities or the
    facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory
    agency inspection could significantly impair our ability to
    develop and commercialize our products. Significant
    noncompliance could also result in the imposition of monetary
    penalties or other civil or criminal sanctions. This
    non-compliance could increase our costs, cause us to lose
    revenue or market share and damage our reputation.


 



    Our
    investments in properties, including our manufacturing
    facilities, may not be fully realizable.


 


    We own or lease real estate primarily consisting of buildings
    that contain research laboratories, office space, and biologic
    manufacturing operations, some of which are located in markets
    that are experiencing high vacancy rates and decreasing property
    values. If we decide to consolidate or co-locate certain aspects
    of our business operations, for strategic or other operational
    reasons, we may dispose of one or more of our properties.


 


    Due to reduced expectations of product demand, improved yields
    on production and other factors, we may not fully utilize our
    manufacturing facilities at normal levels resulting in idle time
    at facilities or substantial excess manufacturing capacity. We
    regularly evaluate our current manufacturing strategy, and may
    pursue alternatives that include disposing of manufacturing
    facilities.


 


    If we determine that the fair value of any of our owned
    properties, including any properties we may classify as held for
    sale, is lower than their book value we may not realize the full
    investment in these properties and incur significant impairment
    charges. In addition, if we decide to fully or partially vacate
    a leased property, we may incur significant cost, including
    lease termination fees, rent expense in excess of sublease
    income and impairment of leasehold improvements.


 



    Problems
    with manufacturing or with inventory planning could result in
    inventory shortages, product recalls and increased
    costs.


 


    Biologics manufacturing is extremely susceptible to product loss
    due to contamination, equipment failure, or vendor or operator
    error. In addition, we may need to close a manufacturing
    facility for an extended period of time due to microbial, viral
    or other contamination. Any of these events could result in
    shipment delays or product recalls, impairing our ability to
    supply products in existing markets or expand into new markets.
    In the past, we have taken inventory write-offs and incurred
    other charges and expenses for products that failed to meet
    specifications, and we may incur similar charges in the future.


 


    We rely solely on our manufacturing facility in Research
    Triangle Park, North Carolina for the production of TYSABRI. Our
    global bulk supply of TYSABRI depends on the uninterrupted and
    efficient operation of this facility, which could be adversely
    affected by equipment failures, labor shortages, natural
    disasters, power failures and numerous other factors. If we are
    unable to meet demand for TYSABRI for any reason, we would need
    to rely on a limited number of qualified third party contract
    manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we could reach
    agreement on reasonable terms, if at all, with those
    manufacturers or that the FDA or other regulatory authorities





    
    25



Table of Contents





    would approve our use of such manufacturers on a timely basis,
    if at all. Moreover, the transition of our manufacturing process
    to a third party could take a significant amount of time,
    involve significant expense and increase our manufacturing costs.


 



    We
    rely on third parties to provide services in connection with the
    manufacture of our products and, in some instances, manufacture
    the product itself.


 


    We rely on Genentech for all RITUXAN manufacturing. Genentech
    relies on a third party to manufacture certain bulk RITUXAN
    requirements. If Genentech or any third party upon which it
    relies does not manufacture or fill-finish RITUXAN in sufficient
    quantities and on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if
    Genentech or any third party does not obtain and maintain all
    required manufacturing approvals, our business could be harmed.


 


    We also source all of our fill-finish and the majority of our
    final product storage operations, along with a substantial
    portion of our packaging operations, to a concentrated group of
    third party contractors. Any third party we use to fill-finish,
    package or store our products to be sold in the U.S. must
    be licensed by the FDA. As a result, alternative third party
    providers may not be readily available on a timely basis or, if
    available, may be more costly than current providers. The
    manufacture of products and product components, fill-finish,
    packaging and storage of our products require successful
    coordination among us and multiple third party providers. Our
    inability to coordinate these efforts, the lack of capacity
    available at a third party contractor or any other problems with
    the operations of these third party contractors could require us
    to delay shipment of saleable products or recall products
    previously shipped or impair our ability to supply products at
    all. This could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or
    market share, diminish our profitability or damage our
    reputation.


 


    Due to the unique manner in which our products are manufactured,
    we rely on single source providers of several raw materials. We
    make efforts to qualify new vendors and to develop contingency
    plans so that production is not impacted by short-term issues
    associated with single source providers. Nonetheless, our
    business could be materially impacted by long-term or chronic
    issues associated with single source providers.


 



    Changes
    in laws affecting the health care industry could adversely
    affect our revenues and profitability.


 


    We and our collaborators and third party providers operate in a
    highly regulated industry. As a result, governmental actions may
    adversely affect our business, operations or financial
    condition, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new
    interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions,
    related to health care availability, method of delivery and
    payment for health care products and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes
    that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and
    result in lost market opportunity;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require
    additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on
    product distribution or use, or other measures after the
    introduction of our products to market, which could increase our
    costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted
    uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the
    market for our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing
    or marketing practices; and




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the tax laws relating to our operations.





 


    The enactment in the U.S. of health care reform, potential
    regulations easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics in
    the marketplace, new legislation or implementation of existing
    statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing
    drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative
    effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and
    possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our
    business.


 



    Our
    effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in
    tax jurisdictions in excess of accrued amounts.


 


    As a global biotechnology company, we are subject to taxation in
    numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. As a result,
    our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of
    applicable tax rates in the various





    
    26



Table of Contents





    places that we operate. In preparing our financial statements,
    we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each
    of such places. Our effective tax rate, however, may be
    different than experienced in the past due to numerous factors,
    including changes in the mix of our profitability from country
    to country, the results of audits of our tax filings, changes in
    accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. Any of
    these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate
    significantly different from previous periods or our current
    expectations.


 


    In addition, our inability to secure or sustain acceptable
    arrangements with tax authorities and previously enacted or
    future changes in the tax laws, among other things, may result
    in tax obligations in excess of amounts accrued in our financial
    statements.


 


    In the U.S., there are several proposals under consideration to
    reform tax law, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate
    the deferral of U.S. income tax on our unrepatriated
    earnings, scrutinize certain transfer pricing structures, and
    reduce or eliminate certain foreign tax credits. Our future
    reported financial results may be adversely affected by tax law
    changes which restrict or eliminate certain foreign tax credits
    or deduct expenses attributable to foreign earnings, or
    otherwise affect the treatment of our unrepatriated earnings.


 



    The
    growth of our business depends on our ability to attract and
    retain qualified personnel and key relationships.


 


    The achievement of our commercial, research and development and
    external growth objectives depends upon our ability to attract
    and retain qualified scientific, manufacturing, sales and
    marketing and executive personnel and to develop and maintain
    relationships with qualified clinical researchers and key
    distributors. Competition for these people and relationships is
    intense and comes from a variety of sources, including
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and
    non-profit research organizations.


 



    Our
    sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally.


 


    We are increasing our presence in international markets, which
    subjects us to many risks, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the inability to obtain necessary foreign regulatory or pricing
    approvals of products in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    the imposition of governmental controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade
    restrictions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in tax laws and tariffs.





 


    In addition, our international operations are subject to
    regulation under U.S. law. For example, the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act prohibits U.S. companies and their
    representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making
    payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or
    retaining business abroad. In many countries, the health care
    professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition
    of a foreign government official for purposes of the Foreign
    Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to comply with domestic or
    foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences,
    including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a
    product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product
    from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions
    and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international
    operations.


 



    Uncertainty
    over intellectual property in the biotechnology industry has
    been the source of litigation, which is inherently costly and
    unpredictable.


 


    We are aware that others, including various universities and
    companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent
    applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and
    in other countries claiming subject matter potentially useful to
    our business. Some of those patents and patent applications
    claim only specific products or methods of making such products,
    while others claim more general processes or techniques useful
    or now used in





    
    27



Table of Contents





    the biotechnology industry. There is considerable uncertainty
    within the biotechnology industry about the validity, scope and
    enforceability of many issued patents in the U.S. and
    elsewhere in the world, and, to date, there is no consistent
    policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology
    patents. We cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and
    validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the
    future or which patents might be asserted to be infringed by the
    manufacture, use and sale of our products.


 


    There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be,
    significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and
    other intellectual property rights. Litigation and
    administrative proceedings concerning patents and other
    intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and
    distracting to management. Competitors may sue us as a way of
    delaying the introduction of our products. Any litigation,
    including any interference proceedings to determine priority of
    inventions, oppositions to patents in foreign countries or
    litigation against our partners may be costly and time consuming
    and could harm our business. We expect that litigation may be
    necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope
    of certain of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be
    necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or
    non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third
    parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our
    products. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could
    adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other
    proprietary rights or hinder our ability to manufacture and
    market our products.


 



    If we
    are unable to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual
    property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our
    development efforts or our acquired technology.


 


    We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and
    various other countries seeking protection of the processes,
    products and other inventions originating from our research and
    development. Patents have been issued on many of these
    applications. We have also obtained rights to various patents
    and patent applications under licenses with third parties, which
    provide for the payment of royalties by us. The ultimate degree
    of patent protection that will be afforded to biotechnology
    products and processes, including ours, in the U.S. and in
    other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon
    the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices,
    courts and lawmakers in these countries. Our patents may not
    afford us substantial protection or commercial benefit.
    Similarly, our pending patent applications or patent
    applications licensed from third parties may not ultimately be
    granted as patents and we may not prevail if patents that have
    been issued to us are challenged in court. In addition, pending
    legislation to reform the patent system and court decisions or
    patent office regulations that place additional restrictions on
    patent claims or that facilitate patent challenges could also
    reduce our ability to protect our intellectual property rights.
    If we cannot prevent others from exploiting our inventions, we
    will not derive the benefit from them that we currently expect.


 


    We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and other proprietary
    information, and we cannot ensure that others will not
    independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary
    information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade
    secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully
    protect such rights. We require our employees, consultants,
    outside scientific collaborators, scientists whose research we
    sponsor and other advisers to execute confidentiality agreements
    upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships
    with us. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection
    or adequate remedies for our unpatented proprietary information
    in the event of use or disclosure of such information.


 



    If our
    products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we
    may incur damages and be required to incur the expense of
    obtaining a license.


 


    A substantial number of patents have already been issued to
    other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. To the extent
    that valid third party patent rights cover our products or
    services, we or our strategic collaborators would be required to
    seek licenses from the holders of these patents in order to
    manufacture, use or sell these products and services, and
    payments under them would reduce our profits from these products
    and services. We are currently unable to predict the extent to
    which we may wish or be required to acquire rights under such
    patents and the availability and cost of acquiring such rights,
    or whether a license to such patents will be available on
    acceptable terms or at all. There may be patents in the
    U.S. or in foreign countries or patents issued in the
    future that are unavailable to license on acceptable terms. Our
    inability to obtain such licenses may hinder our ability to
    manufacture and market our products.




    
    28



Table of Contents






    Pending
    and future product liability claims may adversely affect our
    business and our reputation.


 


    The administration of drugs in humans, whether in clinical
    studies or commercially, carries the inherent risk of product
    liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause
    of an injury. Our products or product candidates may cause, or
    may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug
    interactions, and we may not learn about or understand those
    effects until the product or product candidate has been
    administered to patients for a prolonged period of time.


 


    We are subject from time to time to lawsuits based on product
    liability and related claims. We cannot predict with certainty
    the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. We may
    not be successful in defending ourselves in the litigation and,
    as a result, our business could be materially harmed. These
    lawsuits may result in large judgments or settlements against
    us, any of which could have a negative effect on our financial
    condition and business if in excess of our insurance coverage.
    Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive to defend, whether or
    not they have merit, and the defense of these actions may divert
    the attention of our management and other resources that would
    otherwise be engaged in managing our business.


 



    Our
    operating results are subject to significant
    fluctuations.


 


    Our quarterly revenues, expenses and net income (loss) have
    fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly
    in the future due to the timing of charges and expenses that we
    may take. In recent periods, for instance, we have recorded
    charges that include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the cost of restructurings;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairments that we are required to take with respect to
    investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairments that we are required to take with respect to fixed
    assets, including those that are recorded in connection with the
    sale of fixed assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    inventory write-downs for failed quality specifications, charges
    for excess or obsolete inventory and charges for inventory write
    downs relating to product suspensions;




 



     
        • 

    
    milestone payments under license and collaboration agreements;
    and




 



     
        • 

    
    payments in connection with acquisitions and other business
    development activity.





 


    Our revenues are also subject to foreign exchange rate
    fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. We
    recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our
    operations in the period in which we incur those gains or
    losses. Although we have foreign currency forward contracts to
    hedge specific forecasted transactions denominated in foreign
    currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may
    not be successful. As a result, currency fluctuations among our
    reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and the currencies in
    which we do business will affect our operating results, often in
    unpredictable ways. Our net income may also fluctuate due to the
    impact of charges we may be required to take with respect to
    foreign currency hedge transactions. In particular, we may incur
    higher charges from hedge ineffectiveness than we expect or from
    the termination of a hedge relationship.


 


    These examples are only illustrative and other risks, including
    those discussed in these “Risk Factors,” could
    also cause fluctuations in our reported earnings. In addition,
    our operating results during any one period do not necessarily
    suggest the anticipated results of future periods.


 



    Our
    portfolio of marketable securities is significant and subject to
    market, interest and credit risk that may reduce its
    value.


 


    We maintain a significant portfolio of marketable securities.
    Changes in the value of this portfolio could adversely affect
    our earnings. In particular, the value of our investments may
    decline due to increases in interest rates, downgrades in the
    corporate bonds and other securities included in our portfolio,
    instability in the global financial markets that reduces the
    liquidity of securities included in our portfolio, declines in
    the value of collateral underlying the mortgage and asset-backed
    securities included in our portfolio, and other factors. Each of
    these events may cause us to record charges to reduce the
    carrying value of our investment portfolio or sell investments
    for





    
    29



Table of Contents





    less than our acquisition cost. Although we attempt to mitigate
    these risks by investing in high quality securities and
    continuously monitoring our portfolio’s overall risk
    profile, the value of our investments may nevertheless decline.


 



    Our
    level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business and
    limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our
    business.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we had $1.2 billion of
    outstanding indebtedness, and we may incur additional debt in
    the future. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our
    business by, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby
    reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes,
    including business development efforts and research and
    development;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to,
    changes in our business and the industry in which we operate,
    thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that may have less debt; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry
    conditions.





 



    Our
    business involves environmental risks, which include the cost of
    compliance and the risk of contamination or
    injury.


 


    Our business and the business of several of our strategic
    partners, including Genentech and Elan, involve the controlled
    use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive
    compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for
    handling and disposing of such materials comply with state and
    federal standards, there will always be the risk of accidental
    contamination or injury. If we were to become liable for an
    accident, or if we were to suffer an extended facility shutdown,
    we could incur significant costs, damages and penalties that
    could harm our business. Biologics manufacturing also requires
    permits from government agencies for water supply and wastewater
    discharge. If we do not obtain appropriate permits, or permits
    for sufficient quantities of water and wastewater, we could
    incur significant costs and limits on our manufacturing volumes
    that could harm our business.


 



    Several
    aspects of our corporate governance and our collaboration
    agreements may discourage a third party from attempting to
    acquire us.


 


    Several factors might discourage a takeover attempt that could
    be viewed as beneficial to shareholders who wish to receive a
    premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without a
    vote or action of shareholders, shares of preferred stock and to
    fix the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those
    shares, which shares could be used to dilute the interest of a
    potential bidder.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our collaboration agreements with Elan and Genentech
    respectively allow Elan to purchase our rights to TYSABRI and
    Genentech to purchase our rights to RITUXAN and certain
    anti-CD20 products developed under the agreement if we undergo a
    change of control and certain other conditions are met, which
    may limit our attractiveness to potential acquirers.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the
    entire board from being replaced in any single year.





 



    The
    possibility that activist shareholders may gain additional
    representation on or control of our Board of Directors could
    result in costs and disruption to our operations and cause
    uncertainty about the direction of our business.


 


    Entities affiliated with Carl Icahn commenced proxy contests in
    2008, 2009 and 2010, resulting in three of their director
    nominees being elected to our Board of Directors. In addition,
    recent SEC rulemaking gives certain shareholders or groups of
    shareholders the ability to include director nominees and
    proposals relating to a shareholder nomination process in
    company proxy materials. As a result, we may face an increase in
    the number of shareholder nominees for election to our Board of
    Directors. Future proxy contests could be costly and time-





    
    30



Table of Contents





    consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of
    management and our employees from executing our strategic plan.
    Disagreement among our directors may create uncertainty
    regarding the direction of our business and could impair our
    ability to effectively execute our strategic plan.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B