Item 1A — Risk
    Factors — Safety Issues with TYSABRI Could
    Significantly Affect our Growth.”


 


    ZEVALIN®
    (ibritumomab tiuxetan).  The ZEVALIN therapeutic
    regimen, which features ZEVALIN, is a radioimmunotherapy that is
    approved for the treatment of patients with relapsed or
    refractory low-grade, follicular, or transformed B-cell NHL,
    including patients with RITUXAN relapsed or refractory NHL. In
    2005, sales of ZEVALIN in the U.S. generated revenues of
    $19.4 million as compared to revenues of $18.7 million
    in 2004. ZEVALIN is approved in the EU for the treatment of
    adult patients with CD20¡ follicular B-cell NHL who are
    refractory to or have relapsed following RITUXAN therapy. We
    sell ZEVALIN to Schering AG for distribution in the EU, and
    receive royalty revenues from Schering AG on sales of ZEVALIN in
    the EU. Rest of world product sales for ZEVALIN in 2005 were
    $1.4 million as compared to $4.3 million in 2004. The
    $4.3 million of rest of world product sales in 2004 relates
    to ZEVALIN sold to Schering AG in 2003 and 2004, recognition of
    which had been deferred when the selling price was fixed and
    determinable.


 


    AMEVIVE®
    (alefacept).  AMEVIVE is approved in the U.S. and
    other countries for the treatment of adult patients with
    moderate-to-severe
    chronic plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy
    or phototherapy. In 2005, sales of AMEVIVE generated worldwide
    revenues of $48.5 million as compared to sales of
    $43.0 million in 2004. We are seeking to divest AMEVIVE as
    part of a comprehensive strategic plan which is discussed below.


 


    We also receive royalty revenues on sales by our licensees of a
    number of products covered under patents that we control. In
    addition, we have a pipeline of research and development
    products in our core therapeutic areas and in other areas of
    interest.


 


    We devote significant resources to research and development
    programs. In connection with the strategic plan discussed below,
    we intend to commit significant additional capital to external
    research and development opportunities. We intend to focus our
    internal and external research and development efforts on
    finding novel therapeutics in areas of high unmet medical need
    and finding therapeutics in our focus areas of oncology,
    neurobiology and immunology. Our current efforts include our
    collaboration with Elan on the development of TYSABRI as a
    potential treatment for Crohn’s disease; our work with
    Genentech and Roche on the development of RITUXAN in additional
    oncology indications, RA and MS; our collaboration with
    Fumapharm AG, or Fumapharm, on development of an oral therapy as
    a potential treatment for psoriasis and MS; and our
    collaboration with PDL BioPharma, Inc., or PDL, on development
    of three Phase 2 antibody products in a variety of
    indications.


 


    Comprehensive Strategic Plan.  In September
    2005, we began implementing a comprehensive strategic plan
    designed to position us for long-term growth. The plan builds on
    the continuing strength of AVONEX and RITUXAN and other expected
    near-term developments. The plan has three principal elements:
    reducing operating expenses and enhancing economic flexibility
    by recalibrating our asset base, geographic site missions,
    staffing levels and business processes; committing significant
    additional capital to external business development and research
    opportunities; and changing our organizational culture to
    enhance innovation and support the first two elements of the
    plan. In conjunction with the plan, we consolidated or
    eliminated certain internal management layers and staff
    functions, resulting in the reduction of our workforce by
    approximately 17%, or approximately 650 positions worldwide.
    These adjustments took place across Company functions,
    departments and sites, and have been substantially implemented.
    In February 2006, we sold our NICO clinical manufacturing
    facility in Oceanside, California to Genentech. In addition, we
    are seeking to divest several non-core assets, including AMEVIVE
    and certain real property in Oceanside, California. Our AMEVIVE
    assets held for sale include $8.0 million related to
    intangible assets, net, and $5.4 million for property,
    plant and equipment, net. In addition, our AMEVIVE inventory
    balance at December 31, 2005 was $49.8 million, of
    which $24.8 million related to the historical manufacturing
    costs and $25.0 million related to the increase in fair
    market value of inventory acquired at the merger, as described
    below.


 


    Merger.  On November 12, 2003, Bridges
    Merger Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of IDEC
    Pharmaceuticals Corporation, was merged with and into Biogen,
    Inc. with Biogen, Inc. continuing as the surviving corporation
    and a wholly owned subsidiary of IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation. At the same time, IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation
    changed its name to Biogen Idec Inc. The merger and name change
    were made under



    
    2



Table of Contents




    an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 20, 2003.
    As a result of the merger, each issued and outstanding share of
    Biogen, Inc. common stock was converted into the right to
    receive 1.15 shares of Biogen Idec common stock. Our stock
    trades on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol
    “BIIB.” The results of Biogen, Inc.’s operations
    from November 13, 2003, the day after the effective date of
    the merger, to December 31, 2003 have been included in the
    2003 consolidated financial statements filed in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    Available Information.  We are a Delaware
    corporation with principal executive offices located at
    14 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142. Our
    telephone number is
    (617) 679-2000
    and our website address is www.biogenidec.com. We make available
    free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our
    website our Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.
    We include our website address in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be
    an active link to our website. You may read and copy materials
    we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. You
    may get information on the operation of the Public Reference
    Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains on internet site that contains reports, proxy
    and information statements, and other information regarding
    issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.



    
    3



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    Products — Approved Indications and Ongoing
    Development


 


    Our products are targeted to address a variety of key medical
    needs in the areas of oncology, neurology, dermatology and
    rheumatology. Our marketed products and late stage product
    candidates are as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


 


 


 


 


    Development and/or
    





    Product



 


    Product Indications


 


    Status


 


    Marketing
    Collaborators



 





    AVONEX



 


    Certain forms of MS
    


 


    Approved worldwide
    


 


    None
    




 


 


    




 


 


    Chronic Inflammatory
    Demyelinating
    Polyradioneuropathy
    


 


    Phase 2
    


 


    None
    




 


 


    





    RITUXAN



 


    Relapsed or refractory indolent
    B-cell NHL
    


 


    Approved worldwide
    


 


    All RITUXAN Indications:
    U.S. — Genentech
    Outside U.S. and Japan — 
    Roche Japan —  Roche and Zenyaku
    




 


 


    




 


 


    Newly diagnosed diffuse, large
    B-cell NHL
    


 


    U.S — Approved
    


 


    See above
    




 


 


    




 


 


    RA
    


 


    U.S. — Approved for
    certain patients who have inadequately responded to one or more
    anti-TNF antagonist therapies
    Phase 3 — DMARD failures
    


 


    See above
    




 


 


    




 


 


    Newly diagnosed indolent NHL
    


 


    Phase 3
    


 


    See above
    




 


 


    




 


 


    Relapsed chronic lymphocytic
    leukemia
    


 


    Phase 3
    


 


    See above
    




 


 


    




 


 


    Lupus/MS
    


 


    Phase 3
    


 


    See above
    




 


 


    





    ZEVALIN



 


    Certain B-cell NHLs
    (radioimmunotherapy)
    


 


    Approved — U.S. and
    EU
    


 


    Outside
    U.S. — Schering AG
    




 


 


    




 


 


    Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma
    


 


    Phase 3
    


 


    Outside
    U.S. — Schering AG
    




 


 


    





    AMEVIVE



 


    Moderate-to-severe
    chronic plaque psoriasis
    


 


    Approved —  U.S. and
    other countries; seeking to divest
    


 


    None; seeking to divest
    




 


 


    





    TYSABRI



 


    MS
    


 


    U.S. — Approved in
    U.S. in November 2004; marketing, commercial distribution
    and dosing in clinical studies suspended in February 2005;
    clinical trial hold removed in February 2006; sBLA currently
    under Priority Review
    EU — Under regulatory review
    


 


    Elan
    




 


 


    




 


 


    Crohn’s disease
    


 


    EU — Under
    regulatory review Phase 3 — Three
    Phase 3 trials completed; dosing in clinical studies
    suspended in February 2005
    


 


    Elan
    




 


 


    




    Anti-CD80
    antibody


 


    Relapsed or refractory follicular
    lymphoma
    


 


    Phase 2 completed
    Phase 3 expected to begin in
    second half of 2006
    


 


    None
    




 


 


    




    BG-12/
    PANACLAR


 


    MS
    


 


    Phase 2 completed
    


 


    Fumapharm
    




 


 


    




 


 


    Psoriasis
    


 


    Under regulatory
    review —  Germany
    


 


    Fumapharm
    









    
    4



Table of Contents



 



    AVONEX


 


    We currently market and sell AVONEX worldwide for the treatment
    of relapsing forms of MS. In 2005, sales of AVONEX generated
    worldwide revenues of $1.5 billion as compared to worldwide
    revenues of $1.4 billion in 2004. AVONEX was sold by
    Biogen, Inc. until November 12, 2003. Our consolidated
    financial statements include only the results of operations of
    Biogen, Inc. since November 13, 2003. Our revenues from
    AVONEX during the period from November 13, 2003 to
    December 31, 2003 were $142.6 million.


 


    MS is a progressive neurological disease in which the body loses
    the ability to transmit messages along nerve cells, leading to a
    loss of muscle control, paralysis and, in some cases, death.
    Patients with active relapsing MS experience an uneven pattern
    of disease progression characterized by periods of stability
    that are interrupted by flare-ups of the disease after which the
    patient returns to a new baseline of functioning. AVONEX is a
    recombinant form of a protein produced in the body by fibroblast
    cells in response to viral infection. AVONEX has been shown in
    clinical trials in relapsing forms of MS both to slow the
    accumulation of disability and to reduce the frequency of
    flare-ups. AVONEX is approved to treat relapsing forms of MS,
    including patients with a first clinical episode and MRI
    features consistent with MS. Biogen, Inc. began selling AVONEX
    in the U.S. in 1996, and in the EU in 1997. AVONEX is on
    the market in more than 60 countries. Based on data from an
    independent third party research organization, information from
    our distributors and internal analysis, we believe that AVONEX
    is the most prescribed therapeutic product for the treatment of
    MS worldwide. Globally, over 130,000 patients have selected
    AVONEX as their treatment of choice.


 


    We continue to work to expand the data available about AVONEX
    and MS treatments. In September 2005, we announced the
    initiation of the Global Adherence Project, or GAP, the largest
    multi-national study of its kind to date to evaluate patient
    adherence to long-term treatments for MS in a real-world
    setting. GAP is a global multi-center, cross-sectional
    observational study that will investigate factors that influence
    non-adherence to MS therapies. The study aims to enroll over
    1,800 patients with relapsing remitting MS in 24 countries
    who are currently taking one of the following therapies: AVONEX,
    Betaseron®
    (Interferon beta-1b),
    Copaxone®
    (glatiramer acetate), or
    Rebif®
    (Interferon beta-1a). Patients will be evaluated through a
    validated MS quality of life scale, as well as a self-reported
    questionnaire that collects data on disease status, treatment,
    and factors that may have affected adherence to treatment during
    the course of their therapy.


 


    We have also extended the Controlled High Risk AVONEX Multiple
    Sclerosis Prevention Study In Ongoing Neurological Surveillance,
    or CHAMPIONS. CHAMPIONS was originally designed to determine
    whether the effect of early treatment with AVONEX in delaying
    relapses and reducing the accumulation of MS brain lesions could
    be sustained for up to five years. The study results showed that
    AVONEX altered the long-term course of MS in patients who began
    treatment immediately after their initial MS attack compared to
    initiation of treatment more than two years after onset of
    symptoms. The five-year study extension is intended to determine
    if the effects of early treatment with AVONEX can be sustained
    for up to ten years. We also continue to support Phase 4
    investigator-run studies evaluating AVONEX in combination with
    other therapies. In addition, we are conducting a Phase 2
    study of AVONEX as a treatment for Chronic Inflammatory
    Demyelinating Polyradioneuropathy.


 


    In February 2005, in consultation with the FDA, we and Elan
    voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial distribution
    of our other MS drug, TYSABRI, and suspended dosing in all
    clinical studies of TYSABRI, including clinical studies of
    TYSABRI in combination with AVONEX. These decisions were based
    on reports of two cases of PML, a rare and frequently fatal,
    demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, that have
    occurred in patients treated with TYSABRI in combination with
    AVONEX. For additional information related to TYSABRI and PML,
    see “Our Products  —  Approved
    Indications and Ongoing
    Development — TYSABRI.”


 



    RITUXAN


 


    Overview.  RITUXAN is approved worldwide for
    the treatment of relapsed or refractory low-grade or follicular,
    CD20-positive, B-cell NHLs, which comprise approximately half of
    the B-cell NHLs diagnosed in the U.S. In February 2006,
    RITUXAN was approved by the FDA to treat previously untreated
    patients with diffuse, large B-cell NHLs in combination with a
    chemotherapy regimen consisting of cyclophosphamide,
    doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone, also known as CHOP, or
    other anthracycline-based chemotherapy regimens. In addition, in
    February 2006, the FDA approved the sBLA for use of RITUXAN, in
    combination with methotrexate, for



    
    5



Table of Contents




    reducing signs and symptoms in adult patients with
    moderately-to-severely active RA who have had an inadequate
    response to one or more TNF antagonist therapies.


 


    We copromote RITUXAN in the U.S. in collaboration with
    Genentech. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by
    Genentech and we record our share of the pretax copromotion
    profits on a quarterly basis. In 2005, RITUXAN generated
    U.S. net sales of $1.8 billion, of which we recorded
    $513.8 million as our share of copromotion profits, as
    compared to U.S. net sales of $1.6 billion in 2004, of
    which we recorded $457.0 million as our share of
    copromotion profits. Roche sells RITUXAN outside the U.S.,
    except in Japan where it co-markets RITUXAN in collaboration
    with Zenyaku. We received royalties through Genentech on sales
    of RITUXAN outside of the U.S. of $147.5 million in
    2005 as compared to $121.0 million in 2004. In the U.S., we
    also share responsibility with Genentech for continued
    development. Such continued development includes conducting
    supportive research and post-approval clinical studies and
    seeking potential approval for additional indications. Genentech
    provides the support functions for the commercialization of
    RITUXAN in the U.S. and has worldwide manufacturing
    responsibilities. See “Sales, Marketing and
    Distribution — RITUXAN and ZEVALIN” and
    “Manufacturing and Raw Materials.” We also have the
    right to collaborate with Genentech on the development of other
    humanized anti-CD20 antibodies targeting B-cell disorders for a
    broad range of indications, and to copromote with Genentech any
    new products resulting from such development in the
    U.S. The most advanced such humanized anti-CD20 antibody
    under development is currently finishing Phase 1/2 trials
    for use in RA.


 


    RITUXAN in Oncology.  RITUXAN is generally
    administered as outpatient therapy by personnel trained in
    administering chemotherapies or biologics. RITUXAN is unique in
    the treatment of B-cell NHLs due to its specificity for the
    antigen CD20, which is expressed only on the surface of normal B
    cells and malignant B cells. Stem cells (including B-cell
    progenitors or precursor B-cells) in bone marrow lack the CD20
    antigen. This allows healthy B-cells to regenerate after
    treatment with RITUXAN and to return to normal levels within
    several months. RITUXAN’s mechanism of action, in part,
    utilizes the body’s own immune system as compared to
    conventional lymphoma therapies. In February 2006, RITUXAN was
    approved by the FDA to treat previously untreated patients with
    diffuse, large B-cell NHLs in combination with CHOP or other
    anthracycline-based chemotherapy regimens. The approval was
    based primarily on the results of the following studies:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    A randomized Phase 3 study, known as ECOG 4494, of patients
    age 60 or older with newly diagnosed, diffuse, large
    B-cell, or aggressive non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, comparing
    CHOP alone to a regimen of RITUXAN plus CHOP, also known as
    R-CHOP, as a front-line or induction therapy followed by RITUXAN
    maintenance therapy or observation for those patients who
    responded positively to either R-CHOP or CHOP alone. The study
    is a U.S. Intergroup study led by the Eastern Cooperative
    Oncology Group, or ECOG, and enrolled 632 subjects. The primary
    endpoint of the induction and maintenance phases of the study
    was time to treatment failure. Due to the observed interaction
    between RITUXAN maintenance and induction therapy, additional
    analyses were performed to compare induction therapy with R-CHOP
    versus CHOP alone, removing the effects of subsequent RITUXAN
    maintenance therapy. Based on these additional analyses, the
    investigators concluded that patients who received R-CHOP
    induction therapy experienced prolonged time to treatment
    failure and overall survival compared to patients who received
    induction therapy with CHOP alone. In the maintenance phase of
    the study, patients treated with RITUXAN maintenance therapy for
    up to an additional two years after completing induction therapy
    had a statistically significant delay in time to treatment
    failure compared to patients who did not receive RITUXAN
    maintenance therapy following induction. This advantage appears
    predominantly confined to patients who received CHOP alone
    during the induction phase;



 


     
        • 

    
    A large Phase 3 randomized study of 824 patients,
    known as MinT, designed to evaluate RITUXAN in combination with
    chemotherapy as a front-line treatment for aggressive large,
    B-cell NHL in patients age 18 to 60. This study, which was
    conducted by an international cooperative group and sponsored by
    Roche, met its pre-specified primary efficacy endpoint early.
    Positive results from the study were announced in June 2004. The
    study authors concluded that data from the study demonstrated a
    significant improvement in time to treatment failure, the
    primary endpoint of the study. At two years, 81% of patients who
    received RITUXAN and chemotherapy did not experience treatment
    failure compared to 58% of patients who received chemotherapy
    alone. An analysis performed in 2005 showed a survival advantage
    to adding RITUXAN to chemotherapy; and






    
    6



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Group d’Etude des Lymphome d’Adulte study, also
    known as the GELA trial, designed to evaluate the efficacy and
    safety of R-CHOP in patients 60 years of age or older with
    diffuse, large B-cell lymphoma. Previously untreated patients
    were randomized to receive eight cycles of CHOP alone or eight
    doses of R-CHOP. In this multi-center trial, with median
    follow-up of
    five years, overall survival for patients who had received
    RITUXAN plus CHOP was significantly prolonged compared with
    those who had received CHOP alone.





 


    In an effort to identify additional applications for RITUXAN,
    we, in conjunction with Genentech and Roche, continue to support
    RITUXAN post-marketing studies. Ongoing and completed
    Phase 2 and 3 studies have helped support filings for
    approval of additional indications in the U.S. and EU, and
    suggest that RITUXAN may have promise as a single agent in the
    treatment of relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or CLL, and
    as maintenance therapy in indolent B-cell NHLs. These studies
    include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    A randomized Phase 3 study of the addition of RITUXAN to a
    chemotherapy regimen of cyclophosphamide, vincristine and
    prednisone, also known as CVP, in previously untreated, or front
    line patients with indolent non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. In this
    investigator-run study, 321 patients who had not received
    previous treatment for CD20 positive follicular or indolent
    non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma were randomized to receive either
    CVP alone or CVP with RITUXAN. Results of the study updated in
    2005 indicated that the addition of RITUXAN to CVP prolonged
    time to treatment failure, the primary endpoint of the study, to
    34 months compared to 15 months for patients treated
    with CVP alone;



 


     
        • 

    
    A multi-center, randomized Phase 2 study of
    114 patients with relapsed indolent non-Hodgkin’s
    lymphoma designed to compare the efficacy of RITUXAN maintenance
    therapy to retreatment with RITUXAN. Maintenance therapy was
    defined as treatment with RITUXAN every six months for two years
    with the objective of keeping lymphoma from returning or
    progressing. Retreatment was defined as waiting until the
    disease progressed prior to administering another course of
    RITUXAN. The initial results of this investigator-run study
    showed that patients who received RITUXAN maintenance therapy
    experienced 31 months of progression-free survival as
    compared to 8 months of progression-free survival for those
    patients who received retreatment; and



 


     
        • 

    
    A Phase 3 study, known as E1496, designed to compare
    RITUXAN maintenance therapy versus observation in patients with
    previously untreated indolent non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma who
    achieved stable disease or better after induction therapy with
    CVP. The study, which was led by ECOG, met its pre-specified
    primary efficacy endpoint early. Positive results from the study
    were announced in June 2004. The study authors concluded that
    there was a significant improvement in progression free
    survival, the primary endpoint of the study. The authors
    estimated that 56% of patients who received RITUXAN maintenance
    therapy were free of disease progression and alive at
    4 years compared to 32% of patients who received no further
    treatment. In this trial, maintenance therapy began four weeks
    after the last cycle of chemotherapy and was defined as four
    doses of RITUXAN every six months for two years.





 


    We, along with Genentech and Roche, are also conducting a
    multi-center global Phase 3 registrational study in
    patients with relapsed CLL comparing the use of fludarabine,
    cyclophosphamide and RITUXAN together, known as FCR, versus
    fludarabine and cyclophosphamide alone. This study is open at
    multiple sites worldwide. Additional clinical studies are
    ongoing in other B-cell malignancies such as lymphoproliferative
    disorders associated with solid organ transplant therapies,
    relapsed aggressive non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and mantle cell
    non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.


 


    RITUXAN in RA.  In February 2006, the FDA
    approved the sBLA for use of RITUXAN, in combination with
    methotrexate, for reducing signs and symptoms in adult patients
    with moderately-to-severely active RA who have had an inadequate
    response to one or more TNF antagonist therapies. The sBLA was
    based primarily on the results of a Phase 3 study known as
    REFLEX (Random Evaluation of Long-Term Efficacy of Rituximab in
    RA), announced in April 2005, which met its primary endpoint of
    a greater proportion of RITUXAN-treated patients achieving an
    American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 20 response at
    week 24, compared to placebo. REFLEX included patients with
    active RA who had an inadequate response or were intolerant
    prior to treatment with one or more anti-TNF therapies. In
    November 2005, we, along with Roche, announced the following
    additional
    24-week
    efficacy data from REFLEX: 51% of patients achieved ACR 20,
    the primary endpoint of the study, versus 18% of placebo
    patients; 27% of patients achieved ACR 50, versus 5% of placebo
    patients; and 12% of patients achieved



    
    7



Table of Contents




    ACR 20, versus 1% of placebo patients. We, along with
    Genentech and Roche, expect to initiate a Phase 3 study of
    RITUXAN in RA patients who are inadequate responders to
    disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, or DMARDs, in the first
    half of 2006.


 


    RITUXAN in Other Immunology Indications.  Based
    primarily on results from the studies of RITUXAN in RA, as well
    as other small investigator-sponsored studies in various
    autoimmune-mediated diseases, we, along with Genentech, are
    conducting Phase 3 clinical studies of RITUXAN in MS and
    lupus.


 



    TYSABRI


 


    Overview.  The FDA granted accelerated approval
    for TYSABRI in November 2004 to treat relapsing forms of MS to
    reduce the frequency of clinical relapses. The approval was
    based on one-year data from two Phase 3 clinical studies:
    AFFIRM (natalizumab safety and efficacy in relapsing-remitting
    MS) and SENTINEL (safety and efficacy of natalizumab in
    combination with AVONEX). In February 2005, in consultation with
    the FDA, we and Elan voluntarily suspended the marketing and
    commercial distribution of TYSABRI, and we informed physicians
    that they should suspend dosing of TYSABRI until further
    notification. In addition, we suspended dosing in clinical
    studies of TYSABRI in MS, Crohn’s disease and RA. These
    decisions were based on reports of cases of PML, a rare and
    potentially fatal, demyelinating disease of the central nervous
    system, in patients treated with TYSABRI in clinical studies. We
    and Elan conducted a safety evaluation of patients treated with
    TYSABRI in MS, Crohn’s disease and RA clinical studies. The
    safety evaluation included the review of any reports of
    potential PML in MS patients receiving TYSABRI in the commercial
    setting. In October 2005, we completed the safety evaluation and
    found no new confirmed cases of PML. Three confirmed cases of
    PML were previously reported, two of which were fatal. In
    September 2005, we submitted an sBLA for TYSABRI to the FDA for
    the treatment of MS. The sBLA includes: final two-year data from
    the Phase 3 AFFIRM monotherapy trial and SENTINEL
    combination trial with AVONEX in MS; the integrated safety
    assessment of patients treated with TYSABRI in clinical trials;
    and a revised label and a risk minimization action plan. In
    November 2005, we were granted Priority Review status for the
    sBLA which will result in action by the FDA approximately six
    months from the submission date, which is in March 2006. In
    January 2006, we and Elan announced that we had received
    notification from the FDA that the Peripheral and Central
    Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee would review TYSABRI for
    the treatment of MS on March 7, 2006. In February 2006, we
    and Elan announced that the FDA informed the companies that the
    FDA removed the hold on clinical trial dosing of TYSABRI. We and
    Elan expect to begin an open-label, multi-center safety
    extension study of TYSABRI monotherapy in the U.S. and
    internationally in the first quarter of 2006. We are working
    closely with the FDA to determine the future commercial
    availability of the product in the U.S. See
    “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors — Safety Issues with TYSABRI Could
    Significantly Affect our Growth.”


 


    In October 2005, we and Elan submitted a data package to the
    EMEA similar to the sBLA submitted to the FDA in September 2005.
    This information was supplied as part of the ongoing EMEA review
    process, which was initiated in the summer of 2004 with the
    submission of a Marketing Authorisation Application, or MAA, to
    the EMEA for approval of TYSABRI as a treatment for MS. We are
    working closely with the EMEA to determine the future commercial
    availability of TYSABRI in the EU. See
    “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors — Safety Issues with TYSABRI Could
    Significantly Affect our Growth.”


 


    In September 2004, Elan submitted an MAA to the EMEA for
    approval of TYSABRI as a treatment for Crohn’s disease. One
    of the confirmed cases of PML was in a patient who was in a
    clinical study of TYSABRI in Crohn’s disease. The review of
    the safety database conducted by us and Elan after the TYSABRI
    suspension led to a serious adverse event previously reported as
    malignant astrocytoma by a clinical investigator in a clinical
    study of TYSABRI in Crohn’s disease to be reassessed as
    PML. As with the MAA for MS, we are working closely with the
    EMEA in order to provide them with information regarding the
    results of the safety evaluation and any additional information
    that they may request. See
    “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors — Safety Issues with TYSABRI Could
    Significantly Affect our Growth.”


 


    TYSABRI binds to adhesion molecules on the immune cell surface
    known as alpha-4 integrin. Adhesion molecules on the surface of
    the immune cells play an important role in the migration of the
    immune cells in the inflammatory process. Research suggests that
    by binding to alpha-4 integrin, TYSABRI prevents immune cells
    from migrating from the bloodstream into tissue where they can
    cause inflammation and potentially damage nerve fibers and their
    insulation.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    PHASE 3 Studies of TYSABRI in MS.  Prior to the
    suspension of dosing in clinical studies of TYSABRI we, along
    with Elan, completed the AFFIRM study and the SENTINEL study.
    The AFFIRM study was designed to evaluate the ability of
    natalizumab to slow the progression of disability in MS and
    reduce the rate of clinical relapses. The SENTINEL study was
    designed to evaluate the effect of the combination of
    natalizumab and AVONEX compared to treatment with AVONEX alone
    in slowing progression of disability and reducing the rate of
    clinical relapses. Both studies were two-year studies which had
    protocols that included a one-year analysis of the data.


 


    The AFFIRM study.  The one-year data from the
    AFFIRM study showed that TYSABRI reduced the rate of clinical
    relapses by 66% relative to placebo, the primary endpoint at one
    year. AFFIRM also met all one-year secondary endpoints,
    including MRI measures. In the TYSABRI treated group, 60% of
    patients developed no new or newly enlarging T2 hyperintense
    lesions compared to 22% of placebo treated patients. On the
    one-year MRI scan, 96% of TYSABRI treated patients had no
    gadolinium enhancing lesions compared to 68% of placebo treated
    patients. The proportion of patients who remained relapse free
    was 76% in the TYSABRI treated group compared to 53% in the
    placebo treated group. In February 2005, we and Elan announced
    that the AFFIRM study also achieved the two-year primary
    endpoint of slowing the progression of disability in patients
    with relapsing forms of MS. In the TYSABRI treated group, there
    was a 42% reduction in the risk of disability progression
    relative to placebo, and a 67% reduction in the rate of clinical
    relapses over two years relative to placebo which was sustained
    and consistent with the one-year results. Other efficacy data,
    including MRI measures, were similar to the one-year results.


 


    The SENTINEL study.  The one-year data from the
    SENTINEL combination study also showed that the study achieved
    its one-year primary endpoint. The addition of TYSABRI to AVONEX
    resulted in a 54% reduction in the rate of clinical relapses
    over the effect of AVONEX alone. SENTINEL also met all secondary
    endpoints, including MRI measures. In the group treated with
    TYSABRI plus AVONEX, 67% of the patients developed no new or
    newly enlarging T2 hyperintense lesions compared to 40% in the
    AVONEX plus placebo group. On the one-year MRI scan, 96% of
    TYSABRI plus AVONEX treated patients had no gadolinium enhancing
    lesions compared to 76% of AVONEX plus placebo treated patients.
    The proportion of patients who remained relapse free was 67% in
    the TYSABRI plus AVONEX treated group compared to 46% in the
    AVONEX plus placebo treated group. In the TYSABRI treated group,
    60% of patients developed no new or newly enlarging T2
    hyperintense lesions compared to 22% of placebo treated
    patients. On the one-year MRI scan, 96% of TYSABRI treated
    patients had no gadolinium enhancing lesions compared to 68% of
    placebo treated patients. In July 2005, we and Elan announced
    that the SENTINEL study also achieved the two-year primary
    endpoint of slowing the progression of disability in patients
    with relapsing forms of MS. The addition of TYSABRI to AVONEX
    resulted in a 24% reduction in the risk of disability
    progression compared to the effect of AVONEX alone, and a 56%
    reduction in the rate of clinical relapses over two years
    compared to that provided by AVONEX alone. Other efficacy data,
    including MRI measures, were similar to the one-year results.


 


    Phase 3 Studies of TYSABRI in Crohn’s
    Disease.  We, along with Elan, have completed
    three Phase 3 studies of TYSABRI in Crohn’s disease.
    The three completed Phase 3 studies are known as ENACT-2
    (Evaluation of Natalizumab as Continuous Therapy-2), ENACT-1
    (Evaluation of Natalizumab as Continuous Therapy-1), and ENCORE
    (Efficacy of Natalizumab for Chron’s Disease Response and
    Remission).


 


    ENACT-1/ENACT-2.  In ENACT-2, 339 patients
    who were responders in ENACT-1, the Phase 3 induction
    study, were re-randomized to one of two treatment groups,
    TYSABRI or placebo, both administered monthly for a total of
    12 months. In ENACT-1, the primary endpoint of
    “response,” as defined by a 70-point decrease in the
    Crohn’s Disease Activity Index, or CDAI, at week 10,
    was not met. In ENACT-2, the primary endpoint, which was met,
    was maintenance of response through six additional months of
    therapy. A loss of response was defined as a greater than 70
    point increase in CDAI score and a total CDAI score above 220 or
    any rescue intervention. Through month six, there was a
    significant treatment difference of greater than 30% in favor of
    patients taking TYSABRI compared to those taking placebo.
    Twelve-month data from ENACT-2 showed a sustained and clinically
    significant response throughout twelve months of extended
    TYSABRI infusion therapy, confirming findings in patients who
    had previously shown a sustained response throughout six months.
    Maintenance of response was defined by a CDAI score of less than
    220, and less than 70-point increase from baseline, in the
    absence of rescue intervention throughout the study. Response
    was maintained by 54% of patients treated with natalizumab
    compared to 20% of those treated with placebo. In addition, 39%
    of patients on TYSABRI maintained clinical remission during the
    study period, versus 15% of those on placebo. By the end of
    month twelve, 49% of patients treated with TYSABRI



    
    9



Table of Contents




    who had previously been treated with corticosteroids were able
    to withdraw from steroid therapy compared to 20% of
    placebo-treated patients.


 


    The ENCORE study.  In June 2005, we and Elan
    announced that ENCORE, the second Phase 3 induction trial
    of TYSABRI for the treatment of moderately to severely active
    Crohn’s disease in patients with evidence of active
    inflammation, met the primary endpoint of clinical response as
    defined by a 70-point decrease in baseline CDAI score at both
    weeks 8 and 12. The study also met all of its secondary
    endpoints, including clinical remission at both weeks 8 and 12.
    Clinical remission was defined as achieving a CDAI score of
    equal to or less than 150 at weeks 8 and 12. At the time of the
    TYSABRI suspension, all ENCORE study patients had completed
    dosing based on the study protocol and collection of data and
    analysis followed.


 



    ZEVALIN


 


    The ZEVALIN therapeutic regimen, which features ZEVALIN, is a
    radioimmunotherapy that is approved for the treatment of
    patients with relapsed or refractory low-grade, follicular, or
    transformed B-cell NHL, including patients with RITUXAN relapsed
    or refractory non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. In 2005, sales of
    ZEVALIN in the U.S. generated revenues of
    $19.4 million as compared to revenues of $18.7 million
    in 2004. ZEVALIN is approved in the EU for the treatment of
    adult patients with CD20¡ follicular B-cell NHL who are
    refractory to or have relapsed following RITUXAN therapy. We
    sell ZEVALIN to Schering AG for distribution in the EU, and
    receive royalty revenues from Schering AG on sales of ZEVALIN in
    the EU. Rest of world product sales for ZEVALIN in 2005 were
    $1.4 million as compared to $4.3 million in 2004. The
    $4.3 million rest of world product sales in 2004 relates to
    ZEVALIN sold to Schering AG in 2003 and 2004, recognition of
    which had been deferred.


 


    Radiation therapy plays an important role in the management of
    B-cell lymphomas due to the sensitivity of
    B-cell
    tumors to radiation. Traditional radiation therapy consists of
    an external beam of radiation focused on isolated areas of the
    body or areas with high tumor burden. The ZEVALIN therapeutic
    regimen combines a monoclonal antibody with a radioisotope.
    Following intravenous infusion, the monoclonal antibody
    recognizes and attaches to the CD20 antigen. This allows ZEVALIN
    to specifically target B-cells, destroying the malignant NHL
    B-cells and also normal B-cells.


 


    ZEVALIN therapy consists of two kits: an imaging kit for
    use with indium-111 and a therapeutic kit for use with
    yttrium-90. The ZEVALIN therapeutic regimen can be completed on
    an outpatient basis in approximately seven to nine days and
    includes:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    administration of one dose of RITUXAN to deplete peripheral
    blood B cells and improve ZEVALIN biodistribution;



 


     
        • 

    
    imaging with the ZEVALIN imaging kit using indium-111, followed
    by gamma camera images at 48 to 72 hours, and optional
    images at other points in time, if desired by the physician, to
    confirm biodistribution of ZEVALIN;



 


     
        • 

    
    if acceptable biodistribution of ZEVALIN is demonstrated,
    another dose of RITUXAN is administered; and



 


     
        • 

    
    infusion of the ZEVALIN therapeutic kit using yttrium-90.





 


    We are working with third party investigators to expand the
    quality and quantity of data available about ZEVALIN. ZEVALIN is
    being investigated in a variety of lymphoma subtypes including
    diffuse B cell lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma and follicular
    non-Hodgkins’ lymphoma. ZEVALIN is also being studied in a
    number of different treatment strategies including combinations
    with front-line and salvage chemotherapy regimens as part of
    autologous and allogeneic stem cell transplantation in both
    indolent and aggressive lymphoma subtypes and in combination
    with investigational agents.


 



    AMEVIVE


 


    AMEVIVE is approved in the U.S. and other countries for the
    treatment of adult patients with
    moderate-to-severe
    chronic plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy
    or phototherapy. In 2005, sales of AMEVIVE generated worldwide
    revenues of $48.5 million as compared to sales of
    $43.0 million in 2004. We are seeking to divest AMEVIVE as
    part of a comprehensive strategic plan, which we announced in
    September 2005.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    ANTI-CD80
    Antibody


 


    The CD80 antigen is expressed on the surface of follicular and
    other lymphoma cells. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we
    completed a Phase 2 study designed to evaluate the
    anti-CD80 antibody that we developed using our
    Primatized®
    antibody technology in patients with relapsed or refractory
    follicular lymphoma. The antibody was well tolerated, with
    observation of clinical responses in patients treated with
    higher doses. Based on the results of the Phase 2 study, we
    intend to initiate a Phase 3 study of the antibody in
    relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma in the second half of
    2006.


 



    BG-12/(PANACLAR)


 


    BG-12 is an oral fumarate that is a second-generation fumarate
    derivative with an immunomodulatory mechanism of action, which
    we licensed from Fumapharm. A first-generation product is
    currently marketed by Fumapharm as
    FUMADERM®
    in Germany, where it is the most prescribed oral systemic
    treatment for severe psoriasis. Fumapharm has completed a small
    Phase 3 study of the second-generation product in psoriasis
    and is seeking approval in Germany based on the results of the
    Phase 3 study. Fumapharm is also conducting a safety
    extension study in psoriasis in the EU. PANACLAR is the
    trademark for BG-12 in Germany. We completed a Phase 2b
    clinical study of BG-12 in patients with relapsing-remitting MS
    in October 2005. In January 2006, we announced that this study
    had its achieved its primary endpoint. We will be discussing the
    results of such study with regulatory authorities to assess our
    next steps.


 



    Our Other
    Research and Development Programs


 


    In connection with the strategic plan that we announced in
    September 2005, we intend to commit significant additional
    capital to external research and development opportunities. We
    intend to focus our research and development efforts on finding
    novel therapeutics in areas of high unmet medical need. Our
    focus areas are in oncology, neurobiology and autoimmune
    disease. Below is a brief summary of some of our pre-clinical
    and early stage product candidates.


 



    Oncology


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an adenoviral vector encoding the human IFN-ß gene,
    designed to deliver high local concentrations of
    IFN-ß
    to tumors;



 


     
        • 

    
    an anti-lymphotoxin beta receptor monoclonal antibody, which has
    shown activity in inhibiting tumor growth in animal models;



 


     
        • 

    
    an anti-CD23 antibody using our
    Primatized®
    antibody technology;



 


     
        • 

    
    in collaboration with PDL, M200 (volociximab), a chimeric
    monoclonal antibody directed against alpha5 beta1 integrin,
    shown to inhibit the formation of new blood vessels necessary
    for tumor growth. Volociximab is being tested in renal cell
    carcinoma, melanoma, and pancreatic and non-small cell lung
    cancers;



 


     
        • 

    
    a maytansinoid-conjugated monoclonal antibody directed against
    CRIPTO, a novel cell surface signaling molecule that is
    over-expressed in solid tumors; and



 


     
        • 

    
    in collaboration with Genentech, an anti-BR3 monoclonal antibody
    with potential utility in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.





 



    Autoimmune
    and Inflammatory Diseases


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    in separate collaborations with Genentech, a new humanized
    anti-CD20 antibody targeting B-cell disorders for a broad range
    of indications, and a BR3 protein therapeutic as a potential
    treatment for disorders associated with abnormal B-lymphocyte
    activity;



 


     
        • 

    
    in collaboration with PDL,
    HuZAFtm
    (fontolizumab), a humanized antibody that binds to
    interferon-gamma, an important immunoregulatory cytokine with
    multiple activities, including up-regulation of MHC
    Class II molecule expression. Blocking interferon-gamma may
    be useful in treating a variety of autoimmune diseases;



 


     
        • 

    
    a soluble form of the lymphotoxin beta receptor, which targets
    RA and other autoimmune diseases;






    
    11



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a monoclonal antibody to the alpha-v beta-6 (avb6) integrin,
    which has shown in animal models its potential to delay and
    reverse progression of fibrotic diseases such as idiopathic
    pulmonary fibrosis;



 


     
        • 

    
    a bifunctional protein construct (GE2) comprised of two
    connected antibody fragments that mimics IgG and IgE
    crosslinking to inhibit mast cell, basophil, and B cell
    activation, expected to be efficacious in treatment of allergy
    and asthma; and



 


     
        • 

    
    in collaboration with UCB Celltech, a pegylated anti-CD40 ligand
    antibody, for use in lupus.





 



    Neurobiology


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    in collaboration with Vernalis plc, BIIB014, formerly V2006, the
    lead compound in Vernalis’ adenosine A2A receptor
    antagonist program, which targets Parkinson’s disease and
    other central nervous system disorders;



 


     
        • 

    
    in collaboration with PDL, daclizumab, a humanized monoclonal
    antibody that binds to the IL-2 receptor on activated T cells,
    inhibiting the binding of IL-2 and the cascade of
    pro-inflammatory events contributing to organ transplant
    rejection and autoimmune and related diseases. A Phase 2
    trial of daclizumab in MS is ongoing, and rights to daclizumab
    in transplantation, asthma and related respiratory diseases have
    been licensed by PDL to Roche;



 


     
        • 

    
    neublastin, a protein therapeutic that appears to maintain the
    viability and physiology of peripheral sensory neurons.
    Neublastin has shown activity in animal models of neuropathic
    pain; and



 


     
        • 

    
    a pegylated version of human interferon beta for use in MS.





 



    Research
    and Development Costs


 


    For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, our
    research and development costs were approximately
    $747.7 million, $685.9 million and
    $233.3 million, respectively. Research and development
    costs in 2003 include the results of operations of Biogen, Inc.
    only for the period from November 13, 2003, the day after
    the effective date of the merger, through December 31, 2003.


 



    Principal
    Licensed Products


 


    As described above, we receive royalties on sales of RITUXAN
    outside the U.S. as part of our collaboration with
    Genentech and royalties on sales of ZEVALIN in the EU from
    Schering AG. We also receive royalties from sales by our
    licensees of a number of other products covered under patents
    that we control. For example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We receive royalties from Schering-Plough Corporation, or
    Schering-Plough, on sales of its alpha interferon products in
    the U.S. and Italy under an exclusive license to our alpha
    interferon patents and patent applications. Schering-Plough
    sells its
    INTRON®
    A (interferon alfa-2b) brand of alpha interferon in the
    U.S. for a number of indications, including the treatment
    of chronic hepatitis B and hepatitis C. Schering-Plough
    also sells other alpha interferon products for the treatment of
    hepatitis C, including
    REBETRON®
    Combination Therapy containing INTRON A and
    REBETOL®
    (ribavirin, USP),
    PEG-INTRON®
    (peginterferon alfa-2b), a pegylated form of alpha interferon,
    and PEG-INTRON in combination with REBETOL. See “Patents
    and Other Proprietary Rights — Recombinant Alpha
    Interferon.”



 


     
        • 

    
    We hold several important patents related to hepatitis B
    antigens produced by genetic engineering techniques. See
    “Patents and Other Proprietary
    Rights — Recombinant Hepatitis B Antigens.”
    These antigens are used in recombinant hepatitis B vaccines and
    in diagnostic test kits used to detect hepatitis B infection. We
    receive royalties from sales of hepatitis B vaccines in several
    countries, including the U.S., from GlaxoSmithKline plc, or
    GlaxoSmithKline, and Merck and Co. Inc., or Merck. We have also
    licensed our proprietary hepatitis B rights, on an
    antigen-by-antigen
    and nonexclusive basis, to several diagnostic kit manufacturers,
    including Abbott Laboratories, the major worldwide marketer of
    hepatitis B diagnostic kits. For a discussion of the length of
    the royalty obligation of GlaxoSmithKline and Merck on sales of
    hepatitis B vaccines and the obligation of our other licensees
    on sales of hepatitis B-related diagnostic products, see
    “Patents and Other Proprietary
    Rights — Recombinant Hepatitis B Antigens.”



 


     
        • 

    
    We also receive ongoing royalties on sales of
    ANGIOMAX®
    (bivalirudin) by The Medicines Company, or TMC. TMC sells
    ANGIOMAX in the U.S., Europe, Canada and Latin America for use
    as an anticoagulant in combination with aspirin in patients with
    unstable angina undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary
    angioplasty.






    
    12



Table of Contents



 



    Patents
    and Other Proprietary Rights


 


    We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and
    various other countries seeking protection of inventions
    originating from our research and development, including a
    number of our processes and products. Patents have been issued
    on many of these applications. We have also obtained rights to
    various patents and patent applications under licenses with
    third parties, which provide for the payment of royalties by us.
    The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded
    to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the
    U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and is
    dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the
    patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. There
    is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if
    obtained, will afford us substantial protection or commercial
    benefit. Similarly, there is no assurance that our pending
    patent applications or patent applications licensed from third
    parties will ultimately be granted as patents or that those
    patents that have been issued or are issued in the future will
    prevail if they are challenged in court.


 


    A substantial number of patents have already been issued to
    other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. Competitors
    may have filed applications for, or have been issued patents and
    may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that may
    relate to products or processes competitive with or similar to
    our products and processes. Moreover, the patent laws of the
    U.S. and foreign countries are distinct and decisions as to
    patenting, validity of patents and infringement of patents may
    be resolved differently in different countries. In general, we
    try to obtain licenses to third party patents, which we deem
    necessary or desirable for the manufacture, use and sale of our
    products. We are currently unable to assess the extent to which
    we may wish to or may be required to acquire rights under such
    patents and the availability and cost of acquiring such rights,
    or whether a license to such patents will be available on
    acceptable terms or at all. There may be patents in the
    U.S. or in foreign countries or patents issued in the
    future that are unavailable to license on acceptable terms. Our
    inability to obtain such licenses may hinder our ability to
    market our products.


 


    We are aware that others, including various universities and
    companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent
    applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and in
    other countries claiming subject matter potentially useful to
    our business. Some of those patents and patent applications
    claim only specific products or methods of making such products,
    while others claim more general processes or techniques useful
    or now used in the biotechnology industry. There is considerable
    uncertainty within the biotechnology industry about the
    validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the
    U.S. and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, there is no
    consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in
    biotechnology patents. We cannot currently determine the
    ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to
    third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted
    to be infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products.


 


    There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be,
    significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and
    other intellectual property rights. We expect that litigation
    may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and
    scope of certain of our proprietary rights. Conversely,
    litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the
    validity, scope
    and/or
    noninfringement of certain patent rights claimed by third
    parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our
    products. Intellectual property litigation could therefore
    create business uncertainty and consume substantial financial
    and human resources. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation
    could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or
    other proprietary rights, or, conversely, hinder our ability to
    market our products. See
    “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings” for a
    description of our patent litigation.


 


    Our trademarks RITUXAN, AVONEX, AMEVIVE and ZEVALIN are
    important to us and are generally covered by trademark
    applications or registrations owned or controlled by us in the
    U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries.


 



    Recombinant
    Beta Interferon


 


    Third parties have pending patent applications or issued patents
    in the U.S., Europe and other countries with claims to key
    intermediates in the production of beta interferon. These are
    known as the Taniguchi patents. Third parties also have pending
    patent applications or issued patents with claims to beta
    interferon itself. These are known as the Roche patents and the
    Rentschler patents, respectively. We have obtained non-exclusive
    rights in various countries of the world, including the U.S.,
    Japan and Europe, to manufacture, use and sell AVONEX, our brand
    of recombinant beta interferon, under the Taniguchi, Roche and
    Rentschler issued patents. The last of the Taniguchi



    
    13



Table of Contents




    patents expire in the U.S. in May 2013 and have expired
    already in other countries of the world. The Roche patents
    expire in the U.S. in May 2008 and also have generally
    expired elsewhere in the world. The Rentschler EU patent expires
    in July 2012.


 



    RITUXAN,
    ZEVALIN and Anti-CD20 Antibodies


 


    We have several issued U.S. patents and U.S. patent
    applications, and numerous corresponding foreign counterparts
    directed to anti-CD20 antibody technology, including RITUXAN and
    ZEVALIN. We have also been granted patents covering RITUXAN and
    ZEVALIN by the European and Japanese Patent Offices. In the
    U.S. our principal patents covering the drugs or their uses
    expire between 2015 and 2018. With regard to the rest of the
    world, our principal patents covering the drug products expire
    in 2013 subject to potential patent term extensions in countries
    where such extensions are available. In addition Genentech, our
    collaborative partner for RITUXAN, has secured an exclusive
    license to five U.S. patents and counterpart U.S. and
    foreign patent applications assigned to Xoma Corporation that
    relate to chimeric antibodies against the CD20 antigen. These
    patents expire between 2006 and 2014. Genentech has granted us a
    non-exclusive sublicense to make, have made, use and sell
    RITUXAN under these patents and patent applications. We, along
    with Genentech, share the cost of any royalties due to Xoma in
    the Genentech/Biogen Idec copromotion territory on sales of
    RITUXAN.


 



    AMEVIVE


 


    AMEVIVE is presently claimed in a number of patents granted in
    the U.S. and the EU, which cover LFA-3 polypeptides and DNA,
    LFA-3 fusion proteins and DNA, host cells, manufacturing methods
    and pharmaceutical compositions. We have obtained composition of
    matter patent coverage for the commercial product and important
    intermediates in the manufacturing process. Our patent portfolio
    also includes patents granted in the U.S. and the EU, which
    cover the use of LFA-3 polypeptides and LFA-3 fusion proteins in
    methods to inhibit T cell responses and use of LFA-3
    polypeptides and fusion proteins to treat skin diseases,
    specifically including psoriasis. Our patent portfolio further
    includes pending patent applications, which seek coverage for
    the use of LFA-3 polypeptides and fusion proteins in the
    treatment of other indications of possible future interest as
    well for certain combination therapy treatments of potential
    interest and utility. Patents issued or which may be issued on
    these various patent applications expire between 2007 (for
    patents relating to manufacturing intermediates) and 2021 (in
    the case of recently filed patent applications). Our principal
    patents covering the drug product expire in 2013 subject to
    potential patent term extensions in countries where such
    extensions are available and by supplemental protection
    certificates in countries of the EU where such certificates may
    be obtained if and when approval of the product in the EU is
    obtained. Method of use patent protection for the product to
    treat skin diseases, including psoriasis, extends until 2017 in
    the U.S. and generally until 2015 in the rest of the world.


 



    Recombinant
    Alpha Interferon


 


    In 1979, we granted an exclusive worldwide license to
    Schering-Plough under our alpha interferon patents. Most of our
    alpha interferon patents have since expired, including
    expiration of patents in the U.S., Japan and all countries of
    Europe other than Italy. We have obtained a supplementary
    protection certificate in Italy extending the coverage until
    2007, although the Italian Legislature has implemented
    legislation that may shorten this period to December 31,
    2005. We have appealed the decision of the Italian Patent &
    Trademark Office to recalculate the duration of this
    supplementary protection certificate. We are awaiting the
    decision of the Italian Patent Board of Appears. Schering-Plough
    pays us royalty payments on U.S. sales of alpha interferon
    products under an interference settlement entered into in 1998.
    Under the terms of the interference settlement, Schering-Plough
    agreed to pay us royalties under certain patents to be issued to
    Roche and Genentech in consideration of our assignment to
    Schering-Plough of the alpha interferon patent application that
    had been the subject of a settled interference with respect to a
    Roche/Genentech patent. Schering-Plough entered into an
    agreement with Roche as part of settlement of the interference.
    The first of the Roche/Genentech patents was issued on
    November 19, 2002 and has a seventeen-year term.


 



    Recombinant
    Hepatitis B Antigens


 


    We have obtained numerous patents in countries around the world,
    including in the U.S. and in European countries, covering the
    recombinant production of hepatitis B surface, core and
    “e” antigens. We have licensed our recombinant
    hepatitis B antigen patent rights to manufacturers and marketers
    of hepatitis B vaccines and diagnostic



    
    14



Table of Contents




    test kits, and receive royalties on sales of the vaccines and
    test kits by our licensees. See “Principal Licensed
    Products.” The obligation of GlaxoSmithKline and Merck to
    pay royalties on sales of hepatitis B vaccines and the
    obligation of our other licensees under our hepatitis B patents
    to pay royalties on sales of diagnostic products will terminate
    upon expiration of our hepatitis B patents in each licensed
    country. Following the conclusion of a successful interference
    proceeding in the U.S., we were granted patents in the
    U.S. expiring in 2018. These patents claim hepatitis B
    virus polypeptides and vaccines and diagnostics containing such
    polypeptides. Our European hepatitis B patents expired at the
    end of 1999, except in those countries in which we have obtained
    supplementary protection certificates. Coverage under
    supplementary protection certificates still exists in France,
    Italy and Sweden. The additional coverage afforded by the
    supplementary protection certificates ranges from one to five
    years. See “Item 3 — Legal
    Proceedings” for a description of our litigation with
    Classen Immunotherapies, Inc.


 



    TYSABRI


 


    We are developing TYSABRI with Elan. TYSABRI is presently
    claimed in a number of pending patent applications and issued
    patents held by both companies in the U.S. and abroad. These
    patent applications and patents cover the protein, DNA encoding
    the protein, manufacturing methods and pharmaceutical
    compositions, as well as various methods of treatment using the
    product. In the U.S. the principal patents covering the
    product and methods of manufacturing the product generally
    expire between 2014 and 2020, subject to any available patent
    term extensions. In the remainder of the world patents on the
    product and methods of manufacturing the product generally
    expire between 2014 and 2016, subject to any supplemental
    protection certificates that may be obtained. Both companies
    have method of treatment patents for a variety of indications
    including the treatment of MS and Crohn’s disease and
    treatments of inflammation. These patents expire in the
    U.S. generally between 2012 and 2020 and outside the
    U.S. generally between 2012 and 2016, subject to any
    available patent term extensions
    and/or
    supplemental protection certificates extending such terms.


 



    Trade
    Secrets and Confidential Know-How


 


    We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets, and we cannot assure
    that others will not independently develop substantially
    equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise
    gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or
    that we can meaningfully protect such rights. We require our
    employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators,
    scientists whose research we sponsor and other advisers to
    execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of
    employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements
    provide that all confidential information developed or made
    known to the individual during the course of the
    individual’s relationship with us is to be kept
    confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in
    specific circumstances. In the case of our employees, the
    agreement provides that all inventions conceived by such
    employees shall be our exclusive property. These agreements may
    not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our
    trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of
    such information.


 



    Sales,
    Marketing and Distribution


 



    In
    General


 


    Our sales and marketing efforts are generally focused on
    specialist physicians in private practice or at major medical
    centers. We utilize common pharmaceutical company practices to
    market our products and to educate physicians, including sales
    representatives calling on individual physicians,
    advertisements, professional symposia, direct mail, selling
    initiatives, public relations and other methods. We provide
    certain customer service and other related programs for our
    products, such as disease and product-specific websites,
    insurance research services and order, delivery and fulfillment
    services. We have also established programs in the U.S., which
    provide qualified uninsured or underinsured patients with
    commercial products at no charge. Specifics concerning the
    sales, marketing and distribution of each of our commercialized
    products are as follows:


 



    AVONEX


 


    We continue to focus our marketing and sales activities on
    maximizing the potential of AVONEX in the U.S. and the EU in the
    face of increased competition. In the U.S., Canada, Australia
    and most of the major countries of the EU, we use our own sales
    forces and marketing groups to market and sell AVONEX. In these
    countries, we distribute AVONEX principally through wholesale
    distributors of pharmaceutical products, mail order specialty
    distributors or shipping service providers. In countries outside
    the U.S., Canada, Australia and the major countries



    
    15



Table of Contents




    of the EU, we sell AVONEX to distribution partners who are then
    responsible for most marketing and distribution activities.


 



    TYSABRI


 


    In February 2005, in consultation with the FDA, we and Elan
    voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial distribution
    of TYSABRI, and we informed physicians that they should suspend
    dosing of TYSABRI until further notification. In September 2005,
    we submitted an sBLA for TYSABRI to the FDA for the treatment of
    MS. In November 2005, we were granted Priority Review status for
    the sBLA, which will result in action by the FDA approximately
    six months from the submission date, which is in March 2006. In
    January 2006, we and Elan announced that we had received
    notification from the FDA that the Peripheral and Central
    Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee would review TYSABRI for
    the treatment of MS on March 7, 2006. See “Our
    Products  —  Approved Indications and
    Ongoing Development — TYSABRI.” Prior to the
    suspension, we used our own sales force and marketing group to
    market TYSABRI in the U.S., and Elan distributed TYSABRI in the
    U.S. If we are able to re-launch TYSABRI in MS, we will
    again use our own sales force and marketing group to market
    TYSABRI in the U.S., and Elan will distribute TYSABRI in the
    U.S. If TYSABRI is approved to treat MS in the EU, we will
    use our own sales force and marketing group to market TYSABRI in
    the EU, and we will also distribute TYSABRI in the EU.


 



    RITUXAN
    AND ZEVALIN


 


    RITUXAN.  We market and sell RITUXAN in the
    U.S. in collaboration with Genentech. We, along with
    Genentech, have sales and marketing staffs dedicated to RITUXAN.
    Sales efforts for RITUXAN as a treatment for B-cell NHLs are
    focused on hematologists and medical oncologists in private
    practice, at community hospitals and at major medical centers in
    the U.S. Sales efforts for RITUXAN as a treatment for RA
    will be focused on rheumatologists in private practice, at
    community hospitals and at major medical centers in the U.S.


 


    RITUXAN and ZEVALIN are complementary products for the
    management of B-cell NHLs. Most B-cell NHLs are treated today in
    community-based group oncology practices. RITUXAN fits well into
    the community practice, as generally no special equipment,
    training or licensing is required for its administration or for
    management of treatment-related side effects. To date ZEVALIN
    has been primarily administered by nuclear medicine specialists
    or radiation oncologists at medical or cancer centers that are
    licensed and equipped for the handling, administration and
    disposal of radioisotopes. We intend to educate community-based
    group oncology practices in the administration of ZEVALIN.


 


    RITUXAN is generally sold to wholesalers and specialty
    distributors and directly to hospital pharmacies. We rely on
    Genentech to supply marketing support services for RITUXAN
    including customer service, order entry, shipping, billing,
    insurance verification assistance, managed care sales support,
    medical information and sales training. Under our agreement with
    Genentech, all U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by
    Genentech and we record our share of the pretax copromotion
    profits on a quarterly basis.


 


    ZEVALIN.  We use our own sales force and
    marketing group to market and sell ZEVALIN in the U.S. We
    generally focus our sales and marketing activities on educating
    physicians about ZEVALIN’s efficacy in relapsed indolent
    lymphoma, its safety profile and patient tolerance. In the U.S.,
    we sell ZEVALIN to radiopharmacies that radiolabel, or combine,
    the ZEVALIN antibody with an indium-111 isotope or an yttrium-90
    radioisotope and then distribute the finished product to
    hospitals or licensed treatment facilities for administration.
    In the EU, we sell ZEVALIN to Schering AG, our exclusive
    licensee for ZEVALIN outside the U.S. Schering AG is
    responsible for sales, marketing and distribution activities for
    ZEVALIN in the EU. We have appointed MDS (Canada) Inc., or MDS
    (Canada), as our exclusive supplier of the yttrium-90
    radioisotope required for therapeutic use of ZEVALIN to
    radiopharmacies. MDS (Canada) is the only supplier of the
    yttrium-90 radioisotope that is approved by the FDA.
    Radiopharmacies independently obtain the indium-111 isotope
    required for the imaging use of ZEVALIN from one of the two
    third party suppliers currently approved by the FDA to supply
    the indium-111 isotope.


 



    AMEVIVE


 


    We use our own sales force and marketing group to market and
    sell AMEVIVE in the U.S. We distribute AMEVIVE in the
    U.S. principally through specialty distributors.



    
    16



Table of Contents



 



    Competition


 



    In
    General


 


    Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries
    is intense and comes from many and varied sources. We do not
    believe that any of the industry leaders can be considered
    dominant in view of the rapid technological change in the
    industry. We experience significant competition from specialized
    biotechnology firms in the U.S., the EU and elsewhere and from
    many large pharmaceutical, chemical and other companies. Certain
    of these companies have substantially greater financial,
    marketing, research and development and human resources than us.
    Most large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have
    considerable experience in undertaking clinical trials and in
    obtaining regulatory approval to market pharmaceutical products.


 


    We believe that competition and leadership in the industry will
    be based on managerial and technological superiority and
    establishing proprietary positions through research and
    development. Leadership in the industry may also be influenced
    significantly by patents and other forms of protection of
    proprietary information. A key aspect of such competition is
    recruiting and retaining qualified scientists and technicians.
    We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled
    and experienced scientific personnel. The achievement of a
    leadership position also depends largely upon our ability to
    identify and exploit commercially the products resulting from
    research and the availability of adequate financial resources to
    fund facilities, equipment, personnel, clinical testing,
    manufacturing and marketing.


 


    Many of our competitors are working to develop products similar
    to those that we are developing. The timing of the entry of a
    new pharmaceutical product into the market can be an important
    factor in determining the product’s eventual success and
    profitability. Early entry may have important advantages in
    gaining product acceptance and market share. Moreover, under the
    Orphan Drug Act, the FDA is prevented for a period of seven
    years from approving more than one application for the
    “same” product for the same indication in certain
    diseases with limited patient populations, unless a later
    product is considered clinically superior. The EU has similar
    laws and other jurisdictions have or are considering such laws.
    Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop
    products, complete the testing and approval process and supply
    commercial quantities of the product to the market will have an
    important impact on our competitive position. An abbreviated
    process exists for approval of small molecule drugs in the
    U.S. that are comparable to existing products. It is
    possible that legislative bodies in the U.S. and the EU may
    provide a similar abbreviated process for comparable biologic
    products. Competition among products approved for sale may be
    based, among other things, on patent position, product efficacy,
    safety, convenience, reliability, availability and price.


 



    AVONEX
    AND TYSABRI


 


    AVONEX, which generated $1.5 billion of worldwide revenues
    in 2005, competes primarily with three other products:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    REBIF, which is co-promoted by Serono, Inc. and Pfizer in the
    U.S. and sold by Serono AG in the EU. REBIF generated worldwide
    revenues of approximately $1.3 billion in 2005.



 


     
        • 

    
    BETASERON, sold by Berlex in the U.S. and sold under the name
    BETAFERON®
    by Schering AG in the EU. BETASERON and BETAFERON together
    generated worldwide revenues of approximately $1.1 billion
    in 2005.



 


     
        • 

    
    COPAXONE, sold by Teva Neuroscience, Inc., or Teva, in the U.S.
    and co-promoted by Teva and Aventis Pharma in the EU. COPAXONE
    generated worldwide revenues of approximately $1.2 billion
    in 2005.





 


    Along with us, a number of companies are working to develop
    products to treat MS that may in the future compete with AVONEX.
    For example, we are developing TYSABRI with Elan. In February
    2005, in consultation with the FDA, we and Elan voluntarily
    suspended the marketing and commercial distribution of TYSABRI,
    and we informed physicians that they should suspend dosing of
    TYSABRI until further notification. In September 2005, we
    submitted an sBLA for TYSABRI to the FDA for the treatment of
    MS, which contained two-year data from the clinical trials as
    well as finding from the recent safety evaluation. In November
    2005, we were granted Priority Review status for the sBLA, which
    will result in action by the FDA approximately six months from
    the submission date, which is in March 2006. In January 2006, we
    and Elan announced that we had received notification from the
    FDA that the Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs
    Advisory Committee will review TYSABRI for the



    
    17



Table of Contents




    treatment of MS on March 7, 2006. See “Our
    Products — Approved Indications and Ongoing
    Development — TYSABRI.” If we are able to
    reintroduce TYSABRI to the market, it would compete with the
    products listed above, including AVONEX.


 


    AVONEX also faces competition from off-label uses of drugs
    approved for other indications. Some of our current competitors
    are also working to develop alternative formulations for
    delivery of their products, which may in the future compete with
    AVONEX.


 



    RITUXAN
    AND ZEVALIN — B-CELL NHLs


 


    RITUXAN is typically used after patients fail to respond or
    relapse after treatment with traditional radiation therapy or
    standard chemotherapy regimes, such as CVP and CHOP.  ZEVALIN is
    typically used after patients fail to respond or relapse
    following treatment with RITUXAN. ZEVALIN received designation
    as an Orphan Drug from the FDA for the treatment of relapsed or
    refractory low grade, follicular, or transformed B-cell NHLs,
    including patients with RITUXAN refractory follicular NHL.
    Marketing exclusivity resulting from this Orphan Drug
    designation will expire in February 2009. ZEVALIN competes with
    BEXXAR®
    (tositumomab, iodine I-131 tositumomab), a radiolabeled molecule
    developed by Corixa Corporation which is being developed and
    commercialized by GlaxoSmithKline. BEXXAR is approved to treat
    patients with CD20+, follicular, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma,
    with and without transformation, whose disease is refractory to
    RITUXAN and has relapsed following chemotherapy.


 


    A number of other companies, including us, are working to
    develop products to treat B-cell NHLs and other forms of
    non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma that may ultimately compete with
    RITUXAN and ZEVALIN.


 



    RITUXAN
    IN RA


 


    In February 2006, the FDA approved the sBLA for use of RITUXAN,
    in combination with methotrexate, for reducing signs and
    symptoms in adult patients with moderately-to-severely active RA
    who have had an inadequate response to one or more TNF
    antagonist therapies. RITUXAN will compete with several
    different types of therapies in the RA market, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    traditional therapies for RA, including disease-modifying
    anti-rheumatic drugs, such as steroids, methotrexate and
    cyclosporine, and pain relievers such as acetaminophen;



 


     
        • 

    
    anti-TNF therapies, such as
    REMICADE®
    (infliximab), a drug sold worldwide by Centocor, Inc., a
    subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson,
    HUMIRA®
    (adalimumab), a drug sold by Abbott Laboratories, and
    ENBREL®
    (etanercept), a drug sold by Amgen, Inc. and Wyeth
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc.;



 


     
        • 

    
    ORENCIA®
    (abatacept), a drug developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company,
    which was approved by the FDA to treat
    moderate-to-severe
    RA in December 2005;



 


     
        • 

    
    drugs in late-stage development for RA; and



 


     
        • 

    
    drugs approved for other indications that are used to treat RA.





 


    In addition, a number of other companies, including us, are
    working to develop products to treat RA that may ultimately
    compete with RITUXAN in the RA marketplace.


 



    Regulatory


 


    Our current and contemplated activities and the products and
    processes that will result from such activities are subject to
    substantial government regulation.


 


    Before new pharmaceutical products may be sold in the U.S. and
    other countries, clinical trials of the products must be
    conducted and the results submitted to appropriate regulatory
    agencies for approval. These clinical trial programs generally
    involve a three-phase process. Typically, in Phase 1,
    trials are conducted in volunteers or patients to determine the
    early side effect profile and, perhaps, the pattern of drug
    distribution and metabolism. In Phase 2, trials are
    conducted in groups of patients with a specific disease in order
    to determine appropriate dosages, expand evidence of the safety
    profile and, perhaps, determine preliminary efficacy. In
    Phase 3, large scale, comparative trials are conducted on
    patients with a target disease in order to generate enough data
    to provide the statistical proof of efficacy and safety required
    by national regulatory agencies. The results of the preclinical
    and clinical testing of a biologic product are then submitted to
    the FDA in the form of a Biologics License Application,



    
    18



Table of Contents




    or BLA, or a New Drug Approval Application, or NDA. In response
    to a BLA or NDA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request
    additional information or deny the application if it determines
    the application does not provide an adequate basis for approval.
    The receipt of regulatory approval often takes a number of
    years, involving the expenditure of substantial resources and
    depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the
    disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments
    and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. On
    occasion, regulatory authorities may require larger or
    additional studies, leading to unanticipated delay or expense.
    Even after initial FDA approval has been obtained, further
    clinical trials may be required to provide additional data on
    safety and effectiveness and are required to gain clearance for
    the use of a product as a treatment for indications other than
    those initially approved. The FDA may grant “accelerated
    approval” status to products that treat serious or
    life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful
    therapeutic benefits to patients over existing treatments. Under
    this pathway, the FDA may approve a biological product based on
    surrogate endpoints, or clinical endpoints other than survival
    or irreversible morbidity, or when the product is shown to be
    effective but safety can only be ensured by restricting use or
    distribution. It does not affect the timeframe for approval.
    Products approved under this pathway are required to satisfy
    additional commitments. When approval is based on surrogate
    endpoints, the sponsor will be required to conduct clinical
    studies to verify and describe clinical benefit. In addition,
    all products approved under accelerated approval must submit all
    copies of its promotional materials, including advertisements,
    to the FDA at least thirty (30) days prior to their initial
    dissemination. The FDA may also withdraw approval after a
    hearing if, for instance, post-marketing studies fail to verify
    any clinical benefit or it becomes clear that restrictions on
    the distribution of the product are inadequate to ensure its
    safe use. Approval of ZEVALIN was granted under the accelerated
    approval provisions. In addition, the sBLAs for RITUXAN in
    previously untreated patients with diffuse, large B-cell NHL in
    combination with CHOP or other anthracycline-based chemotherapy
    regimens and for use of RITUXAN, in combination with
    methotrexate, for reducing signs and symptoms in adult patients
    with moderately-to-severely active RA who have had an inadequate
    response to one or more TNF antagonist therapies were approved
    under the accelerated approval provisions. The sBLA for TYSABRI
    in MS is also being considered for approval under the
    accelerated approval provisions. We cannot be certain that the
    FDA will approve these products for the proposed indications. If
    the FDA approves the indications, the agency may require us to
    conduct additional post-marketing studies. If we fail to conduct
    the required studies or otherwise fail to comply with the
    conditions of accelerated approval, the FDA may take action to
    seek to withdraw that approval.


 


    Regulatory authorities track information on side effects and
    adverse events reported during clinical studies and after
    marketing approval. Non-compliance with FDA safety reporting
    requirements may result in FDA regulatory action that may
    include civil action or criminal penalties. Side effects or
    adverse events that are reported during clinical trials can
    delay, impede, or prevent marketing approval. Similarly, adverse
    events that are reported after marketing approval can result in
    additional limitations being placed on the product’s use
    and, potentially, withdrawal or suspension of the product from
    the market. For example, in February 2005, in consultation with
    the FDA, we and Elan voluntarily suspended the marketing and
    commercial distribution of TYSABRI, and informed physicians that
    they should suspend dosing of TYSABRI until further
    notification. In addition, we suspended dosing in clinical
    studies of TYSABRI in MS, Crohn’s disease and RA. These
    decisions were based on reports of two cases of PML, a rare and
    frequently fatal, demyelinating disease of the central nervous
    system, that occurred in patients treated with TYSABRI in
    clinical studies. See “Our
    Products — Approved Indications and Ongoing
    Development — TYSABRI.” Any adverse event,
    either before or after marketing approval, could result in
    product liability claims against us. For example, in July 2005,
    a complaint was filed against us and Elan by the estate and
    husband of Anita Smith, a patient from the TYSABRI Phase 3
    clinical study in combination with AVONEX, known as SENTINEL,
    who died after developing PML, a rare and frequently fatal,
    demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. See
    “Item 3 — Litigation” and the
    sections of “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors” entitled “Safety Issues with TYSABRI Could
    Significantly Affect our Growth” and “Failure to
    Prevail in Litigation or Satisfactorily Resolve a Third Party
    Investigation Could Harm Our Business.”


 


    If we seek to make certain changes to an approved product, such
    as adding a new indication, making certain manufacturing
    changes, or changing manufacturers or suppliers of certain
    ingredients or components, we will need FDA review and approval
    before the change can be implemented.


 


    Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug
    designation to drugs intended to treat a “rare disease or
    condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that
    affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. Orphan
    drug designation must be requested before submitting a BLA or
    NDA. After the FDA grants orphan



    
    19



Table of Contents




    drug designation, the generic identity of the therapeutic agent
    and its potential orphan use are publicly disclosed by the FDA.
    Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or
    shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval
    process. If a product which has an orphan drug designation
    subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication
    for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to
    orphan exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not approve any
    other applications to market the same drug for the same
    indication for a period of seven years following marketing
    approval, except in certain very limited circumstances,
    including a showing of clinical superiority. ZEVALIN received
    orphan drug exclusivity in the U.S., which will expire in
    February 2009.


 


    All of our marketed products, AVONEX, AMEVIVE, RITUXAN, ZEVALIN
    and TYSABRI (should it be allowed to return to the market by the
    FDA), are licensed under the Public Health Service Act as
    biological products. Currently, all biological products must
    submit full biologic license applications (BLAs) to the FDA and
    undergo rigorous review prior to approval. Unlike small molecule
    generic drugs subject to the generic drug provisions
    (Hatch-Waxman Act) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act,
    as described below, there currently is no process for the
    submission of applications based upon abbreviated data packages
    like those submitted to form the approval of a generic drug for
    follow-on biologics. We believe that the EU is currently in the
    process of developing regulatory requirements related to the
    development and approval of follow-on biologics. Until such
    requirements are finalized, we cannot predict when follow-on
    biologics will appear in the EU market. However, based on the
    process and timing outlined by the EMEA, we believe product
    specific guidelines are not likely to be finalized until 2006.
    The US government has also begun a process to determine the
    scientific and statutory basis upon which follow-on biologics
    could be marketed in the US. The FDA is engaged in an ongoing
    public dialogue regarding the appropriate scientific standards
    for these products. Key members of the U.S. Congress have
    announced their intention to propose statutory changes to allow
    for the approval of follow-on biologics but have not yet
    formally introduced legislation. We cannot be certain when
    Congress will pass such a law. We cannot predict what impact, if
    any, the approval of follow-on biologics will have on the sales
    of our products.


 


    We are developing small molecule products. If development is
    successful, these products may be approved as drugs under the
    Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Under the Drug Price
    Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also known
    as the Hatch-Waxman Act, Congress created an abbreviated FDA
    review process for generic versions of pioneer (brand name)
    small molecule drug products. The Hatch-Waxman Act created two
    pathways for abbreviated FDA review in the Federal Food, Drug,
    and Cosmetic Act. The first is the abbreviated new drug
    application (ANDA), a type of application in which approval is
    based on a showing of “sameness” to an already
    approved drug product. ANDAs do not need to contain full reports
    of safety and effectiveness, as do new drug applications (NDAs),
    but rather are required to demonstrate that their proposed
    products are “the same as” reference products with
    regard to their conditions of use, active ingredient(s), route
    of administration, dosage form, strength, and labeling. ANDA
    applicants are also required to demonstrate the
    “bioequivalence” of their products to the reference
    product. The second is a 505(b)(2) application, or an NDA for
    which one or more of the investigations relied upon by the
    applicant for approval was not conducted by or for the applicant
    and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of
    reference or use from the person by or for whom the
    investigation was conducted. The FDA has determined that
    505(b)(2) applications may be submitted for products that
    represent changes from approved products in conditions of use,
    active ingredient(s), route of administration, dosage form,
    strength, or bioavailability. A 505(b)(2) applicant must provide
    the FDA with any additional clinical data necessary to
    demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the product with the
    proposed change(s).


 


    In addition to providing for the abbreviated review process, the
    Hatch-Waxman Act also provides for the restoration of a portion
    of the patent term lost during small molecule product
    development. In addition, the statute establishes a complex set
    of processes for notifying sponsors of pioneer products of ANDA
    and 505(b)(2) applicants that may infringe patents and to permit
    sponsors of pioneer drugs an opportunity to pursue patent
    litigation prior to FDA approval of the generic product. The
    Hatch-Waxman Act also awards non-patent marketing exclusivities
    to qualifying pioneer drug products. For example, the first
    applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a product that does not
    contain an active ingredient found in any other approved product
    is awarded five years of “new chemical entity”
    marketing exclusivity. Where this exclusivity is awarded, the
    FDA is prohibited from accepting any ANDAs or 505(b)(2)
    applications during the five-year period. The Hatch-Waxman Act
    also provides three years of “new use” marketing
    exclusivity for the approval of NDAs, 505(b)(2) applications,
    and supplements, where those applications contain the results of
    new clinical investigations (other than bioavailability studies)
    essential to the FDA’s approval of the applications.
    Provided that the new clinical investigations are essential to
    the FDA’s approval of the change,



    
    20



Table of Contents




    this three-year exclusivity prohibits the final approval of
    ANDAs or 505(b)(2) applications for products with the specific
    changes associated with those clinical investigations.


 


    The FDA, the EMEA and other regulatory agencies regulate and
    inspect equipment, facilities, and processes used in the
    manufacturing of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to
    providing approval to market a product. If after receiving
    clearance from regulatory agencies, a material change is made in
    manufacturing equipment, location, or process, additional
    regulatory review and approval may be required. We also must
    adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and
    product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its
    facilities inspection program. The FDA, the EMEA and other
    regulatory agencies also conduct regular, periodic visits to
    re-inspect equipment, facilities, and processes following the
    initial approval. If, as a result of these inspections, it is
    determined that our equipment, facilities, or processes do not
    comply with applicable regulations and conditions of product
    approval, regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal, or
    administrative sanctions
    and/or
    remedies against us, including the suspension of our
    manufacturing operations. In addition, the FDA regulates all
    advertising and promotion activities for products under its
    jurisdiction both prior to and after approval. Companies must
    comply with all applicable FDA requirements. If they do not,
    they are subject to the full range of civil and criminal
    penalties available to the FDA.


 


    In the EU, Canada, and Australia, regulatory requirements and
    approval processes are similar in principle to those in the
    U.S. Depending on the type of drug for which approval is
    sought. There are currently two potential tracks for marketing
    approval in EU countries: mutual recognition and the centralized
    procedure. These review mechanisms may ultimately lead to
    approval in all EU countries, but each method grants all
    participating countries some decision-making authority in
    product approval.


 


    In the U.S., the federal government regularly considers
    reforming health care coverage and costs. For example, recent
    reforms to Medicare have reduced the reimbursement rates for
    many of our products. Effective January 1, 2005, Medicare
    pays physicians and suppliers that furnish our products under a
    new payment methodology using average sales price, or ASP,
    information. Manufacturers, including us, are required to
    provide ASP information to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
    Services on a quarterly basis. The manufacturer submitted
    information is used to compute Medicare payment rates, which are
    set at ASP plus 6 percent, updated quarterly. There is a
    mechanism for comparison of such payment rates to widely
    available market prices, which could cause further decreases in
    Medicare payment rates, although this mechanism has yet to be
    utilized. Effective January 1, 2006, Medicare began to use
    the same ASP plus 6 percent payment methodology to
    determine Medicare rates paid for products furnished by hospital
    outpatient departments. If a manufacturer is found to have made
    a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, the statute
    provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each
    misrepresentation and for each day in which the
    misrepresentation was applied.


 


    Another payment reform is the addition of an expanded
    prescription drug benefit for all Medicare beneficiaries known
    as Medicare Part D. This is a voluntary benefit that is
    being implemented through private plans under contractual
    arrangements with the federal government. Like pharmaceutical
    coverage through private health insurance, Part D plans
    establish formularies that govern the drugs and biologicals that
    will be offered and the
    out-of-pocket
    obligations for such products. In addition, plans are expected
    to negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers and pass on some
    of those savings to Medicare beneficiaries. Because this program
    has just commenced, it is difficult to predict its impact on our
    operations.


 


    Future legislation or regulatory actions implementing recent or
    future legislation may have a significant effect on our
    business. Our ability to successfully commercialize products may
    depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the
    costs of our products and related treatments will be available
    in the U.S. and worldwide from government health administration
    authorities, private health insurers and other organizations.
    Substantial uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of
    newly approved health care products by third party payors.


 


    We also participate in the Medicaid rebate program established
    by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, and under
    amendments of that law that became effective in 1993. Under the
    Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for each unit of
    product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for
    each product is set by law as a minimum 15.1% of the average
    manufacturer price, or AMP, of that product, or if it is
    greater, the difference between AMP and the best price available
    from us to any commercial or non-governmental customer. The
    rebate amount also includes an inflation adjustment if AMP
    increases faster than inflation. Pending federal legislation
    would revise the calculation of AMP in a way that may lead to an
    increase in rebate amounts effective in 2007. The



    
    21



Table of Contents




    rebate amount is recomputed each quarter based on our reports of
    current average manufacturer price and best price for each of
    our products to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
    The terms of our participation in the program impose an
    obligation to correct the prices reported in previous quarters,
    as may be necessary for up to three years. Any such corrections
    could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability
    for past quarters, depending on the direction of the correction.
    In addition to retroactive rebates, if we were found to have
    knowingly submitted false information to the government, in
    addition to other penalties available to the government, the
    statute provides for civil monetary penalties in the amount of
    $100,000 per item of false information. Participation in
    the Medicaid rebate program includes extending discounts under
    the Public Health Service, or PHS, pharmaceutical pricing
    program. The PHS pricing program extends discounts to a variety
    of community health clinics and other entities that receive
    health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that
    serve a disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries.


 


    We also make our products available for purchase by authorized
    users off of our Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, contract with
    the Department of Veterans Affairs. As a result of the Veterans
    Health Care Act of 1992, or the VHC Act, federal law requires
    that FSS contract prices for our products for purchases by the
    Veterans Administration, the Department of Defense, Coast Guard,
    and the PHS (including the Indian Health Service) be capped at
    “federal ceiling prices,” or FCPs. FCPs are computed
    by taking, at a minimum, a 24% reduction off the
    “non-federal average manufacturer price,” or non-FAMP.
    Our reported non-FAMPs and FCPs for our various products are
    used in establishing the FSS prices available to these
    government agencies. The accuracy of the reported non-FAMPs and
    FCPs may be audited by the government under applicable federal
    procurement laws. Among the remedies available to the government
    for infractions of these laws is recoupment of any overages paid
    by FSS users during the audited years. In addition, if we were
    found to have knowingly reported a false non-FAMP or FCP, the
    VHC Act provides for civil monetary penalties of
    $100,000 per item of false information. In the second
    quarter of 2005, we also began making quarterly rebate payments
    under a new Department of Defense TriCARE retail pharmacy
    program. Rebates are computed as the difference between
    applicable Non-FAMPs and FCPs.


 


    We are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining
    to health care “fraud and abuse,” including
    anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws
    make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit,
    offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to
    induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or
    prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the
    statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of
    regulations and very few court decisions addressing industry
    practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged
    under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit
    anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be
    presented for payment to third party payors (including Medicare
    and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are
    false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided
    as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or
    services. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of
    our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws.
    Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal
    and/or civil
    sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well
    as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care
    programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government
    were to allege or convict us of violating these laws, our
    business could be harmed. In addition, there is an ability for
    private individuals to bring similar actions. For a description
    of litigation in this area in which we are currently involved,
    see “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.”


 


    Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons
    discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the
    increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement
    authorities. Further, there are an increasing number of state
    laws that require manufacturers to make reports to states on
    pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain
    ambiguities as to what is required to comply with the laws.
    Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our
    reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of
    the pertinent state authorities.


 


    We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act which prohibits corporations and individuals from paying,
    offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value
    to any foreign government official, government staff member,
    political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain
    or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in
    an official capacity.


 


    We conduct relevant research at all of our research facilities
    in the U.S. in compliance with the current
    U.S. National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Research
    Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules, or the NIH



    
    22



Table of Contents




    Guidelines, and all other applicable federal and state
    regulations. By local ordinance, we are required to, among other
    things, comply with the NIH Guidelines in relation to our
    facilities in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and San Diego,
    California, and are required to operate pursuant to certain
    permits.


 


    Our present and future business has been and will continue to be
    subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws,
    regulations and recommendations relating to safe working
    conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of
    animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import and export
    and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous
    substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious
    disease agents, used in connection with our research work are or
    may be applicable to our activities. Certain agreements entered
    into by us involving exclusive license rights may be subject to
    national or supranational antitrust regulatory control, the
    effect of which also cannot be predicted. The extent of
    government regulation, which might result from future
    legislation or administrative action, cannot accurately be
    predicted.


 



    Manufacturing
    and Raw Materials


 


    We currently produce all of our bulk AVONEX, AMEVIVE and TYSABRI
    at our manufacturing facilities located in Research Triangle
    Park, North Carolina and Cambridge, Massachusetts. We
    manufacture the commercial requirements of the antibody for
    ZEVALIN at our manufacturing facilities in Cambridge,
    Massachusetts. Genentech is responsible for all worldwide
    manufacturing activities for bulk RITUXAN and has sourced the
    manufacturing of certain bulk RITUXAN requirements to an
    independent third party. We manufacture clinical products in
    Cambridge, Massachusetts.


 


    In June 2005, we sold our large-scale biologics manufacturing
    facility in Oceanside, California, known as “NIMO,” to
    Genentech along with approximately 60 acres of real
    property located in Oceanside, California upon which NIMO is
    located. In August 2004, we restarted construction of our
    large-scale biologic manufacturing facility in Hillerod, Denmark
    to be used to manufacture TYSABRI and other products in our
    pipeline. After our voluntary suspension of TYSABRI, we
    reconsidered our construction plans and determined that we would
    proceed with the bulk manufacturing component of the large-scale
    biologic manufacturing facility and add a labeling and packaging
    component to the project. We decided not to proceed with the
    fill-finish component of the large-scale biological
    manufacturing facility. See
    “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors — We are Subject to Risks Related to the
    Products That We Manufacture.”


 


    We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final
    product storage operations for our products, along with a
    substantial part of our packaging operations, to a concentrated
    group of third party contractors. Many of the raw materials and
    supplies required for the production of AVONEX, ZEVALIN, AMEVIVE
    and TYSABRI are available from various suppliers in quantities
    adequate to meet our needs. However, due to the unique nature of
    the production of our products, we do have several single source
    providers of raw materials. We make every effort to qualify new
    vendors and to develop contingency plans so that production is
    not impacted by short-term issues associated with single source
    providers. Each of our third party service providers, suppliers
    and manufacturers are subject to continuing inspection by the
    FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions. Any delay,
    interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture,
    fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our products, including as
    a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or
    operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency
    inspection, could significantly impair our ability to sell our
    products. See the sections of
    “Item 1A — Risk Factors” entitled
    “We are Subject to Risks Related to the Products That We
    Manufacture” and “We Rely to a Large Extent on Third
    Parties in the Manufacturing of Our Products.”


 


    We believe that our existing manufacturing facilities and
    outside sources will allow us to meet our near-term and
    long-term manufacturing needs for our current commercial
    products and our other products currently in clinical trials.
    Our existing licensed manufacturing facilities operate under
    multiple licenses from the FDA, regulatory authorities in the EU
    and other regulatory authorities. For a discussion of risks
    related to our ability to meet our manufacturing needs for our
    commercial products and our other products currently in clinical
    trials, see the sections of
    “Item 1A — Risk Factors” entitled
    “We are Subject to Risks Related to the Products That We
    Manufacture” and “We Rely to a Large Extent on Third
    Parties in the Manufacturing of Our Products.” Additional
    manufacturing facilities and outside sources may be required to
    meet our long-term research, development and commercial
    production needs.


 



    Our
    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2005, we had 3,340 employees.



    
    23



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    Executive Officers


 


    The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages as
    of February 7, 2006 and their principal positions.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    James C. Mullen
    



 




    47
    




 


    Chief Executive Officer and
    President
    





    Burt A. Adelman, M.D. 
    



 




    53
    




 


    Executive Vice President,
    Development
    





    Susan H. Alexander, Esq. 
    



 




    49
    




 


    Executive Vice President, General
    Counsel and Corporate Secretary
    





    John M. Dunn, Esq. 
    



 




    53
    




 


    Executive Vice President, New
    Ventures
    





    Robert A. Hamm
    



 




    54
    




 


    Senior Vice President, Immunology
    Business Unit
    





    Faheem Hasnain
    



 




    47
    




 


    Senior Vice President, Oncology
    Strategic Business Unit
    





    Peter N. Kellogg
    



 




    49
    




 


    Executive Vice President, Finance
    and Chief Financial Officer
    





    Michael D.
    Kowolenko, Ph.D. 
    



 




    50
    




 


    Senior Vice President,
    Pharmaceutical Operations and Technology
    





    Connie L. Matsui
    



 




    52
    




 


    Executive Vice President,
    Corporate Strategy and Communication
    





    Craig Eric
    Schneier, Ph.D. 
    



 




    58
    




 


    Executive Vice President, Human
    Resources
    





    Mark C. Wiggins
    



 




    50
    




 


    Executive Vice President,
    Corporate and Business Development
    








 


    Reference to “our” or “us” in the following
    descriptions of the background of our executive officers include
    Biogen Idec and Idec Pharmaceuticals Corporation.


 


    James C. Mullen is our Chief Executive Officer and
    President and has served in these positions since the merger in
    November 2003. Mr. Mullen was formerly Chairman of the
    Board and Chief Executive Officer of Biogen, Inc. He was named
    Chairman of the Board of Directors of Biogen, Inc. in July 2002,
    after being named President and Chief Executive Officer of
    Biogen, Inc. in June 2000. Mr. Mullen joined Biogen, Inc.
    in 1989 as Director, Facilities and Engineering. He was named
    Biogen, Inc.’s Vice President, Operations, in 1992. From
    1996 to 1999, Mr. Mullen served as Vice President,
    International, with responsibility for building all Biogen, Inc.
    operations outside North America. From 1984 to 1988,
    Mr. Mullen held various positions at SmithKline Beckman
    Corporation (now GlaxoSmithKline plc). Mr. Mullen is also a
    director of PerkinElmer, Inc., serves as Chairman of the Board
    of Directors of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO)
    and is co-chair of Cambridge Family and Children’s Service
    Capital Campaign Steering Committee.


 


    Burt A. Adelman, M.D. is our Executive Vice
    President, Development and has served in that position since the
    merger in November 2003. Dr. Adelman was previously
    Executive Vice President, Research and Development at Biogen,
    Inc., a position he attained in October 2001. Prior to that, he
    served as Vice President of Medical Research from January 1999
    to October 2001 and Vice President of Development Operations
    from August 1996 to January 1999. He began his career with
    Biogen, Inc. in 1991, joining the company as Director of Medical
    Research, and has held positions of increasing responsibility
    including Vice President, Regulatory Affairs, and Vice
    President, Development Operations. In that role he oversaw the
    Preclinical Development, Medical Operations and Regulatory
    Affairs groups. Since 1992, Dr. Adelman has served as a
    lecturer at Harvard Medical School. He is a member of the Board
    of Directors for the New England Healthcare Institute and a New
    England Division Board of Directors member for the American
    Cancer Society.


 


    Susan H. Alexander is our Executive Vice President,
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and has served in these
    positions since January 2006. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander
    served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Corporate Secretary of PAREXEL International Corporation, since
    September 2003. From June 2001 to September 2003,
    Ms. Alexander served as General Counsel of IONA
    Technologies. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander served as
    Counsel at Cabot Corporation from January 1995 to May 2001.
    Prior to that, Ms. Alexander was a partner of the Boston
    law firms of Hinckley, Allen & Snyder and
    Fine & Ambrogne.



    
    24



Table of Contents




    John M. Dunn is our Executive Vice President, New
    Ventures and has served in that position since the merger in
    November 2003. Mr. Dunn was our Senior Vice President,
    Legal and Compliance, and General Counsel from January 2002 to
    November 2003. Prior to that, he was a partner at the law firm
    of Pillsbury Winthrop LLP specializing in corporate and business
    representation of public and private companies.


 


    Robert A. Hamm is our Senior Vice President, Immunology
    Business Unit and has served in that position since the merger
    in November 2003. From November 2002 to November 2003,
    Mr. Hamm served as Senior Vice President, Immunology
    Business Unit, of Biogen, Inc. Before that, he served as Senior
    Vice President —  Europe, Africa, Canada and
    Middle East from October 2001 to November 2002. Prior to that,
    Mr. Hamm served as Vice President — Sales
    and Marketing of Biogen, Inc. from October 2000 to October 2001.
    Mr. Hamm previously served as Vice
    President — Manufacturing from June 1999 to
    October 2000, Director, Northern Europe and Distributors from
    November 1996 until June 1999 and Associate Director, Logistics
    from April 1994 until November 1996. From 1987 until April 1994,
    Mr. Hamm held a variety of management positions at Syntex
    Laboratories Corporation, including Director of Operations and
    New Product Planning, and Manager of Materials, Logistics and
    Contract Manufacturing.


 


    Faheem Hasnain has served as our Senior Vice President,
    Oncology Strategic Business Unit since October 2004. Prior to
    that, Mr. Hasnain served as President, Oncology
    Therapeutics Network at Bristol-Myers Squibb from March 2002 to
    September 2004. From January 2001 to February 2002,
    Mr. Hasnain served as Vice President, Global eBusiness at
    GlaxoSmithKline and prior to 2000 served in key commercial and
    entrepreneurial roles within GlaxoSmithKline and its predecessor
    organizations, spanning global eBusiness, international
    commercial operations, sales and marketing.


 


    Peter N. Kellogg is our Executive Vice President, Finance
    and Chief Financial Officer and has served in that position
    since the merger in November 2003. Mr. Kellogg was formerly
    Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of
    Biogen, Inc. after serving as Vice
    President — Finance and Chief Financial Officer
    since July 2000. He joined Biogen, Inc. in 2000 from PepsiCo
    Inc., where he most recently served as Senior Vice President,
    PepsiCo
    E-Commerce
    from March to July 2000 and as Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer, Frito-Lay International, from March 1998 to
    March 2000. From 1987 to 1998, he served in a variety of senior
    financial, international and general management positions at
    PepsiCo and the Pepsi-Cola International, Pepsi-Cola North
    America, and Frito-Lay International divisions. Prior to joining
    PepsiCo, Mr. Kellogg was a senior consultant with Arthur
    Andersen & Co. and Booz Allen & Hamilton.


 


    Michael D. Kowolenko, Ph.D. is our Senior Vice
    President, Pharmaceutical Operations and Technology, and has
    served in that position since July 2004. Prior to that, he
    served as our Senior Vice President, Global Quality, from
    November 2003 to July 2004 and held a similar position with
    Biogen, Inc. from April 2002 until November 2003. Prior to
    joining Biogen, Inc., Dr. Kowolenko held several positions
    within Research, Development, and Operations at Bayer
    Corporation, including Vice President of Quality Assurance from
    January 2001 to April 2002.


 


    Connie L. Matsui is our Executive Vice President,
    Corporate Strategy and Communications and has served in that
    position since the merger in November 2003. Ms. Matsui was
    previously our Senior Vice President, Planning and Resource
    Development. She joined us in November 1992 as Senior Director,
    Planning and Resource Development with primary responsibility
    for strategic planning and human resources. In December 1994,
    Ms. Matsui was promoted to Vice President, Planning and
    Resource Development. In 2000 Ms. Matsui was promoted to
    Senior Vice President, overseeing investor relations, corporate
    communications, human resources, project management and
    strategic planning. From 1977 to 1991, she served in a variety
    of marketing and general management positions at Wells Fargo
    Bank, including Vice President and Manager responsible for
    Consumer Retirement Programs and Vice President and Manager in
    charge of company-wide Employee Relations and Communications.
    Ms. Matsui has been active on a number of
    not-for-profit
    boards and served as National President of the Girl Scouts of
    the USA from 1999 to 2002.



    
    25



Table of Contents




    Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D. is our Executive
    Vice President, Human Resources and has served in that position
    since the merger in November 2003. Dr. Schneier was
    previously Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Biogen,
    Inc., a position he has held since January 2003. He joined
    Biogen, Inc. in 2001 as Senior Vice President, Strategic
    Organization Design and Effectiveness, after having served as an
    external consultant to the company for eight years. Prior to
    joining Biogen, Inc., Dr. Schneier was president of his own
    management consulting firm in Princeton, NJ, where he provided
    consulting services to over 70 of the Fortune
    100 companies, as well as several of the largest European
    and Asian firms. Dr. Schneier held a tenured professorship
    at the University of Maryland’s Smith School of Business
    and has held teaching positions at the business schools of the
    University of Michigan, Columbia University, and at the Tuck
    School of Business, Dartmouth College.


 


    Mark C. Wiggins is our Executive Vice President,
    Corporate and Business Development and has served in that
    capacity since July 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Wiggins served
    as our Senior Vice President, Business Development from November
    2003 to July 2004, Vice President of Marketing and Business
    Development from November 2000 to November 2003, and Vice
    President of Business Development from May 1998 to November
    2000. From 1986 to 1996 he held various positions at
    Schering-Plough, including Director of Business Development and
    from 1996 to 1998 he was Vice President of Business Development
    and Marketing for Hybridon.



    
    26



Table of Contents



 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The SEC encourages public companies to disclose
    forward-looking information so that investors can better
    understand a company’s future prospects and make informed
    investment decisions. In addition to historical information,
    this report contains forward-looking statements that involve
    risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
    differ materially from those reflected in such forward-looking
    statements. Reference is made in particular to forward-looking
    statements regarding the anticipated level of future product
    sales, royalty revenues, expenses and profits, regulatory
    approvals, our long-term growth, our ability to continue
    development of TYSABRI and reintroduce TYSABRI into the market,
    the re-initiation of manufacturing of TYSABRI, the development
    and marketing of additional products, including RITUXAN in RA,
    the impact of competitive products, the anticipated outcome of
    pending or anticipated litigation and patent-related
    proceedings, the plans for our Denmark large-scale manufacturing
    facility, the substantial completion and licensing of our
    Denmark packaging and labeling facility, our ability to meet our
    manufacturing needs, the value of investments in certain
    marketable securities, and our plans to spend additional capital
    on external business development and research opportunities.
    These and all other forward-looking statements are made based on
    our current belief as to the outcome and timing of such future
    events. Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ
    from our expectations and which could negatively impact our
    financial condition and results of operations are discussed
    below and elsewhere in this report. Although we believe that the
    risks described below represent all material risks currently
    applicable to our business, additional risks and uncertainties
    not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to
    be significant to our business may also affect our actual
    results and could harm our business, financial condition and
    results of operations. Unless required by law, we do not
    undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking
    statements.


 



    Our
    Revenues Rely Significantly on a Limited Number of
    Products.


 


    Our current and future revenues depend substantially upon
    continued sales of our commercial products. Revenues related to
    sales of two of our products, AVONEX and RITUXAN, represented
    approximately 93% of our total revenues in 2005. We cannot
    assure you that AVONEX or RITUXAN will continue to be accepted
    in the U.S. or in any foreign markets or that sales of
    either of these products will not decline in the future. A
    number of factors may affect market acceptance of AVONEX,
    RITUXAN and our other products, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the perception of physicians and other members of the health
    care community of their safety and efficacy relative to that of
    competing products;



 


     
        • 

    
    patient and physician satisfaction with these products;



 


     
        • 

    
    the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and those
    of our marketing partners and licensees in the U.S., the EU and
    other foreign markets;



 


     
        • 

    
    the size of the markets for these products;



 


     
        • 

    
    unfavorable publicity concerning these products or similar drugs;



 


     
        • 

    
    the introduction, availability and acceptance of competing
    treatments;



 


     
        • 

    
    the availability and level of third party reimbursement;



 


     
        • 

    
    adverse event information relating to any of these products;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes to product labels to add significant warnings or
    restrictions on use;



 


     
        • 

    
    the success of ongoing development work on RITUXAN and new
    anti-CD20 product candidates;



 


     
        • 

    
    the continued accessibility of third parties to vial, label, and
    distribute these products on acceptable terms;



 


     
        • 

    
    the unfavorable outcome of patent litigation related to any of
    these products;



 


     
        • 

    
    the ability to manufacture commercial lots of these products
    successfully and on a timely basis; and



 


     
        • 

    
    regulatory developments related to the manufacture or continued
    use of these products.






    
    27



Table of Contents



 


    Any material adverse developments with respect to the
    commercialization of these products may cause our revenue to
    grow at a slower than expected rate, or even decrease, in the
    future. In addition, the successful development and
    commercialization of new
    anti-CD20
    product candidates in our collaboration with Genentech (which
    also includes RITUXAN) will adversely affect our participation
    in the operating profits from such collaboration (including as
    to RITUXAN) in such a manner that, although overall
    collaboration revenue might ultimately increase as the result of
    the successful development and commercialization of any such
    product candidate, our share of the operating profits will
    decrease.


 



    Safety
    Issues with TYSABRI Could Significantly Affect our
    Growth.


 


    TYSABRI was approved by the FDA in November 2004 to treat
    relapsing forms of MS to reduce the frequency of clinical
    relapses. In February 2005, in consultation with the FDA, we and
    Elan voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial
    distribution of TYSABRI. We also suspended dosing in all
    clinical trials of TYSABRI. These decisions were based on
    reports of cases of PML, a rare and frequently fatal,
    demyelinating disease of the central nervous system in patients
    treated with TYSABRI in clinical studies. We and Elan conducted
    a safety evaluation of patients treated with TYSABRI in MS,
    Crohn’s disease and RA clinical studies. The safety
    evaluation included the review of any reports of potential PML
    in MS patients receiving TYSABRI in the commercial setting. In
    October 2005, we completed the safety evaluation and found no
    new confirmed cases of PML. Three confirmed cases of PML were
    previously reported, two of which were fatal. On
    September 26, 2005, we and Elan submitted an sBLA for
    TYSABRI to the FDA for the treatment of MS. We and Elan have
    also recently submitted a data package to the EMEA. This
    information was supplied as part of the ongoing EMEA review
    process, which was initiated in the summer of 2004 with the
    filing for approval of TYSABRI as a treatment for MS. In
    November 2005, we were granted Priority Review status for the
    sBLA, which will result in action by the FDA approximately six
    months from the submission date, which is in March 2006. In
    January 2006, we and Elan announced that we had received
    notification from the FDA that the Peripheral and Central
    Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee would review TYSABRI for
    the treatment of MS on March 7, 2006. In February 2006, we
    and Elan announced that the FDA informed the companies that it
    removed the hold on clinical trial dosing of TYSABRI.


 


    We plan to work with regulatory authorities to determine the
    path forward and future commercial availability of the product.
    The path forward in the U.S. could range from the permanent
    withdrawal of TYSABRI from the market and terminating clinical
    studies of TYSABRI, the need for additional testing prior to
    approval, or the
    re-introduction
    of TYSABRI to the market in the U.S. If we are allowed to
    re-introduce TYSABRI to the market in the U.S., it could be for
    a significantly restricted use. The outcome of our work with the
    EMEA could result in the withdrawal of our applications for
    approval of TYSABRI as a treatment for MS and Crohn’s
    disease in the EU, or, if in consultation with the EMEA, we
    receive marketing approval for TYSABRI in one or both
    indications, a product label with similar restrictions on use as
    those that may be required by the FDA. If we are able to
    re-introduce TYSABRI into the U.S. market or get approval
    in the EU, we expect that there will be an ongoing extensive
    patient risk management program and that the label will include
    “black box” and other significant safety warnings. A
    “black box” warning is the most serious warning placed
    in the labeling of a prescription medication. The success of any
    reintroduction into the U.S. market and launch in the EU
    will depend upon its acceptance by the medical community and
    patients, which cannot be certain given questions regarding the
    safety of TYSABRI raised by these adverse events, the
    possibility of significant restrictions on use and the
    significant safety warnings that we expect to be in the label.
    Our inability to return TYSABRI to the market in the
    U.S. or to get TYSABRI approved in the EU or any
    significant restrictions on use or lack of acceptance of TYSABRI
    by the medical community or patients would materially affect our
    growth and impact various aspects of our business and our plans
    for the future. This could result in, among other things,
    material write-offs of inventory, intangible assets or goodwill,
    impairment of capital assets, and additional reductions in our
    workforce.


 



    Our
    Long-Term Success Depends Upon the Successful Development and
    Commercialization of Other Products from Our Research and
    Development Activities and External Growth
    Opportunities.


 


    Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the
    successful development and commercialization of other products
    from our research and development activities and external growth
    opportunities. We, along with Genentech, continue to expand our
    development efforts related to RITUXAN and we are independently
    expanding



    
    28



Table of Contents




    development efforts around other potential products in our
    pipeline. The expansion of our pipeline may include increases in
    spending on internal projects, and is expected to include an
    increase in spending on external growth opportunities, such as
    the acquisition and license of third party technologies or
    products, collaborations with other companies and universities,
    the acquisitions of companies with commercial products
    and/or
    products in their pipelines, and other types of investments.
    Product development and commercialization involve a high degree
    of risk. Only a small number of research and development
    programs result in the commercialization of a product. In
    addition, competition for collaborations and the acquisition and
    in-license of third party technologies and products in the
    biopharmaceutical industry is intense. We cannot be certain that
    we will be able to enter into collaborations or agreements for
    desirable and compatible technologies or products on acceptable
    terms or at all. Many important factors affect our ability to
    successfully develop and commercialize other products, including
    the ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    obtain and maintain necessary patents and licenses;



 


     
        • 

    
    demonstrate safety and efficacy of drug candidates at each stage
    of the clinical trial process;



 


     
        • 

    
    enroll patients in our clinical trials and complete clinical
    trials;



 


     
        • 

    
    overcome technical hurdles that may arise;



 


     
        • 

    
    manufacture successfully products in sufficient quantities to
    meet demand;



 


     
        • 

    
    meet applicable regulatory standards;



 


     
        • 

    
    obtain reimbursement coverage for the products;



 


     
        • 

    
    receive required regulatory approvals;



 


     
        • 

    
    produce drug candidates in commercial quantities at reasonable
    costs;



 


     
        • 

    
    compete successfully against other products and market products
    successfully;



 


     
        • 

    
    enter into agreements for desirable and compatible technologies
    or products on acceptable terms;



 


     
        • 

    
    anticipate accurately the costs associated with any acquisition;



 


     
        • 

    
    prevent the potential loss of key employees of any acquired
    business;



 


     
        • 

    
    acquire a supplier base for the materials associated with any
    new product opportunity;



 


     
        • 

    
    hire additional employees to operate effectively any acquired
    business, including employees with specialized knowledge;



 


     
        • 

    
    mitigate risks associated with entering into new markets in
    which we have no or limited prior experience; and



 


     
        • 

    
    manage successfully any significant collaborations
    and/or
    integrate any significant acquisitions.





 


    Success in early stage clinical trials or preclinical work does
    not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical trials will
    be successful. Even if later stage clinical trials are
    successful, the risk exists that unexpected concerns may arise
    from additional data or analysis or that obstacles may arise or
    issues may be identified in connection with review of clinical
    data with regulatory authorities or that regulatory authorities
    may disagree with our view of the data or require additional
    data or information or additional studies.


 



    Competition
    in Our Industry and in the Markets for Our Products is
    Intense.


 


    The biotechnology industry is intensely competitive. We compete
    in the marketing and sale of our products, the development of
    new products and processes, the acquisition of rights to new
    products with commercial potential and the hiring of personnel.
    We compete with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that
    have a greater number of products on the market, greater
    financial and other resources and other technological or
    competitive advantages. We cannot be certain that one or more of
    our competitors will not receive patent protection that
    dominates, blocks or adversely affects our product development
    or business; will not benefit from significantly greater sales
    and marketing capabilities; or will not develop products that
    are accepted more widely than ours.



    
    29



Table of Contents




    AVONEX competes with three other products:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    REBIF, which is
    co-promoted
    by Serono, Inc. and Pfizer Inc. in the U.S. and sold
    by Serono AG in the EU;



 


     
        • 

    
    BETASERON, sold by Berlex in the U.S. and sold under the name
    BETAFERON by Schering A.G. in the EU; and



 


     
        • 

    
    COPAXONE, sold by Teva in the U.S. and co-promoted by Teva and
    Aventis Pharma in the EU.





 


    In addition, a number of companies, including us, are working to
    develop products to treat MS that may in the future compete with
    AVONEX. If we are able to reintroduce TYSABRI to the market, it
    would compete with the products listed above, including AVONEX.
    AVONEX also faces competition from off-label uses of drugs
    approved for other indications. Some of our current competitors
    are also working to develop alternative formulations for
    delivery of their products, which may in the future compete with
    AVONEX.


 


    RITUXAN is typically used after patients fail to respond or
    relapse after treatment with traditional radiation therapy or
    standard chemotherapy regimes, such as CVP and CHOP. ZEVALIN is
    typically used after patients fail to respond or relapse
    following treatment with RITUXAN. ZEVALIN received designation
    as an Orphan Drug from the FDA for the treatment of relapsed or
    refractory low grade, follicular, or transformed
    B-cell
    non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, including patients with RITUXAN
    refractory follicular NHL. Marketing exclusivity resulting from
    this Orphan Drug designation expires in February 2009. ZEVALIN
    competes with BEXXAR, a radiolabeled molecule developed by
    Corixa Corporation, which is now being developed and
    commercialized by GlaxoSmithKline. BEXXAR received FDA approval
    in June 2003 to treat patients with CD20¡, follicular, NHL,
    with and without transformation, whose disease is refractory to
    RITUXAN and has relapsed following chemotherapy. A number of
    other companies, including us, are working to develop products
    to treat
    B-cell NHLs
    and other forms of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma that may
    ultimately compete with RITUXAN and ZEVALIN.


 


    In February 2006, the FDA approved the sBLA for use of RITUXAN,
    in combination with methotrexate, for reducing signs and
    symptoms in adult patients with moderately-to-severely active RA
    who have had an inadequate response to one or more TNF
    antagonist therapies. RITUXAN will compete with several
    different types of therapies in the RA market, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    traditional therapies for RA, including disease-modifying
    anti-rheumatic drugs, such as steroids, methotrexate and
    cyclosporine, and pain relievers such as acetaminophen;



 


     
        • 

    
    anti-TNF therapies, such as REMICADE, a drug sold worldwide by
    Centocor, Inc., a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson,
    HUMIRA, a drug sold by Abbott Laboratories, and ENBREL, a drug
    sold by
    Amgen,Inc.
    and Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Inc.;



 


     
        • 

    
    ORENCIA, a drug developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, which
    was approved by the FDA to treat
    moderate-to-severe
    RA in December 2005;



 


     
        • 

    
    drugs in late-stage development for RA; and



 


     
        • 

    
    drugs approved for other indications that are used to treat RA.





 


    In addition, a number of other companies, including us, are
    working to develop products to treat RA that may ultimately
    compete with RITUXAN in the RA marketplace.


 



    We are
    Subject to Risks Related to the Products that We
    Manufacture.


 


    We manufacture and expect to continue to manufacture our own
    commercial requirements of bulk AVONEX, and TYSABRI and the
    ZEVALIN bulk antibody. Our inability to manufacture successfully
    bulk product and to maintain regulatory approvals of our
    manufacturing facilities would harm our ability to produce
    timely sufficient quantities of commercial supplies of AVONEX,
    ZEVALIN and TYSABRI, if we are able to
    re-launch
    this product, to meet demand. Problems with manufacturing
    processes could result in product defects or manufacturing
    failures, which could require us to delay shipment of products,
    recall, or withdraw products previously shipped, or impair our
    ability to expand into new markets or supply products in
    existing markets. Any such problem would be exacerbated by
    unexpected demand for our products. In June 2005, we sold our
    large-scale manufacturing facility in Oceanside,



    
    30



Table of Contents




    California to Genentech. We previously had planned to use the
    Oceanside facility to manufacture TYSABRI and other commercial
    products. We currently manufacture TYSABRI at our manufacturing
    facility in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, or RTP. We
    are proceeding with construction of the bulk manufacturing
    component of our large-scale biologic manufacturing facility in
    Hillerod, Denmark and have added a labeling and packaging
    component to the project. See
    “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors — We are Subject to Risks Related to the
    Products That We Manufacture.” Our plans with respect to
    the Hillerod large-scale manufacturing facility are, in part,
    dependent upon the commercial availability and potential market
    acceptance of TYSABRI. See
    “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors — Safety Issues with TYSABRI Could
    Significantly Affect our Growth.” If we are able to
    re-introduce TYSABRI to the market, we expect that we will be
    able to meet foreseeable manufacturing needs for TYSABRI from
    our large-scale manufacturing facility in RTP. We would,
    however, need to evaluate our requirements for additional
    manufacturing capacity in light of the approved label and our
    judgment of the potential U.S. market acceptance of TYSABRI
    in MS, the probability of obtaining marketing approval of
    TYSABRI in MS in the EU and other jurisdictions, and the
    probability of obtaining marketing approval of TYSABRI in
    additional indications in the U.S., EU and other jurisdictions.


 


    If we cannot produce sufficient commercial requirements of bulk
    product to meet demand, we would need to rely on third party
    manufacturers, of which there are only a limited number capable
    of manufacturing bulk products of the type we require as
    contract suppliers. We cannot be certain that we could reach
    agreement on reasonable terms, if at all, with those
    manufacturers. Even if we were to reach agreement, the
    transition of the manufacturing process to a third party to
    enable commercial supplies could take a significant amount of
    time. Our ability to supply products in sufficient capacity to
    meet demand is also dependent upon third party contractors to
    fill-finish, package and store such products. For a discussion
    of the risks associated with using third parties to perform
    manufacturing-related services for our products, see
    “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors — We Rely to a Large Extent on Third
    Parties in the Manufacturing of Our Products.” In the past,
    we have had to write down and incur other charges and expenses
    for products that failed to meet specifications. Similar charges
    may occur in the future. Any prolonged interruption in the
    operations of our existing manufacturing facilities could result
    in cancellations of shipments or loss of product in the process
    of being manufactured. Because our manufacturing processes are
    highly complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA approval
    process, alternative qualified production capacity may not be
    available on a timely basis or at all.


 



    We
    Rely to a Large Extent on Third Parties in the Manufacturing of
    Our Products.


 


    We rely on Genentech for all RITUXAN
    manufacturing. Genentech relies on a third party to
    manufacture certain bulk RITUXAN requirements. If Genentech or
    any third party upon which it relies does not manufacture or
    fill/finish RITUXAN in sufficient quantities and on a timely and
    cost-effective basis, or if Genentech or any third party does
    not obtain and maintain all required manufacturing approvals,
    our business could be harmed. We also rely heavily upon third
    party manufacturers and suppliers to manufacture and supply
    significant portions of the product components of ZEVALIN other
    than the bulk antibody.


 


    We also source all of our fill-finish and the majority of our
    final product storage operations, along with a substantial
    portion of our packaging operations of the components used with
    our products, to a concentrated group of third party
    contractors. The manufacture of products and product components,
    fill-finish, packaging and storage of our products require
    successful coordination among ourselves and multiple third party
    providers. Our inability to coordinate these efforts, the lack
    of capacity available at the third party contractor or any other
    problems with the operations of these third party contractors
    could require us to delay shipment of saleable products, recall
    products previously shipped or impair our ability to supply
    products at all. This could increase our costs, cause us to lose
    revenue or market share, and damage our reputation. Any third
    party we use to fill-finish, package or store our products to be
    sold in the U.S. must be licensed by the FDA. As a result,
    alternative third party providers may not be readily available
    on a timely basis.


 


    Due to the unique nature of the production of our products,
    there are several single source providers of raw materials. We
    make every effort to qualify new vendors and to develop
    contingency plans so that production is not impacted by
    short-term issues associated with single source providers.
    Nonetheless, our business could be materially impacted by long
    term or chronic issues associated with single source providers.



    
    31



Table of Contents





    The
    Manufacture of Our Products is Subject to Government
    Regulation.


 


    We and our third party providers are generally required to
    maintain compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or
    cGMP, and are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable
    agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Any
    changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of
    manufacturing require amending our application to the FDA and
    ultimate amendment acceptance by the FDA prior to release of
    product to the market place. Our inability or the inability of
    our third party service providers to demonstrate ongoing cGMP
    compliance could require us to withdraw or recall product and
    interrupt commercial supply of our products. Any delay,
    interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture,
    fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our products as a result
    of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations
    of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection could
    significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize
    our products. This could increase our costs, cause us to lose
    revenue or market share and damage our reputation.


 



    Royalty
    Revenues Contribute to Our Overall Profitability and Are Not
    Within Our Control.


 


    Royalty revenues contribute to our overall profitability.
    Royalty revenues may fluctuate as a result of disputes with
    licensees, collaborators and partners, future patent expirations
    and other factors such as pricing reforms, health care reform
    initiatives, other legal and regulatory developments and the
    introduction of competitive products that may have an impact on
    product sales by our licensees and partners. In addition, sales
    levels of products sold by our licensees, collaborators and
    partners may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to the timing
    and extent of major events such as new indication approvals or
    government-sponsored programs. Since we are not involved in the
    development or sale of products by our licensees, collaborators
    and partners, we cannot be certain of the timing or potential
    impact of factors which may affect their sales. In addition, the
    obligation of licensees to pay us royalties generally terminates
    upon expiration of the related patents.


 



    Our
    Operating Results Are Subject to Significant
    Fluctuations.


 


    Our quarterly revenues, expenses and net income have fluctuated
    in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the
    future. Fluctuation may result from a variety of factors,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    demand and pricing for our products;



 


     
        • 

    
    physician and patient acceptance of our products;



 


     
        • 

    
    amount and timing of sales orders for our products;



 


     
        • 

    
    our achievement of product development objectives and milestones;



 


     
        • 

    
    research and development and manufacturing expenses;



 


     
        • 

    
    clinical trial enrollment and expenses;



 


     
        • 

    
    our manufacturing performance and capacity and that of our
    partners;



 


     
        • 

    
    percentage of time that our manufacturing facilities are
    utilized for commercial versus clinical manufacturing;



 


     
        • 

    
    rate and success of product approvals;



 


     
        • 

    
    costs related to obtain product approvals, launching new
    products and maintaining market acceptance for existing products;



 


     
        • 

    
    timing of regulatory approval, if any, of competitive products
    and the rate of market penetration of competing products;



 


     
        • 

    
    new data or information, positive or negative, on the benefits
    and risks of our products or products under development;



 


     
        • 

    
    expenses related to protecting our intellectual property;



 


     
        • 

    
    expenses related to litigation and settlement of litigation;






    
    32



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    payments made to acquire new products or technology;



 


     
        • 

    
    write downs and write offs of inventories, intangible assets,
    goodwill or investments;



 


     
        • 

    
    impairment of assets, such as buildings and manufacturing
    facilities;



 


     
        • 

    
    government or private healthcare reimbursement policies;



 


     
        • 

    
    collaboration obligations and copromotion payments we make or
    receive;



 


     
        • 

    
    timing and nature of contract manufacturing and contract
    research and development payments and receipts;



 


     
        • 

    
    interest rate fluctuations;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in our effective tax rate;



 


     
        • 

    
    foreign currency exchange rates; and



 


     
        • 

    
    overall economic conditions.





 


    Our operating results during any one quarter do not necessarily
    suggest the anticipated results of future quarters.


 



    Our
    Sales Depend on Payment and Reimbursement from Third Party
    Payors, and a Reduction in Payment Rate or Reimbursement Could
    Result in Decreased Use or Sales of Our Products.


 


    In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products are
    dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from
    third party payers such as state and federal governments under
    programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., and private
    insurance plans. In certain foreign markets, the pricing and
    profitability of our products generally are subject to
    government controls. In the U.S., there have been, there are,
    and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and
    federal proposals that could limit the amount that state or
    federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of
    pharmaceutical and biologic products. Recent Medicare reforms
    have lowered the reimbursement rate for many of our products. We
    are not able to predict the full impact of these reforms and
    their regulatory requirements on our business. However, we
    believe that legislation or regulatory action that reduces
    reimbursement for our products could adversely impact our
    business. In addition, we believe that private insurers, such as
    managed care organizations, may adopt their own reimbursement
    reductions unilaterally, or in response to such action.
    Reduction in reimbursement for our products could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations. Also, we
    believe the increasing emphasis on management of the utilization
    and cost of health care in the U.S. has and will continue
    to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which
    may adversely impact product sales. Further, when a new
    therapeutic product is approved, the availability of
    governmental
    and/or
    private reimbursement for that product is uncertain, as is the
    amount for which that product will be reimbursed. We cannot
    predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our
    approved products or product candidates, including those at any
    stage of development, and current reimbursement policies for
    marketed products may change at any time. In addition, benefit
    designs by government and private payers that provide coverage
    but require more cash outlay from the patient may have the
    affect of reducing utilization of our products.


 


    Recent Medicare reforms also added an expanded prescription drug
    benefit beginning in 2006 for all Medicare beneficiaries that
    choose to enroll. The temporary drug discount card program that
    was established for the purpose of providing interim
    opportunities for discounts to Medicare beneficiaries is being
    phased out in 2006. Meanwhile, the new Part D pharmacy
    benefit for Medicare beneficiaries is undergoing enrollment for
    implementation in 2006. The federal government, through the
    manner in which it has shaped this program, is encouraging the
    commercial plans and managed care entities that administer the
    new benefit to demand discounts from pharmaceutical and
    biotechnology companies. In addition, certain states have
    proposed and certain other states have adopted various programs
    for seniors and low-income individuals where a condition of
    coverage is that the manufacturer provide a discounted price, as
    well as programs involving importation from other countries,
    such as Canada, and bulk purchasing of drugs.


 


    If reimbursement for our marketed products changes adversely or
    if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our other
    current or future products, health care providers may limit how
    much or under what circumstances they



    
    33



Table of Contents




    will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce the use of
    our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products.


 


    In 2003, Congress revised the statutory provisions governing
    Medicare payment for drugs, biologics and radiopharmaceuticals
    furnished by physicians, suppliers, and hospital outpatient
    departments. For physicians and suppliers, beginning in 2005,
    Medicare began to set payment rates for drugs and biologicals
    they furnish at ASP plus 6 percent, which lowered payment
    rates for our products. These rates have been and will be
    updated quarterly. The revisions for payments to hospital
    outpatient departments included a transitional change to the
    payment methodology in 2004 and 2005, which lowered payment
    rates for our products in those years. The methodology has
    changed again in 2006, with payment rates being set at the same
    ASP plus 6 percent methodology used to reimburse physicians
    and suppliers since 2005. While physicians and suppliers
    adjusted to the change to the ASP payment methodology in 2005,
    that is not true for products dispensed in the hospital
    outpatient setting. Some of our products, such as RITUXAN, are
    not frequently provided in hospital outpatient departments so a
    majority of patients receiving the products should not be
    affected by these rate changes. Other products, such as ZEVALIN,
    are used primarily in the hospital outpatient setting and we are
    uncertain as to whether hospitals will view the 2006 rates
    favorably and therefore choose to provide ZEVALIN to their
    patients.


 


    We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most
    other countries. In the EU and some other international markets,
    the government provides health care at low direct cost to
    consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient
    reimbursement levels to control costs for the
    government-sponsored health care system. This international
    patchwork of price regulation may lead to inconsistent prices
    and some third party trade in our products from markets with
    lower prices. Such trade exploiting price differences between
    countries could undermine our sales in markets with higher
    prices.


 



    We May
    Be Unable to Adequately Protect or Enforce Our Intellectual
    Property Rights or Secure Rights to Third Party
    Patents.


 


    We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and
    various other countries seeking protection of inventions
    originating from our research and development, including a
    number of our processes and products. Patents have been issued
    on many of these applications. We have also obtained rights to
    various patents and patent applications under licenses with
    third parties, which provide for the payment of royalties by us.
    The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded
    to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the
    U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and is
    dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the
    patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. There
    is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if
    obtained, will afford us substantial protection or commercial
    benefit. Similarly, there is no assurance that our pending
    patent applications or patent applications licensed from third
    parties will ultimately be granted as patents or that those
    patents that have been issued or are issued in the future will
    prevail if they are challenged in court.


 


    A substantial number of patents have already been issued to
    other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. Competitors
    may have filed applications for, or have been issued patents and
    may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that may
    relate to products or processes competitive with or similar to
    our products and processes. Moreover, the patent laws of the
    U.S. and foreign countries are distinct and decisions as to
    patenting, validity of patents and infringement of patents may
    be resolved differently in different countries. In general, we
    obtain licenses to third party patents, which we deem necessary
    or desirable for the manufacture, use and sale of our products.
    We are currently unable to assess the extent to which we may
    wish or be required to acquire rights under such patents and the
    availability and cost of acquiring such rights, or whether a
    license to such patents will be available on acceptable terms or
    at all. There may be patents in the U.S. or in foreign
    countries or patents issued in the future that are unavailable
    to license on acceptable terms. Our inability to obtain such
    licenses may hinder our ability to market our products.


 


    We are aware that others, including various universities and
    companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent
    applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and in
    other countries claiming subject matter potentially useful to
    our business. Some of those patents and patent applications
    claim only specific products or methods of making such products,
    while others claim more general processes or techniques useful
    or now used in the biotechnology industry. There is considerable
    uncertainty within the biotechnology industry about the
    validity,



    
    34



Table of Contents




    scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the U.S. and
    elsewhere in the world, and, to date, there is no consistent
    policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology
    patents. We cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and
    validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the
    future or which patents might be asserted to be infringed by the
    manufacture, use and sale of our products.


 


    There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be
    significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and
    other intellectual property rights. Litigation, including our
    current patent litigation with Classen Immunotherapies, and
    other proceedings concerning patents and other intellectual
    property rights may be protracted, expensive and distracting to
    management. Competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the
    introduction of our products. Any litigation, including any
    interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions,
    oppositions to patents in foreign countries or litigation
    against our partners, may be costly and time consuming and could
    harm our business. We expect that litigation may be necessary in
    some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of
    our proprietary rights. Litigation may be necessary in other
    instances to determine the validity, scope
    and/or
    noninfringement of certain patent rights claimed by third
    parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our
    products. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could
    adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other
    proprietary rights, or, conversely, hinder our ability to market
    our products.


 



    Legislative
    or Regulatory Changes Could Harm Our Business.


 


    Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and
    oversight. As a result, we may become subject to governmental
    actions which could adversely affect our business, operations or
    financial condition, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new
    interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions,
    related to health care availability, method of delivery and
    payment for health care products and services;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes
    that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and
    result in lost market opportunity;



 


     
        • 

    
    new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing
    or marketing; and



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in the tax laws relating to our operations.





 



    Failure
    to Comply with Government Regulations Regarding Our Products
    Could Harm Our Business.


 


    Our activities, including the sale and marketing of our
    products, are subject to extensive government regulation and
    oversight, including regulation under the federal Food, Drug and
    Cosmetic Act and other federal and state statutes.
    Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target
    of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government
    regulation, including claims asserting antitrust violations and
    violations of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or other
    violations related to environmental matters. Violations of
    governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil
    sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties. We
    cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any
    litigation in this area. If we were to be convicted of violating
    laws regulating the sale and marketing of our products, our
    business could be materially harmed.


 



    Some
    of Our Activities may Subject Us to Risks under Federal and
    State Laws Prohibiting “Kickbacks” and False or
    Fraudulent Claims.


 


    We are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known
    as the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar
    state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce
    physicians or others either to purchase or arrange for or
    recommend the purchase of healthcare products or services. While
    the federal law applies only to products or services for which
    payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws
    may apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved.
    These laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional
    activities of manufacturers of drugs and biologicals, such as
    us, by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including
    sales programs, with hospitals, physicians, and other potential
    purchasers of drugs and biologicals. Other federal and state
    laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly
    presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from
    Medicare, Medicaid, or other third party payors that are false
    or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not
    provided as claimed. Anti-kickback and false claims laws



    
    35



Table of Contents




    prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance that
    can be substantial, including the possibility of exclusion from
    federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).


 


    Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target
    of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government
    regulation, including claims asserting violations of the federal
    False Claim Act, the federal anti-kickback statute, and other
    violations in connection with off-label promotion of products
    and Medicare
    and/or
    Medicaid reimbursement, or related to claims under state laws,
    including state anti-kickback and fraud laws. For example, we
    and a number of other major pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    companies are named defendants in certain Average Wholesale
    Price litigation pending in the U.S. District Court for the
    District of Massachusetts alleging, among other things,
    violations in connection with Medicaid reimbursement. See
    “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings” for a
    description of this litigation. While we continually strive to
    comply with these complex requirements, interpretations of the
    applicability of these laws to marketing practices is ever
    evolving and even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse
    publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.


 



    Failure
    to Prevail in Litigation or Satisfactorily Resolve a Third Party
    Investigation Could Harm Our Business.


 


    Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target
    of lawsuits relating to product liability claims and disputes
    over intellectual property rights (including patents). See
    “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors — We May Be Unable to Adequately Protect
    or Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights or Secure Rights to
    Third Party Patents.” Additionally, the administration of
    drugs in humans, whether in clinical studies or commercially,
    can result in lawsuits with product liability claims whether or
    not the drugs are actually at fault in causing an injury. Our
    products or product candidates may cause, or may appear to have
    caused, injury or dangerous drug interactions that we may not
    learn about or understand until the product or product candidate
    has been administered to patients for a prolonged period of
    time. For example, in July 2005, a complaint was filed against
    us and Elan by the estate and husband of Anita Smith, a patient
    from the TYSABRI Phase 3 clinical study in combination with
    AVONEX, known as SENTINEL, who died after developing PML, a rare
    and frequently fatal, demyelinating disease of the central
    nervous system. We may face additional lawsuits with product
    liability and other related claims by patients treated with
    TYSABRI or related to TYSABRI, including lawsuits filed by
    patients who have developed PML or other serious adverse events
    while using TYSABRI.


 


    Public companies may also be the subject of certain other types
    of claims, including those asserting violations of securities
    laws and derivative actions. For example, we face several
    stockholder-derivative actions and class action lawsuits related
    to our announcement of the suspension of marketing and
    commercial distribution of TYSABRI in February 2005. In April
    2005, we received a formal order of investigation from the
    Boston District Office of the SEC. The SEC is investigating
    whether any violations of the federal securities laws occurred
    in connection with the suspension of marketing and commercial
    distribution of TYSABRI. We continue to cooperate fully with the
    SEC in this investigation.


 


    We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any
    pending litigation or third party investigation. We may not be
    successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights in the
    litigation or investigation to which we are currently subject,
    or in new lawsuits, investigations or claims brought against us,
    and, as a result, our business could be materially harmed. These
    lawsuits, investigations or claims may result in large judgments
    or settlements against us, any of which could have a negative
    effect on our financial performance and business. Additionally,
    lawsuits and investigations can be expensive to defend, whether
    or not the lawsuit or investigation has merit, and the defense
    of these actions may divert the attention of our management and
    other resources that would otherwise be engaged in running our
    business.


 


    We maintain product liability and director and officer insurance
    that we regard as reasonably adequate to protect us from
    potential claims, however we cannot be certain that it will.
    Also, the costs of insurance have increased dramatically in
    recent years, and the availability of coverage has decreased. As
    a result, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain
    our current product liability insurance at a reasonable cost, or
    at all.



    
    36



Table of Contents





    Our
    Business Involves Environmental Risks.


 


    Our business and the business of several of our strategic
    partners, including Genentech and Elan, involve the controlled
    use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive
    compounds. Biologics manufacturing is extremely susceptible to
    product loss due to microbial or viral contamination, material
    equipment failure, or vendor or operator error. Although we
    believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of
    such materials comply with state and federal standards, there
    will always be the risk of accidental contamination or injury.
    In addition, microbial or viral contamination may cause the
    closure of a manufacturing facility for an extended period of
    time. By law, radioactive materials may only be disposed of at
    state-approved facilities. We currently store radioactive
    materials from our California operation
    on-site
    because the approval of a disposal site in California for all
    California-based companies has been delayed indefinitely. If and
    when a disposal site is approved, we may incur substantial costs
    related to the disposal of these materials. If we were to become
    liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended
    facility shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages and
    penalties that could harm our business.


 



    We
    Rely Upon Key Personnel.


 


    Our success will depend, to a great extent, upon the experience,
    abilities and continued services of our executive officers and
    key scientific personnel. If we lose the services of any of
    these individuals, our business could be harmed. We currently
    have an employment agreement with James C. Mullen, our Chief
    Executive Officer and President. Our success also will depend
    upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified
    scientific, managerial, sales and manufacturing personnel and
    our ability to develop and maintain relationships with qualified
    clinical researchers. Competition to obtain the services of
    these personnel and relationships is intense and we compete with
    numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as
    with universities and non-profit research organizations. We may
    not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified
    personnel or develop and maintain relationships with clinical
    researchers. One effect of recent workforce reductions is the
    loss of research, development and other personnel that could
    have contributed to our future growth. It remains to be seen
    whether the loss of such personnel will have an adverse effect
    on our ability to accomplish our research, development and
    external growth objectives.


 



    Future
    Transactions May Harm Our Business or the Market Price of Our
    Stock.


 


    We regularly review potential transactions related to
    technologies, products or product rights and businesses
    complementary to our business. These transactions could include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    mergers;



 


     
        • 

    
    acquisitions:



 


     
        • 

    
    strategic alliances;



 


     
        • 

    
    licensing and collaboration agreements; and



 


     
        • 

    
    copromotion agreements.





 


    We may choose to enter into one or more of these transactions at
    any time, which may cause substantial fluctuations to the market
    price of our stock. Moreover, depending upon the nature of any
    transaction, we may experience a charge to earnings, which could
    also harm the market price of our stock.


 



    We are
    Subject to Market Risk.


 


    We have exposure to financial risk in several areas including
    changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. We attempt
    to minimize our exposures to such risks by using certain
    financial instruments, for purposes other than trading, in
    accordance with our overall risk management guidelines. See
    “Critical Accounting Estimates” in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” for information
    regarding our accounting policies for financial instruments and
    disclosures of financial instruments.



    
    37



Table of Contents





    Our
    Financial Position, Results of Operations and Cash Flows can be
    Affected by Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange
    Rates.


 


    We have operations in Europe, Japan, Australia and Canada in
    connection with the sale of AVONEX. We also receive royalty
    revenues based on worldwide product sales by our licensees and
    through Genentech on sales of RITUXAN outside of the
    U.S. As a result, our financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows can be affected by fluctuations in
    foreign currency exchange rates (primarily Euro, Swedish krona,
    British pound, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar and Swiss franc).


 


    We use foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign
    currency risk and do not engage in currency speculation. We use
    these forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted transactions
    denominated in foreign currencies. A hypothetical adverse 10%
    movement in foreign exchange rates compared to the
    U.S. dollar across all maturities (for example, a
    strengthening of the Euro) would result in a hypothetical loss
    in fair value of approximately $21 million. Our use of this
    methodology to quantify the market risk of such instruments
    should not be construed as an endorsement of its accuracy or the
    accuracy of the related assumptions. The quantitative
    information about market risk is necessarily limited because it
    does not take into account operating transactions.


 



    We are
    Exposed to Risk of Interest Rate Fluctuations.


 


    The fair value of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities are subject to change as a result of potential
    changes in market interest rates. The potential change in fair
    value for interest rate sensitive instruments has been assessed
    on a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse movement across
    all maturities. We estimate that such hypothetical adverse
    100 basis point movement would not have materially impacted
    net income or materially affected the fair value of interest
    rate sensitive instruments.


 



    Volatility
    of Our Stock Price.


 


    The market prices for our common stock and for securities of
    other companies engaged primarily in biotechnology and
    pharmaceutical development, manufacture and distribution are
    highly volatile. For example, the selling price of our common
    stock fluctuated between $70.00 per share and
    $33.18 per share during 2005. The market price of our
    common stock likely will continue to fluctuate due to a variety
    of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    material public announcements;



 


     
        • 

    
    the announcement and timing of new product introductions by us
    or others;



 


     
        • 

    
    material developments relating to TYSABRI;



 


     
        • 

    
    events related to our other products or those of our
    competitors, including the withdrawal or suspension of products
    from the market;



 


     
        • 

    
    technical innovations or product development by us or our
    competitors;



 


     
        • 

    
    regulatory approvals or regulatory issues;



 


     
        • 

    
    availability and level of third party reimbursement;



 


     
        • 

    
    developments relating to patents, proprietary rights and Orphan
    Drug status;



 


     
        • 

    
    results of late-stage clinical trials with respect to our
    products under development or those of our competitors;



 


     
        • 

    
    new data or information, positive or negative, on the benefits
    and risks of our products or products under development;



 


     
        • 

    
    political developments or proposed legislation in the
    pharmaceutical or healthcare industry;



 


     
        • 

    
    economic and other external factors, disaster or crisis;



 


     
        • 

    
    period-to-period
    fluctuations in our financial results or results which do not
    meet or exceed analyst expectations; and






    
    38



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    market trends relating to or affecting stock prices throughout
    our industry, whether or not related to results or news
    regarding us or our competitors.





 



    We
    Have Adopted Several Anti-takeover Measures As Well As Other
    Measures to Protect Certain Members of Our Management Which May
    Discourage or Prevent a Third Party From Acquiring
    Us.


 


    A number of factors pertaining to our corporate governance
    discourage a takeover attempt that might be viewed as beneficial
    to stockholders who wish to receive a premium for their shares
    from a potential bidder. For example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a
    business combination with an interested stockholder for a period
    of three years after the date of the transaction in which the
    person became an interested stockholder, unless the business
    combination is approved in the manner prescribed in
    Section 203;



 


     
        • 

    
    our stockholder rights plan is designed to cause substantial
    dilution to a person who attempts to acquire us on terms not
    approved by our board of directors;



 


     
        • 

    
    our board of directors has the authority to issue, without a
    vote or action of stockholders, up to 8,000,000 shares of
    preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and
    privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to
    the rights of holders of common stock;



 


     
        • 

    
    our amended and restated collaboration agreement with Genentech
    provides that, in the event we undergo a change of control,
    Genentech may present an offer to us to purchase our rights to
    RITUXAN. We must then accept Genentech’s offer or purchase
    Genentech’s rights to RITUXAN. If Genentech presents such
    an offer, then they will be deemed concurrently to have
    exercised a right, in exchange for a share in the operating
    profits or net sales in the U.S. of any other anti CD-20
    products developed under the agreement, to purchase our interest
    in each such product. The rights of Genentech described in this
    paragraph may limit our attractiveness to potential acquirors;



 


     
        • 

    
    our collaboration agreement with Elan provides Elan with the
    option to buy the rights to TYSABRI in the event that we undergo
    a change of control, which may limit our attractiveness to
    potential acquirors;



 


     
        • 

    
    our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the
    entire board from being replaced in any single year;



 


     
        • 

    
    advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for
    election as a director and for proposals to be brought before an
    annual meeting of stockholders; and



 


     
        • 

    
    our bylaws provide that, until November 12, 2006, the
    affirmative vote of at least 80% of our board of directors
    (excluding directors who are serving as an officer or employee)
    is required to remove James C. Mullen as our Chief Executive
    Officer and President.





 




    
    



    
    Item 1B