Item 1A — Risk Factors” entitled
    “Our near terms success depends on the market acceptance
    and successful sales growth of TYSABRI” and “Pending
    and future product liability claims may adversely affect our
    business and our reputation.”


 


    Furthermore, recently enacted legislation provides the FDA with
    expanded authority over drug products after approval. This
    legislation enhances the FDA’s authority with respect to
    post-marketing safety surveillance,



    
    20



Table of Contents




    including, among other things, the authority to require
    additional post-approval studies or clinical trials and mandate
    label changes as a result of safety findings. These requirements
    may affect our ability to maintain marketing approval of our
    products or require us to make significant expenditures to
    obtain or maintain such approvals.


 


    If we seek to make certain changes to an approved product, such
    as adding a new indication, making certain manufacturing
    changes, or changing manufacturers or suppliers of certain
    ingredients or components, we will need review and approval of
    regulatory authorities, including FDA and EMEA, before the
    changes can be implemented.


 


    Orphan Drug Act.  Under the U.S. Orphan
    Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs
    intended to treat a “rare disease or condition,” which
    generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than
    200,000 individuals in the U.S. Orphan drug designation
    must be requested before submitting a BLA or NDA. After the FDA
    grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the
    therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are publicly
    disclosed by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey
    any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory
    review and approval process. If a product which has an orphan
    drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval
    for the indication for which it has such designation, the
    product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not
    approve any other applications to market the same drug for the
    same indication for a period of seven years following marketing
    approval, except in certain very limited circumstances, such as
    if the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the
    orphan product.


 


    Biosimilars.  Most of our marketed products,
    including AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, are licensed under the
    Public Health Service Act as biological products. Unlike small
    molecule drugs, which are subject to the generic drug provisions
    (Hatch-Waxman Act) of the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
    Act, as described below, there currently is no process in the
    U.S. for the submission or approval of biological products
    based upon abbreviated data packages or a showing of sameness to
    another approved product. There is public dialogue at FDA and in
    the Congress, however, regarding the scientific and statutory
    basis upon which such products, known as biosimilars or
    follow-on biologics, could be approved and marketed in the
    U.S. We cannot be certain when, or if, Congress will create
    a statutory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. We cannot
    predict what impact, if any, the approval of biosimilars would
    have on the sales of our products.


 


    In Europe, however, the EMEA has issued guidelines for approval
    of biological products through an abbreviated pathway, and the
    first biosimilars have been approved. If a biosimilar version of
    one of our products were approved in Europe, it could have a
    negative effect on sales of that product.


 


    Small molecule generics.  We are developing
    small molecule products. If development is successful, these
    products may be approved as drugs under the U.S. Food,
    Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Under the Drug Price Competition and
    Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also known as the
    Hatch-Waxman Act, Congress created two pathways for FDA review
    and approval of “generic” versions of pioneer small
    molecule drug products. The first is the abbreviated new drug
    application, or ANDA, a type of application in which approval is
    based on a showing of “sameness” to an already
    approved drug product. An ANDA need not contain full reports of
    safety and effectiveness, but rather must demonstrate that a
    proposed product is “the same as” a reference
    brand-name product. An ANDA applicant is also required to
    demonstrate the “bioequivalence” of its product to the
    reference product. The second pathway is a 505(b)(2)
    application, or an NDA in which one or more of the
    investigations relied upon by the applicant for approval was not
    conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant
    has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by
    or for whom the investigation was conducted. A 505(b)(2)
    applicant must provide the FDA with any additional clinical data
    necessary to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the
    product with the proposed change(s).


 


    The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides for the restoration of a
    portion of the patent term lost during small molecule product
    development. In addition, the statute establishes a complex set
    of processes for notifying sponsors of pioneer products of ANDA
    and 505(b)(2) applications that may infringe patents and to
    permit sponsors of pioneer drugs an opportunity to pursue patent
    litigation prior to FDA approval of the generic product. The
    Hatch-Waxman Act also awards non-patent marketing exclusivities
    to qualifying pioneer drug products. For example, the first
    applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a product that contains
    an active ingredient not found in any other approved product is
    awarded five years of “new chemical entity” marketing
    exclusivity. Where this exclusivity is awarded, the FDA is
    prohibited , with some exception, from accepting any ANDAs or
    505(b)(2) applications during



    
    21



Table of Contents




    the five-year period. The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides three
    years of marketing exclusivity for the approval of NDAs,
    505(b)(2) applications, and supplements, where those
    applications contain the results of new clinical investigations
    (other than bioavailability studies) essential to the FDA’s
    approval of the applications. Three-year exclusivity prohibits
    the final FDA approval of ANDAs or 505(b)(2) applications for
    products with the specific changes associated with those
    clinical investigations. It does not necessarily prohibit the
    FDA from approving an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application for a
    product containing the same active ingredient. For example, if
    clinical investigations supported a new indication, three-year
    exclusivity would not block FDA approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2)
    application for a product where the new indication has been
    carved out or omitted from the label.


 


    Good manufacturing practices.  The FDA, the
    EMEA and other regulatory agencies regulate and inspect
    equipment, facilities, and processes used in the manufacturing
    of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to approving a
    product. If, after receiving clearance from regulatory agencies,
    a company makes a material change in manufacturing equipment,
    location, or process, additional regulatory review and approval
    may be required. We also must adhere to current Good
    Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and product-specific
    regulations enforced by the FDA following product approval. The
    FDA, the EMEA and other regulatory agencies also conduct
    regular, periodic visits to re-inspect equipment, facilities,
    and processes following the initial approval of a product. If,
    as a result of these inspections, it is determined that our
    equipment, facilities, or processes do not comply with
    applicable regulations and conditions of product approval,
    regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal, or administrative
    sanctions
    and/or
    remedies against us, including the suspension of our
    manufacturing operations.


 


    In addition, the FDA regulates all advertising and promotion
    activities for products under its jurisdiction both prior to and
    after approval. A company can make only those claims relating to
    safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA. Physicians may
    prescribe legally available drugs for uses that are not
    described in the drug’s labeling and that differ from those
    tested by us and approved by the FDA. Such off-label uses are
    common across medical specialties, and often reflect a
    physician’s belief that the off-label use is the best
    treatment for the patients. The FDA does not regulate the
    behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments, but the
    FDA regulations do impose stringent restrictions on
    manufacturers’ communications regarding off-label uses.
    Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements may subject a
    company to adverse publicity, enforcement action by the FDA,
    corrective advertising, and the full range of civil and criminal
    penalties available to the FDA.


 



    Regulation Outside
    the U.S.


 


    In the EU, Canada, and Australia, regulatory requirements and
    approval processes are similar in principle to those in the
    U.S. depending on the type of drug for which approval is
    sought. There are currently three potential tracks for marketing
    approval in EU countries: mutual recognition, decentralized
    procedures, and centralized procedures. These review mechanisms
    may ultimately lead to approval in all EU countries, but each
    method grants all participating countries some decision-making
    authority in product approval.


 



    Sales,
    Marketing and Product Pricing


 


    In the U.S., the federal government regularly considers
    reforming health care coverage and costs. For example, reforms
    to Medicare have reduced the reimbursement rates for many of our
    products. Effective January 1, 2005, Medicare pays
    physicians and suppliers that furnish our products under a
    payment methodology using average sales price, or ASP,
    information. Manufacturers, including us, are required to
    provide ASP information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
    Services on a quarterly basis. The manufacturer submitted
    information is used to compute Medicare payment rates, which are
    set at ASP plus 6 percent, updated quarterly. There is a
    mechanism for comparison of such payment rates to widely
    available market prices, which could cause further decreases in
    Medicare payment rates, although this mechanism has yet to be
    utilized. Effective January 1, 2006, Medicare began to use
    the same ASP plus 6 percent payment methodology to
    determine Medicare rates paid for products furnished by hospital
    outpatient departments. As of January 1, 2008, the
    reimbursement rate in the hospital outpatient setting will be
    ASP plus 5 percent. If a manufacturer is found to have made
    a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, the statute
    provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each
    misrepresentation and for each day in which the
    misrepresentation was applied.



    
    22



Table of Contents




    Another payment reform is the addition of an expanded
    prescription drug benefit for all Medicare beneficiaries known
    as Medicare Part D. This is a voluntary benefit that is
    being implemented through private plans under contractual
    arrangements with the federal government. Like pharmaceutical
    coverage through private health insurance, Part D plans
    establish formularies that govern the drugs and biologicals that
    will be offered and the out- of-pocket obligations for such
    products. In addition, plans are expected to negotiate discounts
    from drug manufacturers and pass on some of those savings to
    Medicare beneficiaries.


 


    Future legislation or regulatory actions implementing recent or
    future legislation may have a significant effect on our
    business. Our ability to successfully commercialize products may
    depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the
    costs of our products and related treatments will be available
    in the U.S. and worldwide from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. Substantial uncertainty exists as to the
    reimbursement status of newly approved health care products by
    third party payors.


 


    We also participate in the Medicaid rebate program established
    by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, and under
    multiple subsequent amendments of that law. Sections 6001,
    6002, and 6003 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA,
    made significant changes to the Medicaid prescription drug
    provisions of the Social Security Act. These changes include,
    but are not limited to, revising the definition of average
    manufacturer price, or AMP, establishing an obligation to report
    AMP on a monthly basis, in addition to a quarterly basis,
    establishing a new formula for calculating Federal upper limits,
    or FULs, requiring rebates for certain physician-administered
    drugs, and clarifying rebate liability for authorized generic
    drugs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for
    each unit of product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the
    rebate for each product is set by law as the larger of, 15.1% of
    AMP or the difference between AMP and the best price available
    from us to any commercial or non-governmental customer. The
    rebate amount must be adjusted upward where the AMP for a
    product’s first full quarter of sales, when adjusted for
    increases in the CPI-U, or Consumer Price Index —
    Urban, exceeds the AMP for the current quarter with the upward
    adjustment equal to the excess amount. The rebate amount is
    required to be recomputed each quarter based on our report of
    current AMP and best price for each of our products to the
    Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The terms of our
    participation in the program imposes a requirement for us to
    report revisions to AMP or best price within a period not to
    exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data was
    originally due. Any such revisions could have the impact of
    increasing or decreasing our rebate liability for prior
    quarters, depending on the direction of the revision. In
    addition, if we were found to have knowingly submitted false
    information to the government, the statute provides for civil
    monetary penalties in the amount not to exceed $100,000 per item
    of false information in addition to other penalties available to
    the government.


 


    The availability of federal funds to pay for our products under
    the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs requires that we
    extend discounts under the 340B/PHS drug pricing program. The
    340B/PHS drug pricing program extends discounts to a variety of
    community health clinics and other entities that receive health
    services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a
    disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries.


 


    We also make our products available for purchase by authorized
    users of the Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, of the General
    Services Administration pursuant to our FSS contract with the
    Department of Veterans Affairs. Under the Veterans Health Care
    Act of 1992, or the VHC Act, we are required to offer deeply
    discounted FSS contract pricing to four Federal
    agencies — the Department of Veterans Affairs, the
    Department of Defense, the Coast Guard and the Public Health
    Service (including the Indian Health Service) — for
    federal funding to be made available for reimbursement of any of
    our products under the Medicaid program and for our products to
    be eligible to be purchased by those four Federal agencies and
    certain Federal grantees. FSS pricing to those four Federal
    agencies must be equal to or less than the “Federal Ceiling
    Price,” which is, at a minimum, 24% off the Non-Federal
    Average Manufacturer Price, or “Non-FAMP”, for the
    prior fiscal year. In addition, if we are found to have
    knowingly submitted false information to the government, the VHC
    provides for civil monetary penalties of not to exceed $100,000
    per false item of information in addition to other penalties
    available to the government.


 


    We are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining
    to health care “fraud and abuse,” including
    anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws
    make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit,
    offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to
    induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or
    prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the
    statutory provisions and the absence of



    
    23



Table of Contents




    guidance in the form of regulations and very few court decisions
    addressing industry practices, it is possible that our practices
    might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False
    claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly
    presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third
    party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for
    reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent,
    claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims
    for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities
    relating to the sale and marketing of our products may be
    subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations of fraud and
    abuse laws may be punishable by criminal
    and/or civil
    sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well
    as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care
    programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government
    were to allege or convict us of violating these laws, our
    business could be harmed. In addition, there is an ability for
    private individuals to bring similar actions. See the section of
    “Item 1A — Risk Factors” entitled
    “If we fail to comply with the extensive legal and
    regulatory requirements affecting the healthcare industry, we
    could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of
    business.” For a description of litigation in this area in
    which we are currently involved, see
    “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.”


 


    Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons
    discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the
    increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement
    authorities. Further, there are an increasing number of state
    laws that require manufacturers to make reports to states on
    pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain
    ambiguities as to what is required to comply with the laws.
    Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our
    reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of
    the pertinent state authorities.


 



    Other
    Regulations


 


    Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  We are also
    subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which
    prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to
    pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any
    foreign government official, government staff member, political
    party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain
    business or to otherwise influence a person working in an
    official capacity.


 


    NIH Guidelines.  We conduct relevant research
    at all of our research facilities in the U.S. in compliance
    with the current U.S. National Institutes of Health
    Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules, or
    the NIH Guidelines, and all other applicable federal and state
    regulations. By local ordinance, we are required to, among other
    things, comply with the NIH Guidelines in relation to our
    facilities in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and San Diego,
    California, and are required to operate pursuant to certain
    permits.


 


    Other Laws.  Our present and future business
    has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws
    and regulations. Various laws, regulations and recommendations
    relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the
    experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage,
    movement, import and export and use and disposal of hazardous or
    potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive
    compounds and infectious disease agents, used in connection with
    our research work are or may be applicable to our activities.
    Certain agreements entered into by us involving exclusive
    license rights may be subject to national or supranational
    antitrust regulatory control, the effect of which also cannot be
    predicted. The extent of government regulation, which might
    result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot
    accurately be predicted.


 



    Manufacturing
    and Raw Materials


 


    We currently produce all of our bulk AVONEX, as well as AMEVIVE
    on a contract basis for Astellas, at our manufacturing
    facilities located in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina and
    Cambridge, Massachusetts. We currently produce TYSABRI at our
    Research Triangle Park facility. We supply the commercial
    requirements of the antibody for ZEVALIN on a contract basis for
    Cell Therapeutics, Inc. We have moved the manufacturing of
    ZEVALIN to our manufacturing facilities in Cambridge,
    Massachusetts and are awaiting FDA approval of the production of
    the antibody at that facility. Genentech is responsible for all
    worldwide manufacturing activities for bulk RITUXAN and has
    sourced the manufacturing of certain bulk RITUXAN requirements
    to an independent third party. We manufacture clinical products
    in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina and Cambridge,
    Massachusetts. We use a third party to manufacture the active
    pharmaceutical ingredient of FUMADERM and another third party to
    further process that to produce the FUMADERM pill.



    
    24



Table of Contents




    We are constructing a large-scale biologic manufacturing
    facility in Hillerod, Denmark to be used to manufacture TYSABRI
    and other products in our pipeline. The first phase is complete
    and included the construction of an administrative building, a
    laboratory, a labeling and packaging facility and a facility to
    provide utilities to the Hillerod campus. The administrative
    building was in use in 2006, and the label and packaging
    facility and lab facility were placed into service in the first
    quarter of 2007. In addition, a large-scale manufacturing
    facility was partially constructed during this phase and major
    equipment was installed. The utilities facility has been in
    partial use since the first quarter of 2007. The second phase of
    the project, which we commenced in January 2007, involves the
    completion and fit out of the large-scale manufacturing facility
    and construction of a warehouse. The utilities facility is
    expected to be in full use upon completion of the second phase.
    The large scale manufacturing facility is expected to be ready
    for commercial production in 2009. See
    “Item 1A — Risk Factors” entitled
    “We have made a significant investment in constructing a
    manufacturing facility the success of which depends upon the
    completion and licensing of the facility and continued demand
    for our products.”


 


    We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final
    product storage operations for our products, along with a
    substantial part of our packaging operations, to a concentrated
    group of third party contractors. Many of the raw materials and
    supplies required for the production of AVONEX, TYSABRI, ZEVALIN
    and AMEVIVE are available from various suppliers in quantities
    adequate to meet our needs. However, due to the unique nature of
    the production of our products, we do have several single source
    providers of raw materials. We make efforts to qualify new
    vendors and to develop contingency plans so that production is
    not impacted by short-term issues associated with single source
    providers. Each of our third party service providers, suppliers
    and manufacturers are subject to continuing inspection by the
    FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions. Any delay,
    interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture,
    fill-finish, packaging, or storage of our products, including as
    a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or
    operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency
    inspection, could significantly impair our ability to sell our
    products. See the sections of “Item 1A —
    Risk Factors” entitled “Problems with manufacturing or
    with inventory planning could result in our inability to deliver
    products, inventory shortages or surpluses, product recalls and
    increased costs”, “We rely on third parties to provide
    services in connection with the manufacture of our products and,
    in some instances, the manufacture of the product itself,”
    and “If we fail to meet the stringent requirements of
    governmental regulation in the manufacture of our products, we
    could incur substantial remedial costs and a reduction in
    sales.”


 


    We believe that our existing manufacturing facilities and
    outside sources will allow us to meet our near-term and
    long-term manufacturing needs for our current commercial
    products and our other products currently in clinical trials.
    Our existing licensed manufacturing facilities operate under
    multiple licenses from the FDA, regulatory authorities in the EU
    and other regulatory authorities. For a discussion of risks
    related to our ability to meet our manufacturing needs for our
    commercial products and our other products currently in clinical
    trials, see the sections of “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors” entitled “Problems with manufacturing or with
    inventory planning could result in our inability to deliver
    products, inventory shortages or surpluses, product recalls and
    increased costs”, “We rely on third parties to provide
    services in connection with the manufacture of our products and,
    in some instances, the manufacture of the product itself,”
    and “If we fail to meet the stringent requirements of
    governmental regulation in the manufacture of our products, we
    could incur substantial remedial costs and a reduction in
    sales.”


 


    Additional manufacturing facilities and outside sources may be
    required to meet our long-term research, development and
    commercial production needs.


 



    Our
    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately
    4,300 employees.



    
    25



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    Executive Officers


 


    The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages as
    of February 14, 2008 and their principal positions.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    James C. Mullen



 

 


    49

 


 


    Chief Executive Officer and President





    Cecil B. Pickett, Ph.D. 



 

 


    62

 


 


    President, Research and Development





    Paul J. Clancy



 

 


    46

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer





    Susan H. Alexander, Esq. 



 

 


    51

 


 


    Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary





    John M. Dunn, Esq. 



 

 


    55

 


 


    Executive Vice President, New Ventures





    Robert A. Hamm



 

 


    56

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations &
    Technology





    Hans Peter Hasler



 

 


    52

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Global Neurology, Head of International





    Faheem Hasnain



 

 


    49

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Oncology/Rheumatology Strategic
    Business Unit





    Michael F. MacLean



 

 


    42

 


 


    Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller





    Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D. 



 

 


    60

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and
    Communications





    Mark C. Wiggins



 

 


    52

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Corporate and Business Development








 


    Reference to “our” or “us” in the following
    descriptions of the background of our executive officers include
    Biogen Idec and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation.


 


    James C. Mullen is our Chief Executive Officer and
    President and is a director, and has served in these positions
    since the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation, or the merger, in November 2003. Mr. Mullen
    was formerly Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
    of Biogen, Inc. He was named Chairman of the Board of Directors
    of Biogen, Inc. in July 2002, after being named President and
    Chief Executive Officer of Biogen, Inc. in June 2000.
    Mr. Mullen joined Biogen, Inc. in 1989 as Director,
    Facilities and Engineering. He was named Biogen, Inc.’s
    Vice President, Operations, in 1992. From 1996 to 1999,
    Mr. Mullen served as Vice President, International, with
    responsibility for building all Biogen, Inc. operations outside
    North America. From 1984 to 1988, Mr. Mullen held various
    positions at SmithKline Beckman Corporation (now GlaxoSmithKline
    plc). Mr. Mullen is a member of the board of directors and
    executive committee of the Biotechnology Industry Organization,
    or BIO, and is a former chairman of the board of BIO.
    Mr. Mullen is also a director of PerkinElmer, Inc.


 


    Cecil B. Pickett Ph.D. is our President, Research and
    Development and has served in that position since September 2006
    and has served as one of our directors since September 2006.
    Prior to joining Biogen Idec, he was President, Schering-Plough
    Research Institute from March 2002 to September 2006, and before
    that he was Executive VP of Discovery Research at
    Schering-Plough Corporation from September 1993 to March 2002.
    Mr. Pickett is a member of the Institute of Medicine of the
    National Academy of Sciences.


 


    Paul J. Clancy is our Executive Vice President, Finance
    and Chief Financial Officer and has served in that position
    since August 2007. Mr. Clancy joined Biogen Idec in 2001,
    and has held several senior executive positions, including Vice
    President of Business Planning, Portfolio Management and
    U.S. Marketing, and Senior Vice President of Finance with
    responsibilities for leading the Treasury, Tax, Investor
    Relations and Business Planning groups. Prior to joining Biogen
    Idec, he spent 13 years at PepsiCo, serving in a range of
    financial and general management positions.


 


    Susan H. Alexander is our Executive Vice President,
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and has served in these
    positions since January 2006. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander
    served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Corporate Secretary of PAREXEL International Corporation, since
    September 2003. From June 2001



    
    26



Table of Contents




    to September 2003, Ms. Alexander served as General Counsel
    of IONA Technologies. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander served
    as Counsel at Cabot Corporation from January 1995 to May 2001.
    Prior to that, Ms. Alexander was a partner of the law firms
    of Hinckley, Allen & Snyder and Fine &
    Ambrogne.


 


    John M. Dunn is our Executive Vice President, New
    Ventures and has served in that position since the merger in
    November 2003. Mr. Dunn was our Senior Vice President,
    Legal and Compliance, and General Counsel from January 2002 to
    November 2003. Prior to that, he was a partner at the law firm
    of Pillsbury Winthrop LLP specializing in corporate and business
    representation of public and private companies.


 


    Robert A. Hamm is our Executive Vice President,
    Pharmaceutical Operations & Technology, and has served
    in that position since October 2007. Previously, Mr. Hamm
    served as Senior Vice President, Neurology Strategic Business
    Unit from January 2006 to October 2007; Senior Vice President,
    Immunology Business Unit from the merger in November 2003 until
    January 2006; and in the same capacity with Biogen, Inc. from
    November 2002 to November 2003. Before that, he served as Senior
    Vice President — Europe, Africa, Canada and Middle
    East from October 2001 to November 2002. Prior to that,
    Mr. Hamm served as Vice President — Sales and
    Marketing of Biogen, Inc. from October 2000 to October 2001.
    Mr. Hamm previously served as Vice President —
    Manufacturing from June 1999 to October 2000, Director, Northern
    Europe and Distributors from November 1996 until June 1999 and
    Associate Director, Logistics from April 1994 until November
    1996. From 1987 until April 1994, Mr. Hamm held a variety
    of management positions at Syntex Laboratories Corporation,
    including Director of Operations and New Product Planning, and
    Manager of Materials, Logistics and Contract Manufacturing.
    Mr. Hamm is a director of Inhibitex, Inc.


 


    Hans Peter Hasler has served as our Executive Vice
    President, Global Neurology, Head of International since October
    2007 and has managed our international business since the
    merger. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Head of
    International from November 2003 to October 2007. He served as
    Executive Vice President — International of Biogen,
    Inc. from July 2003 until the merger, and joined Biogen, Inc as
    Executive Vice President — Commercial Operations in
    August 2001. Mr. Hasler joined Biogen, Inc. from
    Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Inc., an affiliate of American
    Home Products, Inc. (AHP), where he served as Senior Vice
    President, Head of Global Strategic Marketing from 1998 to 2001.
    Mr. Hasler was a member of the Wyeth/AHP Executive
    Committee and was chairman of the Commercial Council. From 1993
    to 1998, Mr. Hasler served in a variety of senior
    management capacities for Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals,
    including Managing Director of Wyeth Group, Germany, and General
    Manager of AHP/Wyeth in Switzerland and Central Eastern Europe.
    Prior to joining Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Mr. Hasler
    served as the Head of Pharma Division at Abbott AG.
    Mr. Hasler is a member of the Board of Directors of Orexo
    AB and Santhera Pharmaceuticals.


 


    Faheem Hasnain has served as our Executive Vice
    President, Oncology/Rheumatology Strategic Business Unit since
    October 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Hasnain served as Senior
    Vice President, Oncology Rheumatology Strategic Business Unit
    from February 2007 to October 2007 and as Senior Vice President,
    Oncology Strategic Business Unit from October 2004 to February
    2007. Prior to that, Mr. Hasnain served as President,
    Oncology Therapeutics Network at Bristol-Myers Squibb from March
    2002 to September 2004. From January 2001 to February 2002,
    Mr. Hasnain served as Vice President, Global eBusiness at
    GlaxoSmithKline and prior to 2000 served in key commercial and
    entrepreneurial roles within GlaxoSmithKline and its predecessor
    organizations, spanning global eBusiness, international
    commercial operations, sales and marketing.


 


    Michael F. MacLean is our Senior Vice President, Chief
    Accounting Officer and Controller and has served in that
    position since December 2006. Mr. MacLean joined us in
    October 2006 as Senior Vice President. Prior to joining us,
    Mr. MacLean was a managing director of Huron Consulting,
    where he provided support regarding financial reporting to
    management and boards of directors of Fortune
    500 companies. From June 2002 to October 2005,
    Mr. MacLean was a partner at KPMG and he was a partner of
    Arthur Andersen LLP from September 1999 to May 2002.


 


    Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D.  is our
    Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and
    Communications and has served in that position since October
    2007. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, Human
    Resources from November 2003 to October 2007. Dr. Schneier
    served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Biogen,
    Inc., a position he held from January 2003 until the merger. He
    joined Biogen, Inc. in 2001 as Senior Vice President, Strategic
    Organization Design and Effectiveness, after having served as an
    external



    
    27



Table of Contents




    consultant to us for eight years. Prior to joining Biogen, Inc.,
    Dr. Schneier was president of his own management consulting
    firm in Princeton, NJ, where he provided consulting services to
    over 70 of the Fortune 100 companies, as well as several of
    the largest European and Asian firms. Dr. Schneier held a
    tenured professorship at the University of Maryland’s Smith
    School of Business and has held teaching positions at the
    business schools of the University of Michigan, Columbia
    University, and at the Tuck School of Business, Dartmouth
    College.


 


    Mark C. Wiggins is our Executive Vice President,
    Corporate and Business Development and has served in that
    capacity since July 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Wiggins served
    as our Senior Vice President, Business Development from November
    2003 to July 2004, Vice President of Marketing and Business
    Development from November 2000 to November 2003, and Vice
    President of Business Development from May 1998 to November
    2000. From 1996 to 1998, he was Vice President of Business
    Development and Marketing for Hybridon. From 1986 to 1996 he
    held various positions of increasing responsibility at
    Schering-Plough Corporation, including Director of Business
    Development.



    
    28



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    We are
    substantially dependent on revenues from our two principal
    products


 


    Our current and future revenues depend substantially upon
    continued sales of our two principal products, AVONEX and
    RITUXAN, which represented approximately 88% of our total
    revenues in 2007. Any significant negative developments relating
    to these two products, such as safety or efficacy issues, the
    introduction or greater acceptance of competing products
    (including greater than anticipated substitution of TYSABRI for
    AVONEX) or adverse regulatory or legislative developments, would
    have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
    Although we have developed and continue to develop additional
    products for commercial introduction, we expect to be
    substantially dependent on sales from these two products for
    many years. A decline in sales from either of these two products
    would adversely affect our business.


 



    Our
    near-term success depends on the market acceptance and
    successful sales growth of TYSABRI


 


    A substantial portion of our growth in the near-term is
    dependent on anticipated sales of TYSABRI. TYSABRI is expected
    to diversify our product offerings and revenues, and to drive
    additional revenue growth over the next several years. If we are
    not successful in growing sales of TYSABRI, that would result in
    a significant reduction in diversification and expected
    revenues, and adversely affect our business.


 


    Achievement of anticipated sales growth of TYSABRI will depend
    upon its acceptance by the medical community and patients, which
    cannot be certain given the significant restrictions on use and
    the significant safety warnings in the label. Additional cases
    of the known side effect PML at a higher rate than indicated in
    the prescribing information, or the occurrence of other
    unexpected side effects could harm acceptance and limit TYSABRI
    sales. Any significant lack of acceptance of TYSABRI by the
    medical community or patients would materially and adversely
    affect our growth and our plans for the future.


 


    As a relatively new entrant to a maturing MS market, TYSABRI
    sales may be more sensitive to additional new competing
    products. A number of such products are expected to be approved
    for use in MS in the coming years. If these products have a
    similar or more attractive overall profile in terms of efficacy,
    convenience and safety, future sales of TYSABRI could be limited.


 



    Our
    business could be negatively affected as a result of a
    threatened proxy fight and other actions of activist
    shareholders


 


    We recently received a notice from Icahn Partners and certain of
    its affiliates nominating three individuals for election to our
    Board of Directors at the 2008 annual meeting and proposing to
    amend our bylaws to set the number of directors at twelve. If a
    proxy contest results from this notice, our business could be
    adversely affected because:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist
    shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our
    operations and diverting the attention of management and our
    employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in
    the loss of potential acquisitions, collaborations or
    in-licensing opportunities, and may make it more difficult to
    retain business partners; and




 



     
        • 

    
    If individuals are elected to our board of directors with a
    specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to
    effectively and timely implement our strategic plan.





 


    These actions could cause our stock price to experience periods
    of volatility.


 



    Our
    long-term success depends upon the successful development and
    commercialization of other products from our research and
    development activities


 


    Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the
    successful development and commercialization of other products
    from our research and development activities. Product
    development and commercialization are very expensive and involve
    a high degree of risk. Only a small number of research and
    development programs result in the commercialization of a
    product. Success in early stage clinical trials or preclinical
    work does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical
    trials will be successful. Even if later stage clinical trials
    are successful, the risk



    
    29



Table of Contents




    remains that unexpected concerns may arise from additional data
    or analysis or that obstacles may arise or issues may be
    identified in connection with review of clinical data with
    regulatory authorities or that regulatory authorities may
    disagree with our view of the data or require additional data or
    information or additional studies.


 


    Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and
    expensive process. Our ability to complete our clinical trials
    in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key
    factors including protocol design, regulatory and institutional
    review board approval, the rate of patient enrollment in
    clinical trials, and compliance with extensive current good
    clinical practice requirements. We have recently opened clinical
    sites and are enrolling patients in a number of new countries
    where our experience is more limited, and we are in many cases
    using the services of third-party contract clinical trial
    providers. If we fail to adequately manage the design, execution
    and regulatory aspects of our large, complex and diverse
    clinical trials, our studies and ultimately our regulatory
    approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our
    product candidates altogether.


 



    Adverse
    safety events can negatively affect our assets, product sales,
    operations and products in development


 


    Even after we receive marketing approval for a product, adverse
    event reports may have a negative impact on our
    commercialization efforts. Our voluntary withdrawal of TYSABRI
    from the market in February 2005 following reports of cases of
    PML resulted in a significant reduction in expected revenues as
    well as significant expense and management time required to
    address the legal and regulatory issues arising from the
    withdrawal, including revised labeling and enhanced risk
    management programs. Later discovery of safety issues with our
    products that were not known at the time of their approval by
    the FDA could cause product liability events, additional
    regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional labeling,
    withdrawal of products from the market and the imposition of
    fines or criminal penalties. Any of these actions could result
    in, among other things, material write-offs of inventory and
    impairments of intangible assets, goodwill and fixed assets.


 



    If we
    fail to compete effectively, our business and market position
    would suffer


 


    The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry is intensely
    competitive. We compete in the marketing and sale of our
    products, the development of new products and processes, the
    acquisition of rights to new products with commercial potential
    and the hiring and retention of personnel. We compete with
    biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have a greater
    number of products on the market, greater financial and other
    resources and other technological or competitive advantages. We
    cannot be certain that one or more of our competitors will not
    receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely
    affects our product development or business, will not benefit
    from significantly greater sales and marketing capabilities, or
    will not develop products that are accepted more widely than
    ours. The introduction of alternatives to our products that
    offer advantages in efficacy, safety or ease of use could
    negatively affect our revenues and reduce the value of our
    product development efforts. In addition, potential governmental
    action in the future could provide a means for competition from
    developers of follow-on biologics, which could compete on price
    and differentiation with products that we now or could in the
    future market.


 


    In addition to competing directly with products that are
    marketed by substantial pharmaceutical competitors, AVONEX,
    RITUXAN and TYSABRI also face competition from off-label uses of
    drugs approved for other indications. Some of our current
    competitors are also working to develop alternative formulations
    for delivery of their products, which may in the future compete
    with ours.



    
    30



Table of Contents



 



    We
    depend on collaborators for both product and royalty revenue and
    the clinical development of future collaboration products, which
    are outside of our full control


 


    Collaborations between companies on products or programs are a
    common business practice in the biotechnology industry.
    Out-licensing typically allows a partner to collect up front
    payments and future milestone payments, share the costs of
    clinical development and risk of failure at various points, and
    access sales and marketing infrastructure and expertise in
    exchange for certain financial rights to the product or program
    going to the in-licensing partner. In addition, the obligation
    of in-licensees to pay royalties or share profits generally
    terminates upon expiration of the related patents. We have a
    number of collaborators and partners, and have both in-licensed
    and out-licensed several products and programs. These
    collaborations include several risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we are not fully in control of the royalty or profit sharing
    revenues we receive from collaborators, and we cannot be certain
    of the timing or potential impact of factors including patent
    expirations, pricing or health care reforms, other legal and
    regulatory developments, failure of our partners to comply with
    applicable laws and regulatory requirements, the introduction of
    competitive products, and new indication approvals which may
    affect the sales of collaboration products;




 



     
        • 

    
    where we copromote and co-market products with our collaboration
    partners, any failure on their part to comply with applicable
    laws in the sale and marketing of our products could have an
    adverse effect on our revenues as well as involve us in possible
    legal proceedings; and




 



     
        • 

    
    collaborations often require the parties to cooperate, and
    failure to do so effectively could have an impact on product
    sales by our collaborators and partners, as well as an impact on
    the clinical development of shared products or programs under
    joint control.





 


    In addition, the successful development and commercialization of
    new anti-CD20 product candidates in our collaboration with
    Genentech (which also includes RITUXAN) will decrease our
    participation in the operating profits from the collaboration
    (including as to RITUXAN).


 



    We
    depend, to a significant extent, on reimbursement from third
    party payors and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement
    could negatively affect our product sales and
    revenue


 


    Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on the
    availability and extent of reimbursement from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. U.S. and foreign government regulations
    mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to
    our products impact our business and our future results could be
    adversely affected by changes in such regulations.


 


    In the U.S., at both the federal and state levels, the
    government regularly proposes legislation to reform healthcare
    and its cost, any of which may impact our ability to
    successfully commercialize our products. In the last few years,
    there have been a number of legislative changes that have
    affected the reimbursement for our products, including, but not
    limited to, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
    Modernization Act of 2003 and most recently, the Deficit
    Reduction Act of 2005. The Deficit Reduction Act made
    significant changes to the Medicaid prescription drug provisions
    of the Social Security Act, including changes that impose the
    monthly reporting of price information and that may have an
    impact on the Medicaid rebates we pay. In addition, states may
    more aggressively seek Medicaid rebates as a result of
    legislation enacted in 2006, which rebate activity could
    adversely affect our results of operations.


 


    Pricing pressures in the U.S. may increase as a result of
    the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act
    of 2003. Managed care organizations as well as Medicaid and
    other government health administration authorities continue to
    seek price discounts. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid
    expenses may continue to increase the use of managed care
    organizations. This may result in managed care organizations
    influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the
    population and a corresponding constraint on prices and
    reimbursement for our products. In addition, some states have
    implemented and other states are considering price controls or
    patient-access constraints under the Medicaid program and some
    states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to
    broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid
    eligible. Other matters also could be the subject of
    U.S. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that
    could adversely affect our business, including the importation
    of prescription drugs that are marketed outside the
    U.S. and sold at lower prices as a result of drug price
    limitations imposed by the governments of various foreign
    countries.



    
    31



Table of Contents



 


    We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most
    other countries. In the EU and some other international markets,
    the government provides health care at low cost to consumers and
    regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility or
    reimbursement levels to control costs for the
    government-sponsored health care system. This international
    patchwork of price regulations may lead to inconsistent prices.
    Within the EU and other countries, some third party trade in our
    products occurs from markets with lower prices thereby
    undermining our sales in some markets with higher prices.
    Additionally, certain countries reference the prices in other
    countries where our products are marketed. Thus, inability to
    secure adequate prices in a particular country may also impair
    our ability to obtain acceptable prices in existing and
    potential new markets. This may create the opportunity for the
    third party cross border trade previously mentioned or our
    decision not to sell the product thus affecting our geographic
    expansion plans.


 


    When a new medical product is approved, the availability of
    government and private reimbursement for that product is
    uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be
    reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of
    reimbursement for our product candidates.


 



    If we
    do not successfully execute our strategy of growth through the
    acquisition, partnering and in-licensing of products,
    technologies or companies, our future performance could be
    adversely affected


 


    In addition to the expansion of our pipeline through spending on
    internal development projects, we plan to grow through external
    growth opportunities, which include the acquisition, partnering
    and in-licensing of products, technologies and companies or the
    entry into strategic alliances and collaborations. If we are
    unable to complete or manage these external growth opportunities
    successfully, we will not be able to grow our business in the
    way that we currently expect. The availability of high quality
    opportunities is limited and we are not certain that we will be
    able to identify suitable candidates or complete transactions on
    terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, even if we are
    able to successfully identify and complete acquisitions, we may
    not be able to integrate them or take full advantage of them and
    therefore may not realize the benefits that we expect. If we are
    unsuccessful in our external growth program, we may not be able
    to grow our business significantly and we may incur asset
    impairment charges as a result of acquisitions that are not
    successful.


 



    Our
    business is subject to extensive governmental regulation and
    oversight and changes in laws could adversely affect our
    revenues and profitability


 


    Our business is in a highly regulated industry. As a result,
    governmental actions may adversely affect our business,
    operations or financial condition, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new
    interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions,
    related to health care availability, method of delivery and
    payment for health care products and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes
    that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and
    result in lost market opportunity;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require
    additional safety monitoring after the introduction of our
    products to market, which could increase our costs of doing
    business and adversely affect the future permitted uses of
    approved products;




 



     
        • 

    
    new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing
    or marketing; and




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the tax laws relating to our operations.





 


    The enactment in the U.S. of the Medicare Prescription Drug
    Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, possible legislation
    which could ease the entry of competing follow-on biologics in
    the marketplace, and importation of lower-cost competing drugs
    from other jurisdictions are examples of changes and possible
    changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. In
    addition, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of
    2007 included new authorization for the FDA to require
    post-market safety monitoring, along with a clinical trials
    registry, and expanded authority for FDA to impose civil
    monetary penalties on companies that fail to meet certain
    commitments.



    
    32



Table of Contents





    If we
    fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory
    requirements affecting the healthcare industry, we could face
    increased costs, penalties and a loss of business


 


    Our activities, including the sale and marketing of our
    products, are subject to extensive government regulation and
    oversight both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions.
    Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target
    of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government
    regulation, including claims asserting submission of incorrect
    pricing information, impermissible off-label promotion of
    pharmaceutical products, causing false claims to be submitted
    for government reimbursement as well as antitrust violations, or
    other violations related to environmental matters. Violations of
    governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil
    sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and
    exclusion from participation in government programs. In addition
    to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be
    required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or
    pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have
    miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the
    government Whether or not we have complied with the law, an
    investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our
    expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and
    attention and adversely affect our business.


 


    The federal Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback law prohibits
    payments intended to induce any entity either to purchase,
    order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase of healthcare
    products or services paid for under federal health care
    programs. There are similar laws in a number of states. These
    laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional
    activities of manufacturers of drugs and biologics, such as us,
    by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales
    programs, with hospitals, physicians, and other potential
    purchasers of drugs and biologics. Other federal and state laws
    generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly
    presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from
    federal health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, or
    other third party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are
    for items or services that were not provided as claimed.
    Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal
    penalties for noncompliance that can be substantial, including
    the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs
    (including Medicare and Medicaid).


 



    Problems
    with manufacturing or with inventory planning could result in
    our inability to deliver products, inventory shortages or
    surpluses, product recalls and increased costs


 


    We manufacture and expect to continue to manufacture our own
    commercial requirements of bulk AVONEX and TYSABRI. Our products
    are difficult to manufacture and problems in our manufacturing
    processes can occur. Our inability to successfully manufacture
    bulk product and to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals of
    our manufacturing facilities would harm our ability to produce
    timely sufficient quantities of commercial supplies of AVONEX
    and TYSABRI to meet demand. Problems with manufacturing
    processes could result in product defects or manufacturing
    failures that could require us to delay shipment of products or
    recall or withdraw products previously shipped, which could
    result in inventory write-offs and impair our ability to expand
    into new markets or supply products in existing markets. In the
    past, we have had to write down and incur other charges and
    expenses for products that failed to meet specifications.
    Similar charges may occur in the future. In addition, lower than
    expected demand for our products, including suspension of sales,
    or a change in product mix may result in less than optimal
    utilization of our manufacturing facilities and lower inventory
    turnover, which could result in abnormal manufacturing variance
    charges, facility impairment charges and charges for excess and
    obsolete inventory.


 


    We rely solely on our manufacturing facility in Research
    Triangle Park, North Carolina, or RTP, for the production of
    TYSABRI. We plan on applying to the FDA and EMEA for approval of
    a production process, known as a second generation high-titer
    process, which yields much higher concentrations of TYSABRI than
    the process we currently use. If we do not obtain approval for
    that process, to meet anticipated demand for TYSABRI, we would
    need to increase our capital spending to add capacity at our RTP
    manufacturing facility and at the Hillerod, Denmark facility we
    are completing. Such an increase in capital spending would
    affect our business, cash position and results of operations.


 


    If we cannot produce sufficient commercial requirements of bulk
    product to meet demand, we would need to rely on third party
    contract manufacturers, of which there are only a limited number
    capable of manufacturing bulk products of the type we require.
    We cannot be certain that we could reach agreement on reasonable
    terms, if at all,



    
    33



Table of Contents




    with those manufacturers. Even if we were to reach agreement,
    the transition of the manufacturing process to a third party to
    enable commercial supplies could take a significant amount of
    time. Our ability to supply products in sufficient capacity to
    meet demand is also dependent upon third party contractors to
    fill-finish, package and store such products. Any prolonged
    interruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing
    facilities could result in cancellations of shipments or loss of
    product in the process of being manufactured. Because our
    manufacturing processes are highly complex and are subject to a
    lengthy FDA approval process, alternative qualified production
    capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all.


 



    We
    rely on third parties to provide services in connection with the
    manufacture of our products and, in some instances, the
    manufacture of the product itself


 


    We rely on Genentech for all RITUXAN manufacturing. Genentech
    relies on a third party to manufacture certain bulk RITUXAN
    requirements. If Genentech or any third party upon which it
    relies does not manufacture or fill-finish RITUXAN in sufficient
    quantities and on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if
    Genentech or any third party does not obtain and maintain all
    required manufacturing approvals, our business could be harmed.


 


    We also source all of our fill-finish and the majority of our
    final product storage operations, along with a substantial
    portion of our packaging operations of the components used with
    our products, to a concentrated group of third party
    contractors. The manufacture of products and product components,
    fill-finish, packaging and storage of our products require
    successful coordination among us and multiple third party
    providers. Our inability to coordinate these efforts, the lack
    of capacity available at a third party contractor or any other
    problems with the operations of these third party contractors
    could require us to delay shipment of saleable products, recall
    products previously shipped or impair our ability to supply
    products at all. This could increase our costs, cause us to lose
    revenue or market share, diminish our profitability and damage
    our reputation. Any third party we use to fill-finish, package
    or store our products to be sold in the U.S. must be
    licensed by the FDA. As a result, alternative third party
    providers may not be readily available on a timely basis.


 


    Due to the unique nature of the production of our products,
    there are several single source providers of raw materials. We
    make every effort to qualify new vendors and to develop
    contingency plans so that production is not impacted by
    short-term issues associated with single source providers.
    Nonetheless, our business could be materially impacted by long
    term or chronic issues associated with single source providers.


 



    If we
    fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental
    regulation in the manufacture of our products, we could incur
    substantial remedial costs and a reduction in
    sales


 


    We and our third party providers are generally required to
    maintain compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or
    cGMP, and are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable
    agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Any
    changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of
    manufacturing require amending our application to the FDA and
    acceptance of the change by the FDA prior to release of product
    to the marketplace. Our inability, or the inability of our third
    party service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cGMP compliance
    could require us to withdraw or recall product and interrupt
    commercial supply of our products. Any delay, interruption or
    other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish,
    packaging, or storage of our products as a result of a failure
    of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third
    parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection could
    significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize
    our products. This non-compliance could increase our costs,
    cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage our
    reputation.


 



    We
    have made a significant investment in constructing a
    manufacturing facility the success of which depends upon the
    completion and licensing of the facility and continued demand
    for our products


 


    We are building a large-scale biologic manufacturing facility in
    Hillerod, Denmark, in which we have invested approximately
    $300 million. We anticipate that the facility will be ready
    for commercial production in 2009. If we fail to manage the
    project, or other unforeseen events occur, we may incur
    additional costs to complete the project. Depending on the
    timing of the completion and licensing of the facility, and our
    other estimates and assumptions regarding future product sales,
    the carrying value of all or part of the manufacturing facility
    or other assets may not be fully recoverable and could result in
    the recognition of an impairment in the carrying value at the
    time that such



    
    34



Table of Contents




    effects are identified. The recognition of impairment in the
    carrying value, if any, could have a material and adverse affect
    on our results of operations. For example, if the anticipated
    demand for TYSABRI does not materialize, the carrying values of
    our Hillerod, Denmark facility could be impaired, which would
    negatively impact our results of operations.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel and key
    relationships, the growth of our business could be
    harmed


 


    Our success will depend, to a great extent, upon our ability to
    attract and retain qualified scientific, manufacturing, sales
    and marketing and executive personnel and our ability to develop
    and maintain relationships with qualified clinical researchers
    and key distributors. Competition for these people and
    relationships is intense and we compete with numerous
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as with
    universities and
    non-profit
    research organizations. Any inability we experience to continue
    to attract and retain qualified personnel or develop and
    maintain key relationships could have an adverse effect on our
    ability to accomplish our research, development and external
    growth objectives.


 



    Our
    sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally


 


    We are increasing our presence in international markets, which
    subjects us to many risks, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    economic problems that disrupt foreign healthcare payment
    systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    the imposition of governmental controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    the inability to obtain any necessary foreign regulatory or
    pricing approvals of products in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade
    restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in tax laws and tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing international
    operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles.





 


    Our operations and marketing practices are also subject to
    regulation and scrutiny by the governments of the other
    countries in which we operate. In addition, the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits U.S. companies and their
    representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making
    payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or
    retaining business abroad. In many countries, the healthcare
    professionals we regularly interact with meet the definition of
    a foreign official for purposes of the FCPA. Additionally, we
    are subject to other U.S. laws in our international
    operations. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws
    could result in various adverse consequences, including possible
    delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls,
    seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market,
    and/or the
    imposition of civil or criminal sanctions.


 


    A portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than
    our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. We recognize
    foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in
    the period in which we incur those gains or losses. As a result,
    currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the
    currencies in which we do business will affect our operating
    results, often in unpredictable ways.


 



    Our
    operating results are subject to significant
    fluctuations


 


    Our quarterly revenues, expenses and net income (loss) have
    fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly
    in the future due to the timing of charges and expenses that we
    may take. In recent periods, for instance, we have recorded
    charges that include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    acquired in-process research and development at the time we make
    an acquisition;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairments that we are required to take with respect to
    investments;






    
    35



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    impairments that we are required to take with respect to fixed
    assets, including those that are recorded in connection with the
    sale of fixed assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    Inventory write-downs for failed quality specifications, charges
    for excess
    and/or
    obsolete inventory and charges for inventory write downs
    relating to product suspensions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the cost of restructurings.





 


    Additionally, net income may fluctuate due to the impact of
    charges we may be required to take with respect to foreign
    currency hedge transactions. In particular, we may incur higher
    charges from hedge ineffectiveness than we expect or from the
    termination of a hedge relationship.


 


    These examples are only illustrative and other risks, including
    those discussed in these “Risk Factors,” could also
    cause fluctuations in our reported earnings. In addition, our
    operating results during any one quarter do not necessarily
    suggest the anticipated results of future quarters.


 



    If we
    are unable to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual
    property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our
    development efforts or our acquired technology


 


    We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and
    various other countries seeking protection of inventions
    originating from our research and development, including a
    number of our processes and products. Patents have been issued
    on many of these applications. We have also obtained rights to
    various patents and patent applications under licenses with
    third parties, which provide for the payment of royalties by us.
    The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded
    to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the
    U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and
    is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the
    patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. Our
    patents may not afford us substantial protection or commercial
    benefit. Similarly, our pending patent applications or patent
    applications licensed from third parties may not ultimately be
    granted as patents and we may not prevail if patents that have
    been issued to us are challenged in court. In addition, pending
    legislation to reform the patent system could also reduce our
    ability to enforce our patents. We do not know when, or if,
    changes to the U.S. patent system will become law. If we
    are unable to protect our intellectual property rights and
    prevent others from exploiting our inventions, we will not
    derive the benefit from them that we currently expect.


 



    If our
    products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we
    may incur damages and be required to incur the expense of
    obtaining a license


 


    A substantial number of patents have already been issued to
    other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. Competitors
    may have filed applications for, or have been issued patents and
    may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that may
    relate to products or processes competitive with or similar to
    our products and processes. Moreover, the patent laws of the
    U.S. and foreign countries are distinct and decisions as to
    patenting, validity of patents and infringement of patents may
    be resolved differently in different countries. In general, we
    obtain licenses to third party patents that we deem necessary or
    desirable for the manufacture, use and sale of our products. We
    are currently unable to assess the extent to which we may wish
    or be required to acquire rights under such patents and the
    availability and cost of acquiring such rights, or whether a
    license to such patents will be available on acceptable terms or
    at all. There may be patents in the U.S. or in foreign
    countries or patents issued in the future that are unavailable
    to license on acceptable terms. Our inability to obtain such
    licenses may hinder our ability to manufacture and market our
    products.


 



    Uncertainty
    over intellectual property in the biotechnology industry has
    been the source of litigation, which is inherently costly and
    unpredictable


 


    We are aware that others, including various universities and
    companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent
    applications and have been granted patents in the U.S. and
    in other countries claiming subject matter potentially useful to
    our business. Some of those patents and patent applications
    claim only specific products or methods of making such products,
    while others claim more general processes or techniques useful
    or now used in the biotechnology industry. There is considerable
    uncertainty within the biotechnology industry about the
    validity,



    
    36



Table of Contents




    scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the
    U.S. and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, there is no
    consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in
    biotechnology patents. We cannot currently determine the
    ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to
    third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted
    to be infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products.


 


    There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be,
    significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and
    other intellectual property rights. Litigation and
    administrative proceedings concerning patents and other
    intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and
    distracting to management. Competitors may sue us as a way of
    delaying the introduction of our products. Any litigation,
    including any interference proceedings to determine priority of
    inventions, oppositions to patents in foreign countries or
    litigation against our partners, may be costly and time
    consuming and could harm our business. We expect that litigation
    may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and
    scope of certain of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be
    necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope
    and/or
    noninfringement of certain patent rights claimed by third
    parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our
    products. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could
    adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other
    proprietary rights, or, conversely, hinder our ability to
    manufacture and market our products.


 



    Pending
    and future product liability claims may adversely affect our
    business and our reputation


 


    The administration of drugs in humans, whether in clinical
    studies or commercially, carries the inherent risk of product
    liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause
    of an injury. Our products or product candidates may cause, or
    may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug
    interactions, and we may not learn about or understand those
    effects until the product or product candidate has been
    administered to patients for a prolonged period of time. For
    example, lawsuits have been filed by patients who have had
    serious adverse events while using TYSABRI, and we may face
    lawsuits with other product liability and related claims by
    patients treated with TYSABRI or other products.


 


    We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any
    pending or future litigation. We may not be successful in
    defending ourselves in the litigation and, as a result, our
    business could be materially harmed. These lawsuits may result
    in large judgments or settlements against us, any of which could
    have a negative effect on our financial condition and business.
    Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive to defend, whether or
    not they have merit, and the defense of these actions may divert
    the attention of our management and other resources that would
    otherwise be engaged in managing our business.


 



    We
    have recently incurred substantial indebtedness that could
    adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for
    or respond to changes in our business


 


    We have recently incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness
    and we may also incur additional debt in the future. This
    indebtedness could have significant consequences to our
    business, for example, it could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby
    reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes,
    including business development efforts and mergers and
    acquisitions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby
    placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that may have less debt.





 



    Our
    business involves environmental risks, which include the cost of
    compliance and the risk of contamination or injury


 


    Our business and the business of several of our strategic
    partners, including Genentech and Elan, involve the controlled
    use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive
    compounds. Biologics manufacturing is extremely susceptible to
    product loss due to contamination, material equipment failure,
    or vendor or operator error. Although we believe that our safety
    procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply
    with state and



    
    37



Table of Contents




    federal standards, there will always be the risk of accidental
    contamination or injury. In addition, microbial or viral
    contamination may cause the closure of a manufacturing facility
    for an extended period of time. By law, radioactive materials
    may only be disposed of at state-approved facilities. We
    currently store radioactive materials from our California
    laboratory
    on-site
    because the approval of a disposal site in California for all
    California-based companies has been delayed indefinitely. If and
    when a disposal site is approved, we may incur substantial costs
    related to the disposal of these materials. If we were to become
    liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended
    facility shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages and
    penalties that could harm our business. Biologics manufacturing
    also requires permits from government agencies for water supply
    and wastewater discharge. If we do not obtain appropriate
    permits, or permits for sufficient quantities of water and
    wastewater, we could incur significant costs and limits on our
    manufacturing volumes that could harm our business.


 



    Our
    investments in marketable securities are significant and are
    subject to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce
    their value


 


    We maintain a significant portfolio of investments in marketable
    securities. Our earnings may be adversely affected by changes in
    the value of this portfolio. In particular, the value of our
    investments may be adversely affected by increases in interest
    rates, downgrades in the corporate bonds included in the
    portfolio and by other factors which may result in other than
    temporary declines in value of the investments. Each of these
    events may cause us to record charges to reduce the carrying
    value of our investment portfolio.


 



    We may
    incur liabilities to tax authorities in excess of amounts that
    have been accrued


 


    The preparation of our financial statements requires estimates
    of the amount of tax that will become payable in each of the
    jurisdictions in which we operate. Accordingly, we determine our
    estimated liability for federal, state and local taxes (in the
    U.S.) and in many overseas jurisdictions. Our previous tax
    filings may be challenged by any of these taxing authorities
    and, in the event that we are not able to defend our position,
    we may incur unanticipated liabilities and such amounts could be
    significant. The jurisdictions in which we are subject to
    taxation may enact or change laws that would adversely impact
    the rate at which we are taxed in future periods. Such actions
    could result in an additional income tax provision.


 



    Several
    aspects of our corporate governance and our collaboration
    agreements may discourage a third party from attempting to
    acquire us


 


    Several factors might discourage a takeover attempt that could
    be viewed as beneficial to stockholders who wish to receive a
    premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a
    business combination with an interested stockholder for a period
    of three years after the date of the transaction in which the
    person became an interested stockholder, unless the business
    combination is approved in the manner prescribed in
    Section 203;




 



     
        • 

    
    our stockholder rights plan is designed to cause substantial
    dilution to a person who attempts to acquire us on terms not
    approved by our board of directors;




 



     
        • 

    
    our board of directors has the authority to issue, without a
    vote or action of stockholders, up to 8,000,000 shares of
    preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and
    privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to
    the rights of holders of common stock;




 



     
        • 

    
    our collaboration agreement with Elan provides Elan with the
    option to buy the rights to TYSABRI in the event that we undergo
    a change of control, which may limit our attractiveness to
    potential acquirers;




 



     
        • 

    
    our amended and restated collaboration agreement with Genentech
    provides that, in the event we undergo a change of control,
    within 90 days Genentech may present an offer to us to
    purchase our rights to RITUXAN. Recently, in an arbitration
    proceeding brought by Biogen Idec relating to the collaboration
    agreement, Genentech alleged for the first time that the
    November 2003 transaction in which Idec acquired Biogen and
    became Biogen Idec constituted such a change of control, an
    assertion with which we strongly disagree. It is our position
    that the Biogen Idec merger did not constitute a change of
    control under our agreement with






    
    38



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    Genentech and that, even if it did, Genentech’s rights
    under the change of control provision have long since expired.
    We intend to vigorously assert our position if Genentech
    persists in making this claim. If the arbitrators decide this
    issue in favor of Genentech, or if a change of control were to
    occur in the future and Genentech were to present an offer for
    the RITUXAN rights, we must either accept Genentech’s offer
    or purchase Genentech’s rights to RITUXAN on the same terms
    as its offer. If Genentech presents such an offer, then they
    will be deemed concurrently to have exercised a right, in
    exchange for a share in the operating profits or net sales in
    the U.S. of any other anti-CD 20 products developed under
    the agreement, to purchase our interest in each such product.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the
    entire board from being replaced in any single year; and




 



     
        • 

    
    advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for
    election as a director and for proposals to be brought before an
    annual meeting of stockholders.





 




    
    



    
    Item 1B