Item 1A — Risk Factors” entitled
    “We have made a significant investment in constructing a
    manufacturing facility the success of which depends upon the
    completion and licensing of the facility and continued demand
    for our products.”


 


    We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final
    product storage operations for our products, along with a
    substantial part of our packaging operations, to a concentrated
    group of third party contractors. Many of the raw materials and
    supplies required for the production of AVONEX, TYSABRI,
    FUMADERM, ZEVALIN and AMEVIVE are available from various
    suppliers in quantities adequate to meet our needs. However, due
    to the unique nature of the production of our products, we do
    have single source providers of several raw materials. We make
    efforts to qualify new vendors and to develop contingency plans
    so that production is not impacted by short-term issues
    associated with single source providers. Each of our third party
    service providers, suppliers and manufacturers are subject to
    continuing inspection by the FDA or comparable agencies in other
    jurisdictions. Any delay, interruption or other issues that
    arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of
    our products, including as a result of a failure of our
    facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to
    pass any regulatory agency inspection, could significantly
    impair our ability to sell our products.


 


    While we believe that our existing manufacturing facilities and
    outside sources will allow us to meet our near-term and
    long-term manufacturing needs for our current commercial
    products and our other products currently in clinical trials,
    additional manufacturing facilities and outside sources may be
    required to meet our long-term research, development and
    commercial production needs. See the sections of
    “Item 1A — Risk Factors” entitled
    “Problems with manufacturing or with inventory planning
    could result in our inability to deliver products, inventory
    shortages or surpluses, product recalls and increased
    costs”, “We rely on third parties to provide services
    in connection with the manufacture of our products and, in some
    instances, the manufacture of the product itself,” and
    “If we fail to meet the stringent requirements of
    governmental regulation in the manufacture of our products, we
    could incur substantial remedial costs and a reduction in
    sales.”


 



    Our
    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately
    4,700 employees.


 



    Our
    Executive Officers


 


    The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages as
    of February 6, 2009 and their principal positions.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    James C. Mullen



 

 


    50

 


 


    Chief Executive Officer and President





    Cecil B. Pickett, Ph.D. 



 

 


    63

 


 


    President, Research and Development





    Hans Peter Hasler



 

 


    53

 


 


    Chief Operating Officer





    Susan H. Alexander, Esq. 



 

 


    52

 


 


    Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary





    Paul J. Clancy



 

 


    47

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer





    Robert A. Hamm



 

 


    57

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations &
    Technology





    Michael F. MacLean



 

 


    43

 


 


    Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer





    Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D. 



 

 


    61

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and
    Communications









    
    20



Table of Contents




    Reference to “our” or “us” in the following
    descriptions of the background of our executive officers include
    Biogen Idec and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation.


 


    James C. Mullen is our Chief Executive Officer and
    President and is a director, and has served in these positions
    since the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation, or the merger, in November 2003.
    Mr. Mullen was formerly Chairman of the Board and Chief
    Executive Officer of Biogen, Inc. He was named Chairman of the
    Board of Directors of Biogen, Inc. in July 2002, after being
    named Chief Executive Officer and President of Biogen, Inc. in
    June 2000. Mr. Mullen joined Biogen, Inc. in 1989 as
    Director, Facilities and Engineering. He was named Biogen,
    Inc.’s Vice President, Operations in 1992. From 1996 to
    1999, Mr. Mullen served as Vice President, International,
    with responsibility for building all Biogen, Inc. operations
    outside North America. From 1984 to 1988, Mr. Mullen held
    various positions at SmithKline Beckman Corporation (now
    GlaxoSmithKline plc). Mr. Mullen is a member of the board
    of directors and executive committee of the Biotechnology
    Industry Organization, or BIO, and is a former chairman of the
    board of BIO. Mr. Mullen is also a director of PerkinElmer,
    Inc.


 


    Cecil B. Pickett Ph.D. is our President, Research and
    Development and has served in that position since September 2006
    and has served as one of our directors since September 2006.
    Prior to joining Biogen Idec, he was Corporate Senior Vice
    President and President, Schering-Plough Research Institute from
    March 2002 to September 2006, and before that he was Executive
    VP of Discovery Research at Schering-Plough Corporation from
    September 1993 to March 2002. Mr. Pickett is a member of
    the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
    Mr. Pickett is a director of Zimmer Holdings, Inc.


 


    Hans Peter Hasler has served as our Chief Operating
    Officer since May 2008, served as our Executive Vice President,
    Global Neurology, Head of International from October 2007 to May
    2008, and has managed our international business since the
    merger. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Head of
    International from November 2003 to October 2007. He served as
    Executive Vice President — International of Biogen,
    Inc. from July 2003 until the merger, and joined Biogen, Inc as
    Executive Vice President — Commercial Operations in
    August 2001. Mr. Hasler joined Biogen, Inc. from
    Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Inc., an affiliate of American
    Home Products, Inc. (AHP), where he served as Senior Vice
    President, Head of Global Strategic Marketing from 1998 to 2001.
    Mr. Hasler was a member of the Wyeth/AHP Executive
    Committee and was chairman of the Commercial Council. From 1993
    to 1998, Mr. Hasler served in a variety of senior
    management capacities for Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals,
    including Managing Director of Wyeth Group, Germany, and General
    Manager of Wyeth/AHP in Switzerland and Central Eastern Europe.
    Prior to joining Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Mr. Hasler
    served as the Head of Pharma Division at Abbott AG.
    Mr. Hasler is a director of Acino Holding AG and Santhera
    Pharmaceuticals Holding AG.


 


    Susan H. Alexander is our Executive Vice President,
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and has served in these
    positions since January 2006. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander
    served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Corporate Secretary of PAREXEL International Corporation since
    September 2003. From June 2001 to September 2003,
    Ms. Alexander served as General Counsel of IONA
    Technologies. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander served as
    Counsel at Cabot Corporation from January 1995 to May 2001.
    Prior to that, Ms. Alexander was a partner at the law firms
    of Hinckley, Allen & Snyder and Fine &
    Ambrogne.


 


    Paul J. Clancy is our Executive Vice President, Finance
    and Chief Financial Officer and has served in that position
    since August 2007. Mr. Clancy joined Biogen Idec in 2001,
    and has held several senior executive positions, including Vice
    President of Business Planning, Portfolio Management and
    U.S. Marketing, and Senior Vice President of Finance with
    responsibilities for leading the Treasury, Tax, Investor
    Relations and Business Planning groups. Prior to joining Biogen
    Idec, he spent 13 years at PepsiCo, serving in a range of
    financial and general management positions.


 


    Robert A. Hamm is our Executive Vice President,
    Pharmaceutical Operations & Technology, and has served
    in that position since October 2007. Previously, Mr. Hamm
    served as Senior Vice President, Neurology Strategic Business
    Unit from January 2006 to October 2007; Senior Vice President,
    Immunology Business Unit from the merger in November 2003 until
    January 2006; and in the same capacity with Biogen, Inc. from
    November 2002 to November 2003. Before that, he served as Senior
    Vice President — Europe, Africa, Canada and Middle
    East from October 2001 to November 2002. Prior to that,
    Mr. Hamm served as Vice President — Sales and
    Marketing of



    
    21



Table of Contents




    Biogen, Inc. from October 2000 to October 2001. Mr. Hamm
    previously served as Vice President — Manufacturing
    from June 1999 to October 2000, Director, Northern Europe and
    Distributors from November 1996 until June 1999 and Associate
    Director, Logistics from April 1994 until November 1996. From
    1987 until April 1994, Mr. Hamm held a variety of
    management positions at Syntex Laboratories Corporation,
    including Director of Operations and New Product Planning, and
    Manager of Materials, Logistics and Contract Manufacturing.
    Mr. Hamm is a director of Inhibitex, Inc. and Progenitor
    Cell Therapy, LLC.


 


    Michael F. MacLean is our Senior Vice President and Chief
    Accounting Officer and has served in that position since
    December 2006. Mr. MacLean joined us in October 2006 as
    Senior Vice President. Prior to joining us, Mr. MacLean was
    a managing director of Huron Consulting, where he provided
    support regarding financial reporting to management and boards
    of directors of Fortune 500 companies. From June 2002 to
    October 2005, Mr. MacLean was a partner at KPMG and he was
    a partner of Arthur Andersen LLP from September 1999 to
    May 2002.


 


    Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D. is our Executive Vice
    President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and Communications
    and has served in that position since October 2007. Prior to
    that he was Executive Vice President, Human Resources from
    November 2003 to October 2007. Mr. Schneier served as
    Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Biogen, Inc., a
    position he held from January 2003 until the merger. He joined
    Biogen, Inc. in 2001 as Senior Vice President, Strategic
    Organization Design and Effectiveness, after having served as an
    external consultant to us for eight years. Prior to joining
    Biogen, Inc., Mr. Schneier was president of his own
    management consulting firm in Princeton, NJ, where he provided
    consulting services to over 70 of the Fortune
    100 companies, as well as several of the largest European
    and Asian firms. Mr. Schneier held a tenured professorship
    at the University of Maryland’s Smith School of Business
    and has held teaching positions at the business schools of the
    University of Michigan, Columbia University, and at the Tuck
    School of Business, Dartmouth College.



    
    22



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    We are
    substantially dependent on revenues from our two principal
    products.


 


    Our current and future revenues depend substantially upon
    continued sales of our two principal products, AVONEX and
    RITUXAN, which represented approximately 81% of our total
    revenues in 2008. Any significant negative developments relating
    to these two products, such as safety or efficacy issues, the
    introduction or greater acceptance of competing products or
    adverse regulatory or legislative developments, would have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although
    we have developed and continue to develop additional products
    for commercial introduction, we expect to be substantially
    dependent on sales from these two products for many years. A
    decline in sales from either of these two products would
    adversely affect our business.


 



    Our
    near-term success depends on the market acceptance and
    successful sales growth of TYSABRI.


 


    A substantial portion of our growth in the near-term is
    dependent on anticipated sales of TYSABRI. TYSABRI is expected
    to diversify our product offerings and revenues, and to drive
    additional revenue growth over the next several years. If we are
    not successful in growing sales of TYSABRI, it would result in a
    significant reduction in diversification and expected revenues
    and adversely affect our business.


 


    Achievement of anticipated sales growth of TYSABRI will depend
    upon its acceptance by the medical community and patients, which
    cannot be certain given the significant restrictions on use and
    the significant safety warnings in the label. Since the
    reintroduction of TYSABRI in the United States and its
    introduction in the European Union in July 2006, we have
    disclosed five confirmed cases of PML, a known side effect, in
    patients taking TYSABRI. The occurrence of PML or the occurrence
    of other side effects could harm acceptance and limit TYSABRI
    sales or result in a withdrawal of TYSABRI from the market.
    Additional regulatory restrictions on the use of TYSABRI and
    safety-related labeling changes, whether as a result of reports
    of cases of PML or otherwise, may significantly reduce expected
    revenues and require significant expense and management time to
    address the associated legal and regulatory issues, including
    enhanced risk management programs. A significant reduction in
    the acceptance of TYSABRI by the medical community or patients
    would materially and adversely affect our growth and our plans
    for the future.


 


    As a relatively new entrant to a maturing MS market, TYSABRI
    sales may be more sensitive to additional new competing
    products. A number of such products are expected to be approved
    for use in MS in the coming years. If these products have a
    similar or more attractive overall profile in terms of efficacy,
    convenience and safety, future sales of TYSABRI could be limited.


 



    Our
    long-term success depends upon the successful development and
    commercialization of other products from our research and
    development activities.


 


    Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the
    successful development and commercialization of other products
    from our research and development activities. Product
    development and commercialization are very expensive and involve
    a high degree of risk. Only a small number of research and
    development programs result in the commercialization of a
    product. Success in early stage clinical trials or preclinical
    work does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical
    trials will be successful. Even if later stage clinical trials
    are successful, the risk remains that unexpected concerns may
    arise from additional data or analysis or that obstacles may
    arise or issues may be identified in connection with review of
    clinical data with regulatory authorities or that regulatory
    authorities may disagree with our view of the data or require
    additional data or information or additional studies.


 


    Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and
    expensive process. Our ability to complete our clinical trials
    in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key
    factors including protocol design, regulatory and institutional
    review board approval, the rate of patient enrollment in
    clinical trials, and compliance with extensive current good
    clinical practice requirements. We have recently opened clinical
    sites and are enrolling patients in a number of new countries
    where our experience is more limited, and we are in many cases
    using the services of third-party contract clinical trial
    providers. If we fail to adequately manage the design, execution
    and



    
    23



Table of Contents




    regulatory aspects of our large, complex and diverse clinical
    trials, our studies and ultimately our regulatory approvals may
    be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product
    candidates altogether.


 



    Adverse
    safety events can negatively affect our assets, product sales,
    operations, products in development and stock
    price.


 


    Even after we receive marketing approval for a product, adverse
    event reports may have a negative impact on our
    commercialization efforts. Later discovery of safety issues with
    our products that were not known at the time of their approval
    by the FDA could cause product liability events, additional
    regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional labeling,
    withdrawal of products from the market and the imposition of
    fines or criminal penalties. Any of these actions could result
    in, among other things, material write-offs of inventory and
    impairments of intangible assets, goodwill and fixed assets. In
    addition, the reporting of adverse safety events involving our
    products and public rumors about such events could cause our
    stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility.


 



    If we
    fail to compete effectively, our business and market position
    would suffer.


 


    The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry is intensely
    competitive. We compete in the marketing and sale of our
    products, the development of new products and processes, the
    acquisition of rights to new products with commercial potential
    and the hiring and retention of personnel. We compete with
    biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have a greater
    number of products on the market, greater financial and other
    resources and other technological or competitive advantages. We
    cannot be certain that one or more of our competitors will not
    receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely
    affects our product development or business, will not benefit
    from significantly greater sales and marketing capabilities, or
    will not develop products that are accepted more widely than
    ours. The introduction of alternatives to our products that
    offer advantages in efficacy, safety or ease of use could
    negatively affect our revenues and reduce the value of our
    product development efforts. In addition, potential governmental
    action in the future could provide a means for competition from
    developers of follow-on biologics, which could compete on price
    and differentiation with products that we now or could in the
    future market.


 


    In addition to competing directly with products that are
    marketed by substantial pharmaceutical competitors, AVONEX,
    RITUXAN and TYSABRI also face competition from off-label uses of
    drugs approved for other indications. Some of our current
    competitors are also working to develop alternative formulations
    for delivery of their products, which may in the future compete
    with ours.


 



    We
    depend, to a significant extent, on reimbursement from third
    party payors and a reduction in the extent of reimbursement
    could negatively affect our product sales and
    revenue.


 


    Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on the
    availability and extent of reimbursement from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. Changes in government regulations or private
    third-party payors’ reimbursement policies may reduce
    reimbursement for our products and adversely affect our future
    results.


 


    In the United States, at both the federal and state levels, the
    government regularly proposes legislation to reform healthcare
    and its cost, and such proposals have received increasing
    political attention. In the last few years, there have been a
    number of legislative changes that have affected the
    reimbursement for our products, including, but not limited to,
    the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act
    of 2003 and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. The Deficit
    Reduction Act made significant changes to the Medicaid
    prescription drug provisions of the Social Security Act,
    including changes that impose the monthly reporting of price
    information and that may have an impact on the Medicaid rebates
    we pay. In addition, states may more aggressively seek Medicaid
    rebates as a result of legislation enacted in 2006, which rebate
    activity could adversely affect our results of operations.


 


    Managed care organizations as well as Medicaid and other
    government health administration authorities continue to seek
    price discounts. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses
    may continue to increase the use of managed care organizations.
    This may result in managed care organizations influencing
    prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population
    and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for
    our products.



    
    24



Table of Contents




    In addition, some states have implemented and other states are
    considering price controls or patient-access constraints under
    the Medicaid program and some states are considering
    price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of
    their populations that are not Medicaid eligible. Other matters
    also could be the subject of U.S. federal or state
    legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our
    business, including the importation of prescription drugs that
    are marketed outside the United States and sold at lower prices
    as a result of drug price limitations imposed by the governments
    of various foreign countries.


 


    We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most
    other countries. In the EU and some other international markets,
    the government provides health care at low cost to consumers and
    regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility or
    reimbursement levels to control costs for the
    government-sponsored health care system. This international
    system of price regulations may lead to inconsistent prices.
    Within the EU and other countries, some third party trade in our
    products occurs from markets with lower prices thereby
    undermining our sales in some markets with higher prices.
    Additionally, certain countries reference the prices in other
    countries where our products are marketed. Thus, inability to
    secure adequate prices in a particular country may also impair
    our ability to obtain acceptable prices in existing and
    potential new markets. This may create the opportunity for the
    third party cross border trade previously mentioned or influence
    our decision to sell or not to sell the product thus affecting
    our geographic expansion plans.


 


    When a new medical product is approved, the availability of
    government and private reimbursement for that product is
    uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be
    reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of
    reimbursement for our product candidates.


 



    We
    depend on collaborators for both product and royalty revenue and
    the clinical development of future collaboration products, which
    are outside of our full control.


 


    Collaborations between companies on products or programs are a
    common business practice in the biotechnology industry.
    Out-licensing typically allows a partner to collect up front
    payments and future milestone payments, share the costs of
    clinical development and risk of failure at various points, and
    access sales and marketing infrastructure and expertise in
    exchange for certain financial rights to the product or program
    going to the in-licensing partner. In addition, the obligation
    of in-licensees to pay royalties or share profits generally
    terminates upon expiration of the related patents. We have a
    number of collaborators and partners, and have both in-licensed
    and out-licensed several products and programs. These
    collaborations include several risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we are not fully in control of the royalty or profit sharing
    revenues we receive from collaborators, and we cannot be certain
    of the timing or potential impact of factors including patent
    expirations, pricing or health care reforms, other legal and
    regulatory developments, failure of our partners to comply with
    applicable laws and regulatory requirements, the introduction of
    competitive products, and new indication approvals which may
    affect the sales of collaboration products;




 



     
        • 

    
    where we copromote and co-market products with our collaboration
    partners, any failure on their part to comply with applicable
    laws in the sale and marketing of our products could have an
    adverse effect on our revenues as well as involve us in possible
    legal proceedings; and




 



     
        • 

    
    collaborations often require the parties to cooperate, and
    failure to do so effectively could have an adverse impact on
    product sales by our collaborators and partners, and could
    adversely affect the clinical development of shared products or
    programs under joint control.





 


    In addition, under our collaboration agreement with Genentech,
    the successful development and commercialization of the first
    anti-CD20 product acquired or developed by Genentech will
    decrease our percentage of co-promotion profits of the
    collaboration.


 



    If we
    do not successfully execute our growth initiatives through the
    acquisition, partnering and in-licensing of products,
    technologies or companies, our future performance could be
    adversely affected.


 


    In addition to the expansion of our pipeline through spending on
    internal development projects, we anticipate growing through
    external growth opportunities, which include the acquisition,
    partnering and in-licensing of products, technologies and
    companies or the entry into strategic alliances and
    collaborations. If we are unable to



    
    25



Table of Contents




    complete or manage these external growth opportunities
    successfully, we may not be able to grow our business in the way
    that we currently expect. The availability of high quality
    opportunities is limited and we are not certain that we will be
    able to identify suitable candidates or complete transactions on
    terms that are acceptable to us. In order to pursue such
    opportunities, we may require significant additional financing,
    which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all.
    The availability of such financing is limited by the recent
    tightening of the global credit markets. In addition, even if we
    are able to successfully identify and complete acquisitions, we
    may not be able to integrate them or take full advantage of them
    and therefore may not realize the benefits that we expect. If we
    are unsuccessful in our external growth program, we may not be
    able to grow our business significantly and we may incur asset
    impairment charges as a result of acquisitions that are not
    successful.


 



    If we
    fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory
    requirements affecting the healthcare industry, we could face
    increased costs, penalties and a loss of business.


 


    Our activities, and the activities of our collaborators and
    third party providers, are subject to extensive government
    regulation and oversight both in the United States and in
    foreign jurisdictions. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations
    alleging violations of government regulation, including claims
    asserting submission of incorrect pricing information,
    impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products,
    payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state
    healthcare business, submission of false claims for government
    reimbursement, antitrust violations, or violations related to
    environmental matters. Violations of governmental regulation may
    be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines
    and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in
    government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. In
    addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we
    could be required to repay amounts we received from government
    payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found
    to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted
    to the government. Whether or not we have complied with the law,
    an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase
    our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and
    attention and adversely affect our business.


 



    If we
    fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental
    regulation in the manufacture of our products, we could incur
    substantial remedial costs and a reduction in
    sales.


 


    We and our third party providers are generally required to
    maintain compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or
    cGMP, and are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable
    agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Any
    changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of
    manufacturing require amending our application to the FDA and
    acceptance of the change by the FDA prior to release of product
    to the marketplace. Our inability, or the inability of our third
    party service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cGMP compliance
    could require us to withdraw or recall product and interrupt
    commercial supply of our products. Any delay, interruption or
    other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish,
    packaging, or storage of our products as a result of a failure
    of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third
    parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection could
    significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize
    our products. This non-compliance could increase our costs,
    cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage our
    reputation.


 



    Changes
    in laws affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect
    our revenues and profitability.


 


    We and our collaborators and third party providers operate in a
    highly regulated industry. As a result, governmental actions may
    adversely affect our business, operations or financial
    condition, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new
    interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions,
    related to health care availability, method of delivery and
    payment for health care products and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes
    that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and
    result in lost market opportunity;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require
    additional safety monitoring after the introduction of our
    products to market, which could increase our costs of doing
    business and adversely affect the future permitted uses of
    approved products;






    
    26



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing
    or marketing practices; and




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the tax laws relating to our operations.





 


    The enactment in the United States of the Medicare Prescription
    Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, possible
    legislation which could ease the entry of competing follow-on
    biologics in the marketplace, and importation of lower-cost
    competing drugs from other jurisdictions are examples of changes
    and possible changes in laws that could adversely affect our
    business. In addition, the Food and Drug Administration
    Amendments Act of 2007 included new authorization for the FDA to
    require post-market safety monitoring, along with a clinical
    trials registry, and expanded authority for FDA to impose civil
    monetary penalties on companies that fail to meet certain
    commitments.


 



    Problems
    with manufacturing or with inventory planning could result in
    our inability to deliver products, inventory shortages or
    surpluses, product recalls and increased costs.


 


    We manufacture and expect to continue to manufacture our own
    commercial requirements of bulk AVONEX and TYSABRI. Our products
    are difficult to manufacture and problems in our manufacturing
    processes can occur. Our inability to successfully manufacture
    bulk product and to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals of
    our manufacturing facilities would harm our ability to produce
    timely sufficient quantities of commercial supplies of AVONEX
    and TYSABRI to meet demand. Problems with manufacturing
    processes could result in product defects or manufacturing
    failures that could require us to delay shipment of products or
    recall or withdraw products previously shipped, which could
    result in inventory write-offs and impair our ability to expand
    into new markets or supply products in existing markets. In the
    past, we have had to write down and incur other charges and
    expenses for products that failed to meet specifications.
    Similar charges may occur in the future. In addition, lower than
    expected demand for our products, including suspension of sales,
    or a change in product mix may result in less than optimal
    utilization of our manufacturing facilities and lower inventory
    turnover, which could result in abnormal manufacturing variance
    charges, facility impairment charges and charges for excess and
    obsolete inventory.


 


    We rely solely on our manufacturing facility in Research
    Triangle Park, North Carolina, or RTP, for the production of
    TYSABRI. We have applied to the FDA and the EMEA for approval of
    a production process, known as a second generation high-titer
    process, which has higher yields of TYSABRI than the process we
    currently use. Approval has been granted by the EMEA, but is
    still pending from the FDA. If we do not obtain approval for
    that process, we may need to increase our capital spending to
    add capacity at our RTP manufacturing facility and at the
    Hillerød, Denmark facility we are completing to meet demand
    for TYSABRI. Such an increase in capital spending would affect
    our business, cash position and results of operations.


 


    If we cannot produce sufficient commercial requirements of bulk
    product to meet demand, we would need to rely on third party
    contract manufacturers, of which there are only a limited number
    capable of manufacturing bulk products of the type we require.
    We cannot be certain that we could reach agreement on reasonable
    terms, if at all, with those manufacturers. Even if we were to
    reach agreement, the transition of the manufacturing process to
    a third party could take a significant amount of time. Our
    ability to supply products in sufficient capacity to meet demand
    is also dependent upon third party contractors to fill-finish,
    package and store such products. Any prolonged interruption in
    the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities could
    result in cancellations of shipments or loss of product in the
    process of being manufactured. Because our manufacturing
    processes are highly complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA
    approval process, alternative qualified production capacity may
    not be available on a timely basis or at all.


 



    We
    rely on third parties to provide services in connection with the
    manufacture of our products and, in some instances, the
    manufacture of the product itself.


 


    We rely on Genentech for all RITUXAN manufacturing. Genentech
    relies on a third party to manufacture certain bulk RITUXAN
    requirements. If Genentech or any third party upon which it
    relies does not manufacture or fill-finish RITUXAN in sufficient
    quantities and on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if
    Genentech or any third party does not obtain and maintain all
    required manufacturing approvals, our business could be harmed.


 


    We also source all of our fill-finish and the majority of our
    final product storage operations, along with a substantial
    portion of our packaging operations of the components used with
    our products, to a concentrated group of third party
    contractors. The manufacture of products and product components,
    fill-finish, packaging and storage



    
    27



Table of Contents




    of our products require successful coordination among us and
    multiple third party providers. Our inability to coordinate
    these efforts, the lack of capacity available at a third party
    contractor or any other problems with the operations of these
    third party contractors could require us to delay shipment of
    saleable products, recall products previously shipped or impair
    our ability to supply products at all. This could increase our
    costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share, diminish our
    profitability and damage our reputation. Any third party we use
    to fill-finish, package or store our products to be sold in the
    United States must be licensed by the FDA. As a result,
    alternative third party providers may not be readily available
    on a timely basis.


 


    Due to the unique nature of the production of our products,
    there are single source providers of several raw materials. We
    make every effort to qualify new vendors and to develop
    contingency plans so that production is not impacted by
    short-term issues associated with single source providers.
    Nonetheless, our business could be materially impacted by
    long-term or chronic issues associated with single source
    providers.


 



    The
    current credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate
    certain risks affecting our business.


 


    Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on
    reimbursement from government health administration authorities,
    private health insurers, distribution partners and other
    organizations. As a result of the current credit and financial
    market conditions, these organizations may be unable to satisfy
    their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. In
    addition, federal and state health authorities may reduce
    Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private insurers may
    increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the
    availability or extent of reimbursement could negatively affect
    our product sales and revenue.


 


    Due to the recent tightening of global credit, there may be a
    disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party
    contractors, suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third
    parties for several important aspects of our business, including
    portions of our product manufacturing, royalty revenue, clinical
    development of future collaboration products, conduct of
    clinical trials, and raw materials. If such third parties are
    unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be
    adversely affected.


 



    Our
    portfolio of marketable securities is significant and is subject
    to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce the value of
    our investments.


 


    We maintain a significant portfolio of marketable securities.
    Our earnings may be adversely affected by changes in the value
    of this portfolio. In particular, the value of our investments
    may be adversely affected by increases in interest rates,
    downgrades in the corporate bonds included in our portfolio,
    instability in the global financial markets that reduces the
    liquidity of securities included in our portfolio, declines in
    the value of collateral underlying the mortgage and asset-backed
    securities included in our portfolio, and by other factors which
    may result in other than temporary declines in value of the
    investments. Each of these events may cause us to record charges
    to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio or sell
    investments for less than our acquisition cost. Although we
    attempt to mitigate risks within our marketable securities
    portfolio with the assistance of our investment advisors by
    investing in high quality securities and continuously monitoring
    the overall risk profile of our portfolio, the value of our
    investments may nevertheless decline.


 



    We
    have made a significant investment in constructing a
    manufacturing facility the success of which depends upon the
    completion and licensing of the facility and continued demand
    for our products.


 


    We are building a large-scale biologic manufacturing facility in
    Hillerød, Denmark. We anticipate that the facility will be
    ready for commercial production in 2010. If we fail to manage
    the project, or unforeseen events occur, we may incur additional
    costs to complete the project. Depending on the timing of the
    completion and licensing of the facility, and our other
    estimates and assumptions regarding future product sales, the
    carrying value of all or part of the manufacturing facility or
    other assets may not be fully recoverable and could result in
    the recognition of an impairment in the carrying value at the
    time that such effects are identified. The recognition of
    impairment in the carrying value, if any, could have a material
    and adverse affect on our results of operations. For example, if
    the anticipated demand for TYSABRI does not materialize, the
    carrying values of our Hillerød, Denmark facility could be
    impaired, which would negatively impact our results of
    operations.



    
    28



Table of Contents





    If we
    are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel and key
    relationships, the growth of our business could be
    harmed.


 


    Our success will depend, to a great extent, upon our ability to
    attract and retain qualified scientific, manufacturing, sales
    and marketing and executive personnel and our ability to develop
    and maintain relationships with qualified clinical researchers
    and key distributors. Competition for these people and
    relationships is intense and we compete with numerous
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as with
    universities and non-profit research organizations. Any
    inability we experience to continue to attract and retain
    qualified personnel or develop and maintain key relationships
    could have an adverse effect on our ability to accomplish our
    research, development and external growth objectives.


 



    Our
    sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally.


 


    We are increasing our presence in international markets, which
    subjects us to many risks, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    economic problems that disrupt foreign healthcare payment
    systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    the imposition of governmental controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    the inability to obtain any necessary foreign regulatory or
    pricing approvals of products in a timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade
    restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in tax laws and tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing international
    operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles.





 


    Our operations and marketing practices are also subject to
    regulation and scrutiny by the governments of the other
    countries in which we operate. In addition, the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits U.S. companies and their
    representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making
    payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or
    retaining business abroad. In many countries, the healthcare
    professionals we regularly interact with meet the definition of
    a foreign official for purposes of the FCPA. Additionally, we
    are subject to other U.S. laws in our international
    operations. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws
    could result in various adverse consequences, including possible
    delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls,
    seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, and
    the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions.


 


    A portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than
    our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. We recognize
    foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in
    the period in which we incur those gains or losses. As a result,
    currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the
    currencies in which we do business will affect our operating
    results, often in unpredictable ways.


 



    Our
    business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions
    of activist shareholders.


 


    During the first half of 2008, we defended against a proxy
    contest waged by Icahn Partners and certain of its affiliates
    that nominated three individuals for election to our Board of
    Directors and proposed amendments to our bylaws at our 2008
    Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Although we were successful in
    having our Board’s nominees elected as directors, the proxy
    contest was disruptive to our operations and caused us to incur
    substantial costs. Icahn Partners and certain of its affiliates
    have commenced a proxy contest relating to our 2009 Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders nominating four individuals to our Board
    of Directors, proposing amendments to our bylaws and requesting
    a change in our jurisdiction of incorporation. Our business
    could be adversely affected because:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist
    shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our
    operations and diverting the attention of management and our
    employees;






    
    29



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in
    the loss of potential acquisitions, collaborations or
    in-licensing opportunities, and may make it more difficult to
    attract and retain qualified personnel and business
    partners; and




 



     
        • 

    
    If individuals are elected to our board of directors with a
    specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to
    effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create
    additional value for our stockholders.





 



    Our
    operating results are subject to significant
    fluctuations.


 


    Our quarterly revenues, expenses and net income (loss) have
    fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly
    in the future due to the timing of charges and expenses that we
    may take. In recent periods, for instance, we have recorded
    charges that include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    impairments that we are required to take with respect to
    investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    impairments that we are required to take with respect to fixed
    assets, including those that are recorded in connection with the
    sale of fixed assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    inventory write-downs for failed quality specifications, charges
    for excess
    and/or
    obsolete inventory and charges for inventory write downs
    relating to product suspensions;




 



     
        • 

    
    milestone payments under license and collaboration agreements;
    and




 



     
        • 

    
    the cost of restructurings.





 


    Our revenues are also subject to foreign exchange rate
    fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations.
    Although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge
    specific forecasted transactions denominated in foreign
    currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may
    not be successful. As a result, changes in currency exchange
    rates may have an adverse impact on our future operating results
    and financial condition. Additionally, our net income may
    fluctuate due to the impact of charges we may be required to
    take with respect to foreign currency hedge transactions. In
    particular, we may incur higher charges from hedge
    ineffectiveness than we expect or from the termination of a
    hedge relationship.


 


    These examples are only illustrative and other risks, including
    those discussed in these “Risk Factors,” could also
    cause fluctuations in our reported earnings. In addition, our
    operating results during any one period do not necessarily
    suggest the anticipated results of future periods.


 



    If we
    are unable to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual
    property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our
    development efforts or our acquired technology.


 


    We have filed numerous patent applications in the United States
    and various other countries seeking protection of inventions
    originating from our research and development, including a
    number of our processes and products. Patents have been issued
    on many of these applications. We have also obtained rights to
    various patents and patent applications under licenses with
    third parties, which provide for the payment of royalties by us.
    The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded
    to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the
    United States and in other important markets remains
    uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided
    upon by the patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these
    countries. Our patents may not afford us substantial protection
    or commercial benefit. Similarly, our pending patent
    applications or patent applications licensed from third parties
    may not ultimately be granted as patents and we may not prevail
    if patents that have been issued to us are challenged in court.
    In addition, pending legislation to reform the patent system
    could also reduce our ability to enforce our patents. We do not
    know when, or if, changes to the U.S. patent system will
    become law. If we are unable to protect our intellectual
    property rights and prevent others from exploiting our
    inventions, we will not derive the benefit from them that we
    currently expect.



    
    30



Table of Contents





    If our
    products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we
    may incur damages and be required to incur the expense of
    obtaining a license.


 


    A substantial number of patents have already been issued to
    other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. Competitors
    may have filed applications for, or have been issued patents and
    may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that may
    relate to products or processes competitive with or similar to
    our products and processes. Moreover, the patent laws of the
    United States and foreign countries are distinct and decisions
    as to patenting, validity of patents and infringement of patents
    may be resolved differently in different countries. In general,
    we obtain licenses to third party patents that we deem necessary
    or desirable for the manufacture, use and sale of our products.
    We are currently unable to assess the extent to which we may
    wish or be required to acquire rights under such patents and the
    availability and cost of acquiring such rights, or whether a
    license to such patents will be available on acceptable terms or
    at all. There may be patents in the United States or in foreign
    countries or patents issued in the future that are unavailable
    to license on acceptable terms. Our inability to obtain such
    licenses may hinder our ability to manufacture and market our
    products.


 



    Uncertainty
    over intellectual property in the biotechnology industry has
    been the source of litigation, which is inherently costly and
    unpredictable.


 


    We are aware that others, including various universities and
    companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent
    applications and have been granted patents in the United States
    and in other countries claiming subject matter potentially
    useful to our business. Some of those patents and patent
    applications claim only specific products or methods of making
    such products, while others claim more general processes or
    techniques useful or now used in the biotechnology industry.
    There is considerable uncertainty within the biotechnology
    industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many
    issued patents in the United States and elsewhere in the world,
    and, to date, there is no consistent policy regarding the
    breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. We cannot
    currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents
    which may be granted to third parties in the future or which
    patents might be asserted to be infringed by the manufacture,
    use and sale of our products.


 


    There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be,
    significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and
    other intellectual property rights. Litigation and
    administrative proceedings concerning patents and other
    intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and
    distracting to management. Competitors may sue us as a way of
    delaying the introduction of our products. Any litigation,
    including any interference proceedings to determine priority of
    inventions, oppositions to patents in foreign countries or
    litigation against our partners, may be costly and time
    consuming and could harm our business. We expect that litigation
    may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and
    scope of certain of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be
    necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or
    noninfringement of certain patent rights claimed by third
    parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our
    products. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could
    adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other
    proprietary rights, or, conversely, hinder our ability to
    manufacture and market our products.


 



    Pending
    and future product liability claims may adversely affect our
    business and our reputation.


 


    The administration of drugs in humans, whether in clinical
    studies or commercially, carries the inherent risk of product
    liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause
    of an injury. Our products or product candidates may cause, or
    may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug
    interactions, and we may not learn about or understand those
    effects until the product or product candidate has been
    administered to patients for a prolonged period of time.


 


    We are subject from time to time to lawsuits based on product
    liability and related claims. We cannot predict with certainty
    the eventual outcome of any pending or future litigation. We may
    not be successful in defending ourselves in the litigation and,
    as a result, our business could be materially harmed. These
    lawsuits may result in large judgments or settlements against
    us, any of which could have a negative effect on our financial
    condition and business. Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive
    to defend, whether or not they have merit, and the defense of
    these actions may divert the attention of our management and
    other resources that would otherwise be engaged in managing our
    business.



    
    31



Table of Contents





    Our
    effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in
    tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been
    accrued.


 


    As a global biotechnology company, we are subject to taxation in
    numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. As a result,
    our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of
    applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other
    jurisdictions in which we operate. In preparing our financial
    statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become
    payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions
    in which we operate. Our effective tax rate, however, may be
    lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous
    factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from
    country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and
    changes in tax laws. Any of these factors could cause us to
    experience an effective tax rate significantly different from
    previous periods or our current expectations, which could have
    an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In
    addition, unfavorable results of audits of our tax filings, our
    inability to secure or sustain arrangements with tax
    authorities, and recently enacted and future changes in tax laws
    in jurisdictions in which we operate, among other things, may
    cause us to be obligated to accrue for future tax payments in
    excess of amounts accrued in our financial statements.


 



    Our
    level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business and
    limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our
    business.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we had $1,113.1 million of
    outstanding indebtedness, and we may incur additional debt in
    the future. Our level of indebtedness could have significant
    consequences to our business, for example, it could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby
    reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes,
    including business development efforts and mergers and
    acquisitions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby
    placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that may have less debt.





 



    Our
    business involves environmental risks, which include the cost of
    compliance and the risk of contamination or
    injury.


 


    Our business and the business of several of our strategic
    partners, including Genentech and Elan, involve the controlled
    use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive
    compounds. Biologics manufacturing is extremely susceptible to
    product loss due to contamination, equipment failure, or vendor
    or operator error. Although we believe that our safety
    procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply
    with state and federal standards, there will always be the risk
    of accidental contamination or injury. In addition, microbial or
    viral contamination may cause the closure of a manufacturing
    facility for an extended period of time. By law, radioactive
    materials may only be disposed of at state-approved facilities.
    We currently store radioactive materials from our California
    laboratory
    on-site
    because the approval of a disposal site in California for all
    California-based companies has been delayed indefinitely. If and
    when a disposal site is approved, we may incur substantial costs
    related to the disposal of these materials. If we were to become
    liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended
    facility shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages and
    penalties that could harm our business. Biologics manufacturing
    also requires permits from government agencies for water supply
    and wastewater discharge. If we do not obtain appropriate
    permits, or permits for sufficient quantities of water and
    wastewater, we could incur significant costs and limits on our
    manufacturing volumes that could harm our business.


 



    Several
    aspects of our corporate governance and our collaboration
    agreements may discourage a third party from attempting to
    acquire us.


 


    Several factors might discourage a takeover attempt that could
    be viewed as beneficial to stockholders who wish to receive a
    premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a
    business combination with an interested stockholder for a period
    of three years after the date of






    
    32



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    the transaction in which the person became an interested
    stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the
    manner prescribed in Section 203;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our board of directors has the authority to issue, without a
    vote or action of stockholders, up to 8,000,000 shares of
    preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and
    privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to
    the rights of holders of common stock;




 



     
        • 

    
    our collaboration agreement with Elan provides Elan with the
    option to buy the rights to TYSABRI in the event that we undergo
    a change of control, which may limit our attractiveness to
    potential acquirers;




 



     
        • 

    
    our amended and restated collaboration agreement with Genentech
    provides that, in the event we undergo a change of control,
    within 90 days Genentech may present an offer to us to
    purchase our rights to RITUXAN. In an arbitration proceeding
    brought by Biogen Idec relating to the collaboration agreement,
    Genentech alleged that the November 2003 transaction in which
    Idec Pharmaceuticals acquired Biogen and became Biogen Idec
    constituted such a change of control, an assertion with which we
    strongly disagree. It is our position that the Biogen Idec
    merger did not constitute a change of control under our
    agreement with Genentech and that, even if it did,
    Genentech’s rights under the change of control provision
    have long since expired. If the arbitrators decide this issue in
    favor of Genentech, or if a change of control were to occur in
    the future and Genentech were to present an offer for the
    RITUXAN rights, we must either accept Genentech’s offer or
    purchase Genentech’s rights to RITUXAN on the same terms as
    its offer. If Genentech presents such an offer, then they will
    be deemed concurrently to have exercised a right, in exchange
    for a royalty on net sales in the U.S. of any anti-CD20
    product acquired or developed by Genentech or any anti-CD20
    product that Genentech licenses from a third party that is
    developed under the agreement, to purchase our interest in each
    such product;




 



     
        • 

    
    our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the
    entire board from being replaced in any single year; and




 



     
        • 

    
    advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for
    election as a director and for proposals to be brought before an
    annual meeting of stockholders.





 




    
    



    
    Item 1B