Item 1A — Risk Factors — Legal and Regulatory Risks.” 
Revised Department of Labor (“DoL”) Fiduciary Rule
In April 2015, the DoL proposed a new regulation defining the term "fiduciary" for purposes of the fiduciary responsibility provisions of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) and the prohibited transaction exercise tax provisions of the IRS. The rule has been highly criticized by industry participants, particularly retail intermediaries, and BlackRock is engaging with the DoL, trade associations and industry participants in an effort to affect revisions to the proposed rule. To the extent the rule is enacted as written, it will require BlackRock to re-paper a number of its distribution relationships, create compliance and operational challenges for BlackRock’s distribution partners and may limit BlackRock’s ability to provide certain useful services and education to its clients.  
Markets in Financial Instruments Directives 
BlackRock is also subject to numerous regulatory reform initiatives in Europe.  For example, in the EU rules and regulations made under the current Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID”) regime (described more particularly under “— European Regulation” below) are in the process of being revised through implementation of the “MiFID II” package of measures made up of a recast Directive and a new Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation.  MiFID II, which was originally scheduled to come into effect in January 2017, but is now scheduled to come into effect in January 2018, will be implemented through a number of Implementing and Regulatory Technical Standards to be made through Delegated Acts made by the European Commission following advice from the European Securities and Markets Authority (“ESMA”). MiFID II will build upon many of the measures introduced by MiFID, and will extend investor protection, trading transparency, clearing and trading venue access and reporting requirements. It is expected that MiFID II will have significant and wide-ranging impacts on EU securities and derivatives markets. In particular, there will be (i) enhanced governance and investor protection standards, (ii) prescriptive rules on portfolio management firms’ ability to receive and pay for investment research relating to all asset classes, (iii) enhanced regulation of algorithmic trading, (iv) the movement of trading in certain shares and derivatives on to regulated execution venues, (v) the extension of pre- and post-trade transparency requirements to wider categories of financial instruments, (vi) restrictions on the use of so-called dark pool trading, (vii) the creation of a new type of trading venue called the Organized Trading Facility for non-equity financial instruments, (viii) commodity derivative position limits and reporting requirements, (ix) a move away from vertical silos in execution, clearing and settlement, (x) an enhanced role for ESMA in supervising EU securities and derivatives markets and (xi) new requirements regarding non-EU investment firms’ access to EU financial markets. Implementation of these measures will have direct and indirect impacts on BlackRock and its subsidiaries and may require significant changes to client servicing models.  A significant number of the impacts are yet to be determined because MiFID II contains a wide ranging and complex set of measures. 
13

Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities 
The EU has also adopted directives on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (“UCITS”). The latest initiative in this area, UCITS V seeks to align the UCITS depositary regime, UCITS remuneration rules and regulators’ power to sanction for breaches of the UCITS Directive with the requirements of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (“AIFMD”). UCITS V is required to be adopted in the national law of each EU member state by March 18, 2016 though further implementing measures will only become effective in late 2016. Compliance with the updated UCITS directive will subject BlackRock to additional expenses associated with new depositary oversight and other organizational requirements. 
Reform of European Retail Distribution 
BlackRock must also comply with retail distribution rules aimed at enhancing consumer protections, overhauling mutual fund fee structures by banning the payment of commissions to distributors and increasing professionalism in the retail investment sector. The rules were originally introduced in the United Kingdom in 2012 and similar rules have since been introduced in other jurisdictions where BlackRock operates such as the Netherlands, and are under discussion elsewhere. Similarly, MiFID II will contain a ban on certain advisers recovering commissions and other nonmonetary benefits from fund managers. These rules will lead to greater fragmentation of distribution rules and may lead to changes to BlackRock’s client servicing and distribution models, in particular affecting the fees BlackRock is able to charge to its clients and the commissions it is able to pay to its distribution partners. 
EU Benchmarks Regulation 
Political agreement on the EU Benchmarks Regulation was reached at the end of 2015. The Regulation provides the legislative framework to implement the 2013 IOSCO Principles for Financial Benchmarks.  The scope of the Regulation is broad as it includes submission based benchmarks through to transaction based market indices. Proportionality is applied to create a stricter framework for the systemically relevant benchmarks such as LIBOR and EURIBOR. Although the Regulation creates a number of obligations on administrators of, and submitters to, benchmarks, it is less extensive as regards the obligations of users of benchmarks, such as asset managers. The Regulation formalizes due diligence procedures for users and implies other additional administrative requirements of users of third-party benchmarks. Managers using third-party and/or bespoke benchmarks to assess fund performance are also caught by the Regulation. It is expected that detailed rule-making underpinning the Regulation's framework will be developed during 2016 and implemented beginning in 2018. While it is not yet possible to assess the full effect of the Regulation on BlackRock's business, it may impose additional administrative and due diligence requirements on the Company, the burden of which is likely to increase as BlackRock makes additional enhancements to its indexing business.
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”) Proposed Rulemaking for Registered Investment Advisers
FinCEN has issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“Proposed Rule”) that would extend to a number of BlackRock’s subsidiaries, which are registered or required to be registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the “Advisers Act”), the requirement to establish anti-money laundering programs and report suspicious activity to FinCEN under the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (the “Bank Secrecy Act”).  The Proposed Rule would extend to those BlackRock subsidiaries captured within the Bank Secrecy Act’s definition of “financial institutions”, which would require them to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act reporting and recordkeeping requirements.  If enacted in its current form, the Proposed Rule would expose BlackRock to additional compliance costs. 
Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) Asset Management Market Survey
As part of its strategic priorities, the FCA is undertaking a market study into the asset management sector. The aim of this study is to understand whether competition is working effectively to enable both institutional and retail investors to get value for money when purchasing asset management services. The FCA is interested in understanding whether there are any barriers to innovation or technological advances which may be preventing new ways of doing business that could benefit investors (Fintech). If the FCA concludes that competition is not working well, the FCA may intervene through rule-making, introducing firm-specific remedies or enforcement action, publishing general guidance or proposing enhanced industry self-regulation. BlackRock is one of 40 firms included in the study and is currently responding to an information request that consists of qualitative and quantitative data. The FCA is aiming to engage with firms throughout 2016 with the proposal to issue a draft report to the industry in the summer of 2016. The FCA expect to publish their final report in early 2017. 
EXISTING U.S. REGULATION - OVERVIEW 
BlackRock and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries are currently subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the federal level, by the SEC, the DoL, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the National Futures Association (“NFA”), the CFTC and other government agencies and regulatory bodies. Certain of BlackRock’s U.S. subsidiaries are also subject to various anti-terrorist financing, privacy, anti-money laundering regulations and economic sanctions laws and regulations established by various agencies. 
The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers such as BlackRock, including record-keeping, operational and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”) imposes stringent governance, compliance, operational, disclosure and related obligations on registered investment companies and their investment advisers and distributors, such as BlackRock and its affiliated companies. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser’s registration. Investment advisers also are subject to certain state securities laws and regulations. Non-compliance with the Advisers Act, the Investment Company Act or other federal and state securities laws and regulations could result in investigations, sanctions, disgorgement, fines and reputational damage. 
BlackRock’s trading and investment activities for client accounts are regulated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), as well as the rules of various securities exchanges and self-regulatory organizations, including laws governing trading on inside information, market manipulation and a broad number of technical requirements (e.g., short sale limits, volume limitations and reporting obligations) and market regulation policies. Violation of any of these laws and regulations could result in restrictions on BlackRock’s activities and damage its 
14

reputation. Furthermore, one of BlackRock’s subsidiaries, BTC, was required to register as a municipal advisor (as that term is defined in the statute) with the SEC and Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”) as a result of SEC rules giving effect to a section of the DFA requiring such registration. The rules subject BTC to new and additional regulation by the SEC and MSRB.
BlackRock manages a variety of private pools of capital, including hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, private equity funds, collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”), collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”), real estate funds, collective investment trusts, managed futures funds and hybrid funds. Congress, regulators, tax authorities and others continue to explore, on their own and in response to demands from the investment community and the public, increased regulation related to private pools of capital, including changes with respect to investor eligibility, certain limitations on trading activities, record-keeping and reporting, the scope of anti-fraud protections, safekeeping of client assets and a variety of other matters. BlackRock may be materially and adversely affected by new legislation, rule-making or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing rules and regulations imposed by various regulators in this area. 
Certain BlackRock subsidiaries are subject to ERISA, and to regulations promulgated thereunder by the DoL, insofar as they act as a “fiduciary” under Title I of ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose certain duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit certain transactions involving ERISA plan clients and impose excise taxes for violations of these prohibitions, mandate certain required periodic reporting and disclosures and require certain BlackRock entities to carry bonds insuring against losses caused by fraud or dishonesty. ERISA also imposes additional compliance, reporting and operational requirements on BlackRock that otherwise are not applicable to non-benefit plan clients. 
BlackRock has seven subsidiaries that are registered as commodity pool operators (“CPOs”) and/or commodity trading advisors (“CTAs”) with the CFTC and are members of the NFA. The CFTC and NFA each administer a comparable regulatory system covering futures contracts and various other financial instruments, including swaps as a result of the DFA, in which certain BlackRock clients may invest. Two of BlackRock’s other subsidiaries, BlackRock Investments, LLC (“BRIL”) and BlackRock Execution Services, are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers and are member-firms of FINRA. Each broker-dealer has a membership agreement with FINRA that limits the scope of such broker-dealer’s permitted activities. BRIL is also an approved person with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and a member of the MSRB, subject to MSRB rules. 
U.S. Banking Regulation 
PNC is a bank holding company and regulated as a “financial holding company” by the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHC Act”). As described in “Item 1-Business”, as of December 31, 2015 PNC owned approximately 22% of BlackRock’s capital stock. Based on the Federal Reserve’s interpretation of the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve currently takes the position that this ownership interest causes BlackRock to be treated as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC for purposes of the BHC Act, thereby subjecting BlackRock to banking regulation, including the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve and to most banking laws, regulations and orders that apply to PNC, including the Volcker Rule. The supervision and regulation of PNC and its subsidiaries under applicable banking laws are intended primarily for the protection of its banking subsidiaries, its depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the financial system as a whole, rather than for the protection of stockholders, creditors or clients of PNC or BlackRock. 
BlackRock generally may conduct only activities that are authorized for a financial holding company under the BHC Act. Investment management is an authorized activity, but must be conducted within applicable regulatory requirements, which in some cases are more restrictive than those BlackRock faces under applicable securities laws. BlackRock may also invest in investment companies and private investment funds to which it provides advisory, administrative or other services, only to the extent consistent with applicable law and regulatory interpretations. Based on the Federal Reserve’s position that BlackRock is a nonbank subsidiary of PNC, the Federal Reserve has broad powers to approve, deny or refuse to act upon applications or notices for BlackRock to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses or assets, or reconfigure existing operations, and there are limits on the ability of bank subsidiaries of PNC to extend credit to or conduct other transactions with BlackRock or its funds. PNC and its subsidiaries are also subject to examination by various banking regulators, which results in examination reports and ratings that may adversely impact the conduct and growth of BlackRock’s businesses. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has broad enforcement authority over nonbank subsidiaries, including the power to prohibit them from conducting any activity that, in the Federal Reserve’s opinion, is unauthorized or constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice. The Federal Reserve may also impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations of applicable banking laws, regulations and orders. The DFA strengthened the Federal Reserve’s supervisory and enforcement authority over a bank holding company’s nonbank subsidiaries. 
Any failure of PNC to maintain its status as a financial holding company could result in substantial limitations on certain BlackRock activities and its growth. Such a change of status could be caused by any failure of PNC or one of PNC’s bank subsidiaries to remain “well capitalized” and “well managed,” by any examination downgrade of one of PNC’s bank subsidiaries, or by any failure of one of PNC’s bank subsidiaries to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act. 
One of BlackRock’s subsidiaries, BTC, is organized as a limited purpose national trust company that does not accept deposits or make commercial loans. BTC is a member of the Federal Reserve System. Accordingly, BTC is examined and supervised by the OCC and is subject to various banking laws and regulations enforced by the OCC, such as capital adequacy, regulations governing fiduciaries, conflicts of interest, self-dealing, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. BTC is also subject to various Federal Reserve regulations applicable to member institutions, such as regulations restricting transactions with affiliates. Many of these laws and regulations are meant for the protection of BTC’s customers and not BTC, BlackRock and its affiliates, or BlackRock’s stockholders. 
Regulation of Securities Lending Financing Transactions
In its 2014 Annual Report, the FSOC identified securities lending indemnification by asset managers who act as lending agents as a potential systemic risk that required further review and monitoring. The Federal Reserve is also considering whether to impose specific margin or minimum haircut requirements for securities financing transactions (“SFTs”). In addition, in October 2015, the European Parliament adopted the European Commission’s proposal for a European regulation on the reporting and transparency of SFTs. The SFT regulation aims to improve the transparency surrounding SFTs and limit the perceived risks of SFTs by, among other things, requiring central reporting of SFTs, requiring disclosure of SFTs to investors and imposing minimum requirements relating to the difference in prices at which a market maker can buy and sell a security in SFTs. If the recent scrutiny of SFTs results in additional regulatory requirements or reporting obligations, BlackRock may be 
15

required to introduce additional compliance measures, which will subject BlackRock to additional expenses and could lead to modifications in BlackRock’s SFT activities, including potential adjustments to its activities as agent lender for its clients.
EXISTING INTERNATIONAL REGULATION — OVERVIEW 
BlackRock’s international operations are subject to the laws and regulations of a number of international jurisdictions, as well as oversight by numerous regulatory agencies and bodies in those jurisdictions. In some instances, these operations are also affected by U.S. laws and regulations that have extra-territorial application. 
Below is a summary of certain international regulatory standards to which BlackRock is subject. It is not meant to be comprehensive as there are parallel legal and regulatory arrangements in force in many jurisdictions where BlackRock’s subsidiaries conduct business. 
Of note among the various other international regulations to which BlackRock is subject, are the extensive and complex regulatory reporting requirements that necessitate the monitoring and reporting of issuer exposure levels (thresholds) across the holdings of managed funds and accounts and those of the Company. 
European Regulation 
The FCA currently regulates certain BlackRock subsidiaries in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”). It also regulates those U.K. subsidiaries’ branches established in other European Union countries and the U.K. branches of certain of BlackRock’s U.S. subsidiaries. In addition, the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) regulates one BlackRock U.K. insurance subsidiary. Authorization by the FCA and (where relevant) the PRA is required to conduct certain financial services related business in the U.K. under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the “FSMA”). The FCA’s rules adopted under the FSMA govern the majority of a firm’s capital resources requirements, senior management arrangements, conduct of business, interaction with clients, and systems and controls, whereas the rules of the PRA focus solely on the prudential requirements that apply to BlackRock’s U.K.-regulated insurance subsidiary. The FCA supervises BlackRock’s U.K.-regulated subsidiaries through a combination of proactive engagement, event-driven and reactive supervision and thematic based reviews in order to monitor BlackRock’s compliance with regulatory requirements. Breaches of the FCA’s rules may result in a wide range of disciplinary actions against BlackRock’s U.K.-regulated subsidiaries and/or its employees. 
In addition, BlackRock’s U.K.-regulated subsidiaries and other European subsidiaries and branches, must comply with the pan-European regulatory regime established by MiFID, which regulates the provision of investment services and activities throughout the wider EEA. MiFID, the scope of which is being enhanced through MiFID II (which is described more particularly under “— Global Regulatory Reform” above), sets out detailed requirements governing the organization and conduct of business of investment firms and regulated markets. It also includes pre- and post-trade transparency requirements for equity and non-equity markets and extensive transaction reporting requirements. Certain BlackRock European subsidiaries must also comply with the Consolidated Life Directive and Insurance Mediation Directive. In addition, relevant entities must comply with revised obligations on capital resources for banks and certain investment firms (the Capital Requirements Directive). These include requirements on capital, as well as matters of governance and remuneration. The obligations introduced through these directives will have a direct effect on some of BlackRock’s European operations. 
BlackRock’s EU-regulated subsidiaries are also subject to an EU regulation on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories, which requires (i) the central clearing of standardized OTC derivatives, (ii) the application of risk-mitigation techniques to non-centrally cleared OTC derivatives and (iii) the reporting of all derivative contracts since February 2014. 
Regulation in the Asia-Pacific Region 
In Japan, a BlackRock subsidiary is subject to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (“FIEL”) and the Law Concerning Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations. These laws are administered and enforced by the Japanese Financial Services Agency (“JFSA”), which establishes standards for compliance, including capital adequacy and financial soundness requirements, customer protection requirements and conduct of business rules. The JFSA is empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders or the suspension or revocation of registrations and licenses granted under the FIEL. This Japanese subsidiary also holds a license for real estate brokerage activity which subjects it to the regulations set forth in the Real Estate Brokerage Business Act. 
In Australia, BlackRock’s subsidiaries are subject to various Australian federal and state laws, and certain subsidiaries are regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (“ASIC”). ASIC regulates companies and financial services in Australia and is responsible for promoting investor, creditor and consumer protection. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in the cancellation, suspension or variation of the regulated subsidiaries’ licenses in Australia. 
The activities of certain BlackRock subsidiaries in Hong Kong are subject to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”) which governs the securities and futures markets and regulates, among others, offers of investments to the public and provides for the licensing of intermediaries. The SFO is administered by the Securities and Futures Commission (“SFC”). The SFC is also empowered to establish standards for compliance as well as codes and guidelines. The relevant BlackRock subsidiaries and the employees conducting any of the regulated activities specified in the SFO are required to be licensed with the SFC, and are subject to the rules, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC. Failure to comply with the applicable laws, regulations, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC could result in the suspension or revocations of the licenses granted by the SFC. 
BlackRock’s operations in Taiwan are regulated by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, which is responsible for regulating securities markets (including the Taiwan Stock Exchange and the Taiwan Futures Exchange), the banking industry and the insurance sector. Other financial regulators oversee BlackRock subsidiaries, branches, and representative offices across the Asia-Pacific region, including in Singapore and South Korea. Regulators in these jurisdictions have authority with respect to financial services including, among other things, the authority to grant or cancel required licenses or registrations. In addition, these regulators may subject certain BlackRock subsidiaries to net capital requirements. 
16

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 
BlackRock files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and all amendments to these reports and other information with the SEC. BlackRock makes available free-of-charge, on or through its website at http://www.blackrock.com, the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and all amendments to those filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Company also makes available on its website the charters for the Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers and its Corporate Governance Guidelines. Further, BlackRock will provide, without charge, upon written request, a copy of the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and all amendments to those filings as well as the committee charters, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers and its Corporate Governance Guidelines. Requests for copies should be addressed to Investor Relations, BlackRock, Inc., 55 East 52nd Street, New York, New York 10055. Investors may read and copy any document BlackRock files at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. Reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including BlackRock’s filings, are also available to the public from the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. 
 
17

Item 1A. Risk Factors 
As a leading investment management firm, risk is an inherent part of BlackRock’s business. Global markets, by their nature, are prone to uncertainty and subject participants to a variety of risks. While BlackRock devotes significant resources across all of its operations to identify, measure, monitor, manage and analyze market, operating, legal, compliance, fiduciary and investment risks, BlackRock’s business, financial condition, operating results and nonoperating results could be materially adversely affected and the Company’s stock price could decline as a result of any of these risks and uncertainties, including the ones discussed below. 
MARKET AND COMPETITION RISKS 
Changes in the value levels of equity, debt, real estate, commodities, currency or other asset markets may cause assets under management (“AUM”), revenue and earnings to decline. 
BlackRock’s investment management revenue is primarily comprised of fees based on a percentage of the value of AUM and, in some cases, performance fees which are normally expressed as a percentage of returns to the client. Numerous factors, including price movements in the equity, debt or currency markets, or in the price of real estate, commodities or alternative investments in which BlackRock invests, could cause: 




 

•

the value of AUM, or the returns BlackRock realizes on AUM, to decrease; 




 

•

the withdrawal of funds from BlackRock’s products in favor of products offered by competitors; 




 

•

the rebalancing or reallocating of assets into BlackRock products that yield lower fees; 




 

•

an impairment to the value of intangible assets and goodwill; or 




 

•

a decrease in the value of seed or co-investment capital. 
The occurrence of any of these events may cause the Company’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
BlackRock’s investment advisory contracts may be terminated or may not be renewed by clients or fund boards on favorable terms and the liquidation of certain funds may be accelerated at the option of investors. 
BlackRock derives a substantial portion of its revenue from its investment advisory business. The advisory or management contracts BlackRock has entered into with its clients, including the agreements that govern many of BlackRock’s investment funds, provide investors or, in some cases, the independent directors of private investment funds, with significant latitude to terminate such contracts, withdraw funds or liquidate funds by simple majority vote with limited notice or penalty, or to remove BlackRock as a fund’s investment advisor (or equivalent). BlackRock also manages its U.S. mutual funds, closed-end and exchange-traded funds under management contracts that must be renewed and approved annually by the funds’ respective boards of directors, a majority of whom are independent from the Company. BlackRock’s fee arrangements under any of its advisory or management contracts may be subject to reduction (including at the behest of a fund’s board of directors). In addition, if a number of BlackRock’s clients terminate their contracts, remove BlackRock from advisory roles, liquidate funds or fail to renew management contracts on favorable terms, the fees or carried interest BlackRock earns could be reduced which may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
Increased competition may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
The investment management industry is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. BlackRock competes based on a number of factors including: investment performance, the level of fees charged, the quality and diversity of services and products provided, name recognition and reputation, and the ability to develop new investment strategies and products to meet the changing needs of investors. Increased competition on the basis of any of these factors, including competition leading to fee reductions on existing or new business, may cause the Company’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
Failure to maintain Aladdin’s competitive position in a dynamic market for risk analytics could lead to a loss of clients and could impede BlackRock’s productivity and growth. 
The sophisticated risk analytics that BlackRock provides via the Aladdin technology platform to support investment advisory and BlackRock Solutions clients are an important element of BlackRock’s competitive success.  Aladdin’s competitive position is based in part on its ability to combine sophisticated risk analytics with comprehensive portfolio management, trading and operations tools on a single platform.  Increased competition from risk analytics and investment management technology providers or a shift in client demand away to standalone or internally developed solutions, whether due to market-based or regulatory factors, may weaken Aladdin’s competitive position and may cause the Company’s revenue and earnings to decline.  In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively protect and enforce its intellectual property rights in Aladdin.
The impairment or failure of other financial institutions may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
BlackRock’s investment management activities expose the products and accounts it manages to many different industries and counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial and investment banks, clearing organizations, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Transactions with counterparties expose the products and accounts BlackRock manages to credit risk in the event the applicable counterparty defaults. Although BlackRock regularly assesses risks posed by its counterparties, such counterparties may be subject to sudden swings in the financial and credit markets that may impair their ability to perform or they may otherwise fail to meet their obligations. Any such impairment or failure could negatively impact the performance of products or accounts managed by BlackRock, which could lead to the loss of clients and may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
18

The failure or negative performance of products offered by competitors may cause AUM in similar BlackRock products to decline irrespective of BlackRock’s performance. 
Many competitors offer similar products to those offered by BlackRock and the failure or negative performance of competitors’ products could lead to a loss of confidence in similar BlackRock products, irrespective of the performance of such products. Any loss of confidence in a product type could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products, which may cause the Company’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
Changes in the value of seed and co-investments that BlackRock owns could affect its nonoperating income and could increase the volatility of its earnings. 
At December 31, 2015, BlackRock’s net economic investment exposure of approximately $1.5 billion in its investments (see “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Investments”) primarily resulted from co-investments and seed investments in its sponsored investment funds. Movements in the equity, debt or currency markets, or in the price of real estate, commodities or alternative investments, could lower the value of these investments, increase the volatility of BlackRock’s earnings and may cause earnings to decline. 
Acts of terror and the continued threat of terrorism, as well as increased geopolitical unrest could adversely affect the global economy or specific international, regional and domestic markets, which may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
Terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism and acts of civil or international hostility, both within the United States and abroad, as well as ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the global markets, loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Acts of terror may also result in increased border security between countries which could adversely affect trade, impede growth and exacerbate refugee crises arising out of civil or international conflicts. Continued geopolitical unrest and terrorist activity that adversely affect the global economy or capital markets may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.
Risks Related to INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE 
Poor investment performance could lead to the loss of clients and may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
The Company’s management believes that investment performance, including the efficient delivery of beta for passively managed products, is one of the most important factors for the growth and retention of AUM. Poor investment performance relative to applicable portfolio benchmarks or to competitors may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline as a result of: 




 

•

client withdrawals in favor of better performing products; 




 

•

client shifts from active to passive products which charge lower fees;




 

•

the diminishing ability to attract additional funds from existing and new clients; 




 

•

the Company earning reduced, minimal or no performance fees; 




 

•

an impairment to the value of intangible assets and goodwill; or 




 

•

a decrease in investment returns on seed and co-investment capital. 
Performance fees may increase volatility of both revenue and earnings. 
A portion of BlackRock’s revenue is derived from performance fees on investment advisory assignments. Performance fees represented $621 million, or 5%, of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. Generally, the Company is entitled to a performance fee only if the agreement pursuant to which it is managing the assets provides for one and if returns on the related portfolio exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. If these targets are not exceeded, a performance fee for that period will not be earned and, if targets are based on cumulative returns, the Company may not earn performance fees in future periods, which may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
Failure to identify errors in the quantitative models BlackRock utilizes to manage its business could adversely impact product performance and client relationships. 
BlackRock employs various quantitative models to support its investment decisions and allocations, including those related to risk assessment, portfolio management, trading and hedging activities and product valuations. Any errors in the underlying models or model assumptions could have unanticipated and adverse consequences on BlackRock’s business and reputation. 
TECHNOLOGY AND OPERATIONAL RISKS 
A failure in BlackRock’s operational systems or infrastructure, including business continuity plans, could disrupt operations, damage the Company’s reputation and may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
BlackRock’s infrastructure, including its technological capacity, data centers and office space, is vital to the competitiveness of its business. Moreover a significant portion of BlackRock’s critical business operations are concentrated in a limited number of geographic areas, including San Francisco, New York, London and Gurgaon. The failure to maintain an infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of BlackRock’s business, or the occurrence of a business outage or event outside BlackRock’s control, including a major earthquake, hurricane, fire, terrorist act, pandemic or other catastrophic event in any location at which BlackRock maintains a major presence, could materially impact operations, result in disruption to the business or impede its growth. Notwithstanding BlackRock’s efforts to ensure business continuity, if it fails to keep business continuity plans up-to-date or if such plans, including secure back-up facilities and systems and the availability of back-up employees, are improperly implemented or deployed during a disruption, the Company’s ability to operate could be adversely impacted which may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline or impact the Company’s ability to comply with regulatory obligations leading to reputational harm, regulatory fines and/or sanctions. 
19

A cyber-attack or a failure to implement effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses that may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
BlackRock is dependent on the effectiveness of the information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities it maintains to protect its computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. An externally caused information security incident, such as a hacker attack, virus, phishing scam or worm, or an internally caused issue, such as failure to control access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential client or competitive information. 
There have been a number of recent highly publicized cases involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information, as well as cyber-attacks involving the dissemination, theft and destruction of corporate information or other assets, as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties, including actions by terrorist organizations and hostile foreign governments. BlackRock has been the target of attempted cyber-attacks, as well as the co-opting of its brand to create fraudulent websites, and must continuously monitor and develop its systems to protect its technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption, as the failure to do so could disrupt BlackRock’s operations and cause financial losses. In addition, due to BlackRock’s interconnectivity with third-party vendors, central agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial institutions, BlackRock may be adversely affected if any of them are subject to a successful cyber-attack or other information security event. Any information security incident or cyber-attack against BlackRock or third parties with whom it is connected could result in material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory fines and/or sanctions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
Failure or unavailability of third-party dependencies may adversely affect Aladdin operations and could lead to a loss of clients and could impede BlackRock’s productivity and growth 
BlackRock relies on its ability to maintain a robust and secure technological framework to maximize the benefit of the Aladdin platform.  The analytical capabilities of Aladdin depend on the ability of a number of third parties to provide data and other information as inputs into Aladdin analytical calculations.  The failure of these third parties to provide such data or information, or disruption of such information flows, could result in operational difficulties and adversely impact BlackRock’s ability to provide services to its investment advisory and BlackRock Solutions clients. 
Operating risks associated with BlackRock’s securities lending program may result in client losses. 
BlackRock lends securities to banks and broker-dealers on behalf of certain of its clients. In these securities lending transactions, the borrower is required to provide and maintain collateral at or above regulatory minimums. Securities on loan are marked to market daily to determine if the borrower is required to pledge additional collateral. BlackRock must manage this process and is charged with mitigating the associated operational risks. The failure of BlackRock’s controls to mitigate such operational risks could result in financial losses for the Company’s clients that participate in its securities lending programs (separate from the risks of collateral investments), and BlackRock may be held liable for any failure to manage any such risks. 
BlackRock indemnifies certain securities lending clients for specified losses as a result of a borrower default. 
BlackRock provides borrower default indemnification to certain of its securities lending clients. In the event of a borrower default, BlackRock would use the collateral pledged by the borrower to repurchase securities out on loan in order to replace them in a client’s account. Borrower default indemnification is limited to the shortfall that occurs in the event the collateral available at the time of the borrower’s default is insufficient to repurchase those securities out on loan.  BlackRock requires all borrowers to mark to market their pledged collateral daily to levels in excess of the value of the securities on loan to mitigate the likelihood of the indemnity being triggered. Where the collateral is in the form of cash, the indemnities BlackRock provides do not guarantee, assume or otherwise insure the investment performance or return of any cash collateral vehicle into which that cash collateral is invested. The amount of securities on loan as of December 31, 2015 and subject to indemnification was $169.3 billion. BlackRock held, as agent, cash and securities totaling $179.6 billion as collateral for indemnified securities on loan at December 31, 2015. Significant borrower defaults occurring simultaneously with rapid declines in the value of collateral pledged and/or increases in the value of the securities loaned may create collateral shortfalls, which could result in material liabilities under these indemnities and may cause the Company’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
BlackRock’s decision to provide support to particular products from time to time, or the inability to provide support, may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
BlackRock may, at its option, from time to time support investment products through capital or other credit support. Such support may utilize capital and liquidity that would otherwise be available for other corporate purposes. Losses on such support, as well as regulatory restrictions on the Company’s ability to provide such support or the failure to have available or devote sufficient capital or liquidity to support products, may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
Failure to maintain adequate corporate and contingent liquidity may cause BlackRock’s AUM, liquidity and earnings to decline, as well as harm its prospects for growth. 
BlackRock’s ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon a number of factors, including its ability to maintain and grow AUM, its creditworthiness and operating cash flows. Failure to maintain adequate liquidity could lead to unanticipated costs and force BlackRock to revise existing strategic and business initiatives. BlackRock’s access to equity and debt markets and its ability to issue public or private debt, or secure lines of credit or commercial paper back-up lines, on reasonable terms may be limited by adverse market conditions, a reduction in its long- or short-term credit ratings, or changes in government regulations, including tax and interest rates. Failure to obtain funds and/or financing, or any adverse change to the cost of obtaining such funds and/or financing, may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline, curtail its operations and limit or impede its prospects for growth. 
20

Fraud, or the circumvention of controls and risk management policies, could have an adverse effect on BlackRock’s reputation, which may cause the Company’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
Although BlackRock has adopted a comprehensive risk management process and continues to enhance various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risks, it cannot assure that such controls, procedures, policies and systems will successfully identify and manage internal and external risks to its businesses. BlackRock is subject to the risk that its employees, contractors or other third parties may deliberately seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud or act in ways that are inconsistent with the Company’s controls, policies and procedures. Persistent attempts to circumvent policies and controls or repeated incidents involving fraud, conflicts of interests or transgressions of policies and controls could have an adverse effect on BlackRock’s reputation, which could cause costly regulatory inquiries, fines and/or sanctions and may cause the Company’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
BlackRock may be unable to develop new products and services and the development of new products and services may expose BlackRock to additional costs or operational risk. 
BlackRock’s financial performance depends, in part, on its ability to develop, market and manage new investment products and services. The development and introduction of new products and services require continued innovative efforts on the part of BlackRock and may require significant time and resources as well as ongoing support and investment. Substantial risk and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including the implementation of new and appropriate operational controls and procedures, shifting client and market preferences, the introduction of competing products or services and compliance with regulatory requirements. A failure to continue to innovate to introduce new products and services or to successfully manage the risks associated with such products and services may cause BlackRock’s costs to fluctuate, which may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
The failure to recruit and retain employees and develop and implement effective executive succession could lead to the loss of clients and may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
BlackRock’s success is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of its highly skilled workforce and the Company’s ability to plan for the future long-term growth of the business by identifying and developing those employees who can ultimately transition into key roles within BlackRock. The market for qualified fund managers, investment analysts, technology and risk specialists and other professionals is competitive, and factors that affect BlackRock’s ability to attract and retain such employees include the Company’s reputation, the compensation and benefits it provides, and its commitment to effectively managing executive succession, including the development and training of qualified individuals. BlackRock’s ability to attract and retain talent may also be affected if European regulations instituting bonus caps or limiting the amount of compensation that asset managers can pay to certain employees are enacted in the varying formats in which they have been proposed.  
In addition, a percentage of the deferred compensation that BlackRock pays to its employees is tied to the Company’s share price. As such, if BlackRock’s share price were to decrease materially, the retention value of such deferred compensation would decrease. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be successful in its efforts to recruit and retain employees and effectively manage executive succession. If BlackRock is unable to offer competitive compensation or otherwise attract and retain talented individuals, or if it fails to effectively manage executive succession, the Company’s ability to compete effectively and retain its existing clients may be materially impacted. 
Future inorganic transactions may harm the Company’s competitive or financial position if they are not successful. 
BlackRock employs a variety of organic and inorganic strategies intended to enhance earnings, increase product offerings, access new clients, leverage advances in technology and expand into new geographies. Inorganic strategies have included hiring smaller-sized investment teams, and acquiring investment management businesses and other small and medium-sized companies. Inorganic transactions involve a number of financial, accounting, tax, regulatory, geographical and operational challenges and uncertainties, including in some cases the assumption of pre-existing liabilities. Any failure to identify and mitigate these risks through due diligence and indemnification provisions could adversely impact BlackRock’s reputation, may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline, and may harm the Company’s competitive position in the investment management industry. Moreover, there can be no assurances that BlackRock will be able to successfully integrate or realize the intended benefits from future inorganic transactions. 
Investments in real assets such as real estate, infrastructure and energy assets may expose BlackRock and its funds and accounts to new or increased risks and liabilities, as well as reputational harm. 
Investments in real assets, including real estate, infrastructure and energy assets, may expose BlackRock and its funds and accounts to increased risks and liabilities that are inherent in the ownership and management of such assets. These may include:




 

•

construction risks, including labor disputes or work stoppages, shortages of material or interruptions to the availability of necessary equipment;




 

•

accidents, adverse weather, force majeure or catastrophic events, such as explosions, fires or terrorist activity beyond BlackRock’s control;




 

•

personal injury or property damage; 




 

•

failures on the part of third-party managers or sub-contractors appointed in connection with investments or projects to adequately perform their contractual duties or operate in accordance with applicable laws; 




 

•

exposure to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, including those related to permits, government contracting, conservation, exploration and production, tenancy, occupational health and safety, foreign investment and environmental protection; 




 

•

environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, product and waste spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, and unauthorized discharges of products, wastes and other pollutants;




 

•

changes to the supply and demand for properties and/or tenancies or fluctuations in the price of commodities; 
21





 

•

the financial resources of tenants; and




 

•

contingent liabilities on disposition of assets.
The above risks may expose BlackRock’s funds and accounts to additional expenses and liabilities, including costs associated with delays or remediation costs, and increased legal or regulatory costs, all of which could impact the returns earned by BlackRock’s clients.  These risks could also result in direct liability for BlackRock by exposing BlackRock to regulatory sanction or litigation, including claims for compensatory or punitive damages. Similarly, market conditions may change during the course of developments or projects in which BlackRock invests that make such development or project less attractive than at the time it was commenced and potentially harm the investment returns of BlackRock’s clients. The occurrence of any such events may expose BlackRock to reputational harm, divert management’s time and attention away from BlackRock’s business activities or cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.  
Operating in international markets increases BlackRock’s operational, political, regulatory and other risks. 
As a result of BlackRock’s extensive international operations, the Company faces associated operational, regulatory, reputational, political and foreign exchange rate risks, many of which are outside of the Company’s control. The failure of the Company’s systems of internal control to mitigate such risks, or of its operating infrastructure to support its global activities, could result in operational failures and regulatory fines and/or sanctions, which may cause the Company’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
 
Risks Related to KEY THIRD-PARTY Relationships 
The failure of a key vendor to BlackRock to fulfill its obligations could have a material adverse effect on BlackRock’s reputation or business, which may cause the Company’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
BlackRock depends on a number of key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody, risk analytics, market data, market indices and transfer agent roles and other distribution and operational needs. BlackRock performs focused diligence on its vendors in an effort to ensure they operate in accordance with expectations; however, to the extent any significant deficiencies are uncovered, there may be few, or no, feasible alternative vendors available to BlackRock in certain areas. The failure or inability of BlackRock to diversify its sources for key services or the failure of any key vendor to fulfill its obligations could lead to operational and regulatory issues for the Company, including with respect to certain of its products, which could result in reputational harm and may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
Any disruption to the Company’s distribution channels may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
BlackRock relies on a number of third parties to provide distribution, portfolio administration and servicing for certain BlackRock investment management products and services through their various distribution channels. In particular, BlackRock entered into a global distribution agreement with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch in 2006, which is subject to renegotiation at the end of 2016. BlackRock’s ability to maintain strong relationships with its distributors is material to the Company’s future performance. If BlackRock is unable to distribute its products and services successfully, if it experiences an increase in distribution-related costs, or if it is unable to replace or renew existing distribution arrangements, BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings may decline. 
Disruption to the operations of third parties whose functions are integral to BlackRock’s Exchange Traded Fund (“ETF”) platform may adversely affect the prices at which ETFs trade, particularly during periods of market volatility.
BlackRock is the largest provider of ETFs globally. Shares of ETFs trade on stock exchanges at prices at, above or below the ETF’s most recent net asset value (“NAV”). The NAV of an ETF is calculated at the end of each business day and fluctuates with changes in the market value of the ETF’s holdings. The trading price of the ETF’s shares fluctuates continuously throughout trading hours. While an ETF’s creation/redemption feature and the arbitrage mechanism are designed to make it more likely that the ETF’s shares normally will trade at prices close to the ETF’s NAV, exchange prices may deviate significantly from the ETF’s NAV. ETF market prices are subject to numerous potential risks, including trading halts invoked by a stock exchange, inability or unwillingness of market markers, authorized participants, settlement systems or other market participants to perform functions necessary for an ETF’s arbitrage mechanism to function effectively, or significant market volatility. Although BlackRock and other large issuers of ETFs are working with market participants to enhance U.S. equity market resiliency, there can be no assurance that structural reforms will be implemented in a timely or effective fashion, or at all. Moreover, if market events lead to incidences where ETFs trade at prices that deviate significantly from an ETF’s NAV, or trading halts are invoked by the relevant stock exchange or market, investors may lose confidence in ETF products and redeem their holdings, which may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
Legal and Regulatory Risks 
BlackRock is subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world. 
BlackRock’s business is subject to extensive regulation around the world. These regulations subject BlackRock’s business activities to a pervasive array of increasingly detailed operational requirements, compliance with which is costly, time-consuming and complex. BlackRock may be adversely affected by its failure to comply with current laws and regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. Challenges associated with interpreting regulations issued in numerous countries in a globally consistent manner may add to such risks, if regulators in different jurisdictions have inconsistent views or provide only limited regulatory guidance. In particular, violation of applicable laws or regulations could result in fines and/or sanctions, temporary or permanent prohibition of certain activities, reputational harm and related client terminations, suspensions of employees or revocation of their licenses, suspension or termination of investment adviser, broker-dealer or other registrations, or suspension or termination of bank charter or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on BlackRock’s reputation or business and may cause the Company’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. For a more extensive discussion of the laws, regulations and regulators to which BlackRock is subject, see “Item 1 – Business – Regulation.” 
22

Regulatory reforms in the United States and internationally expose BlackRock and its clients to increasing regulatory scrutiny.
In recent years a number of proposals for regulatory reform have been introduced, and the level of regulatory scrutiny to which BlackRock is subject is expected to increase. See “Item 1 – Business – Regulation.” A number of regulatory reforms that have been proposed may require BlackRock to alter its business or operating activities, which could be time-consuming and costly and which may impede the Company’s growth and may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. Regulatory reform may also impact BlackRock’s banking, insurance company and pension fund clients, which could cause them to change their investment strategies or allocations in manners that may be adverse to BlackRock. Key regulatory reforms that may impact the Company include: 




 

•

Designation as a systemically important financial institution: Both the FSB, working with IOSCO, and FSOC are considering potential systemic risk related to asset management. In July 2014, the FSOC issued a statement indicating that their review would focus on products and activities, and FSOC subsequently released a request for information addressing: market liquidity and fund redemption risk, the use of leverage, operational risk, and the resolution of asset managers including the transition of client assets. In June 2015, IOSCO issued a statement indicating they also favored a products and activities approach in their review of asset managers, and in July 2015, the FSB made a similar announcement.  In September 2015, the FSB released a statement indicating that their review would focus on: market liquidity and fund redemption risk, the use of leverage, securities lending practices, operational risk, and risks from pension funds and sovereign wealth funds. Although FSOC, IOSCO and FSB have shifted from a focus on designating firms and/or funds as systemically important (i.e., G-SIFI or SIFI designations), the process is ongoing and may lead to designations in the future.  In the event that BlackRock receives a SIFI designation, under the DFA, the Federal Reserve System is charged with establishing enhanced regulatory requirements for nonbank financial institutions and BlackRock could become subject to its direct supervision.  If BlackRock were designated a SIFI or G-SIFI, it could become subject to enhanced prudential, capital, supervisory and other requirements, such as risk-based capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, resolution plan and credit exposure report requirements, concentration limits, a contingent capital requirement, enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits and overall risk management requirements. Requirements such as these, which were designed to regulate banking institutions, would be extremely burdensome for BlackRock, unless they were modified to be applicable to an asset manager. No proposals have been made indicating how such measures would be adapted for asset managers, if at all. 




 

•

The Volcker Rule: Provisions of the DFA referred to as the “Volcker Rule” created a new section of the BHC Act that places limitations on the ability of banks and their subsidiaries to engage in proprietary trading and to invest in and transact with certain private investment funds, including hedge funds, private equity funds and funds of funds (collectively “covered funds”). Conformance with the Volcker Rule’s requirements may reduce the level of market making and liquidity activities of several of BlackRock’s trading counterparties, which may adversely impact the liquidity and, in some cases, the pricing of various financial instruments in which BlackRock client accounts invest. Because the Federal Reserve currently treats BlackRock as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC, BlackRock may be required to conform its activities to the requirements of the Volcker Rule. On December 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve announced a second extension to the Volcker Rule conformance period, giving banking entities until July 21, 2016, to conform investments in and relationships with covered funds and foreign funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013 (“legacy covered funds”). The Federal Reserve also announced its intention to grant banking entities an additional one-year extension of the conformance period until July 21, 2017, to conform ownership interests in and relationships with these legacy covered funds. BlackRock has chosen to commence a conformance program for covered funds, including legacy covered funds. The Volcker Rule’s restrictions may, among other things, limit BlackRock’s ability to invest in covered funds and require BlackRock to remove its name from the names of its covered funds. The Volcker Rule may also require BlackRock to sell certain seed and co-investments that it holds in covered funds, which may occur at a discount to existing carrying value, depending on market conditions. 
 




 

•

Money market mutual fund reform: Approximately 3% of BlackRock’s AUM as of December 31, 2015, consisted of assets in U.S. MMFs, of which institutional prime or institutional municipal MMFs (including offshore funds that feed into such MMFs) comprised approximately 2%. In July 2014, the SEC adopted new rules designed to reform the regulatory structure governing MMFs and to address the perceived systemic risks that such funds present. The new rules, to which U.S. MMFs must conform by October 2016, require institutional prime and institutional municipal MMFs to employ a floating net asset value per share method of pricing, which allows the daily share prices of these funds to fluctuate along with changes in the market-based value of fund assets. Retail MMFs may continue operating with a constant net asset value per share.  The rules also provide for new tools for institutional and retail MMFs’ boards designed to address market shocks, including liquidity fees and redemption gates. The new rules do not apply to government (non-municipal) MMFs, although such funds may “opt-in” to the new liquidity fee and redemption gate provisions if previously disclosed to investors. Implementation of these new rules requires the development of new or additional systems by BlackRock and the funds’ service providers. BlackRock has commenced efforts to move its MMFs into compliance in advance of the deadline.  The impact of the rules that affect the structure of the funds on BlackRock’s business remains uncertain as clients must decide which products fit their investment needs.  The new rules will, however, affect certain of BlackRock’s funds’ investment strategies, portfolio liquidity and return potential. The new rules will also result in changes to BlackRock’s existing U.S. MMFs and may reduce the attractiveness of certain U.S. MMFs to investors. 




 

•

Regulation of swaps and derivatives: The implementation of DFA regulations, similar regulations in the EU and other global jurisdictions relating to swaps and derivatives could impact the manner in which BlackRock-advised funds and accounts use and trade swaps and other derivatives, increasing the costs of derivatives trading for BlackRock’s clients. Various global rules and regulations applicable to the use of financial products by funds, accounts and counterparties that have been adopted or proposed will require BlackRock to build and implement new compliance monitoring procedures to address the enhanced level of oversight to which it and its clients will be subject. These rules will also introduce new central clearing requirements for certain swap transactions and will require that certain swaps be executed only on or through electronic trading venues (as opposed to over the phone or other execution methods), with which BlackRock will have to comply. In the United States, certain interest rate swaps and certain index credit default swaps are already subject to the DFA central clearing and electronic trading venue requirements, with additional products and asset classes potentially becoming subject to these requirements in 2016 and beyond.  For swaps and security-based swaps that are not centrally cleared, U.S. bank regulators recently adopted rules that could require BlackRock-advised funds and accounts to post margin payments when trading with a swap dealer that is regulated by one of the U.S. bank regulators. The CFTC also recently adopted similar margin rules applicable when trading non-cleared swaps with swap dealers who are not regulated by one of the U.S. bank regulators. These rules have the potential to increase the complexity and cost of trading non-cleared derivatives for BlackRock's clients. In EMEA, central clearing requirements will be implemented 
23





 


in a phased manner and will apply to BlackRock funds and accounts beginning in the latter half of 2016. The new rules and regulations may produce regulatory inconsistencies in global derivatives trading rules and increase BlackRock’s operational and legal risks. 




 

•

SEC asset management industry initiatives: The SEC and its staff continue to engage in various initiatives and reviews that seek to improve and modernize the regulatory structure governing the asset management industry, and registered investment companies in particular. During 2015, the SEC proposed, among other things: enhanced reporting by investment advisors, enhanced reporting on registered mutual funds, new rules for liquidity risk management in registered funds, and new rules governing the use of derivatives and leverage by registered investment companies and business development companies. Furthermore, in June 2015, the SEC issued a request for comments regarding practices related to ETFs, which is widely expected to result in a future rulemaking.  The SEC has also indicated an intention to propose new rules for the stress testing of registered investment companies and transition planning by asset managers, including the transfer of client assets.  The SEC’s focus has also been directed toward risk identification and controls in various areas, including the use of derivatives and other trading practices (as reflected in the SEC’s late December 2015 rule proposal referenced  in “Item 1 – Business – Regulation – Regulation of Swaps and Derivatives” above), cyber-security and the evaluation of systemic risks. While these proposals have yet to be finalized into new rules, any new rules, guidance or regulatory initiatives resulting from these efforts could require BlackRock to alter its business or operating activities or fund management practices, or increase its public reporting and disclosure requirements, which could be time-consuming and costly and which may impede BlackRock's growth and may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.




 

•

Revised DoL Fiduciary Rule: In April 2015, the DoL proposed a new regulation defining the term "fiduciary" for purposes of the fiduciary responsibility provisions of Title I of ERISA and the prohibited transaction exercise tax provisions of the IRS. The rule has been highly criticized by industry participants, particularly retail intermediaries, and BlackRock is engaging with the DoL, trade associations and industry participants in an effort to affect revisions to the proposed rule. To the extent the rule is enacted as written, it will require BlackRock to re-paper a number of its distribution relationships, create compliance and operational challenges for BlackRock’s distribution partners and may limit BlackRock’s ability to provide certain useful services and education to its clients.




 

•

Increased international regulatory scrutiny: In addition to the extensive scrutiny BlackRock faces from U.S.-based regulators, the Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to the authority of numerous governmental and regulatory bodies globally, in particular in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. These regulators have imposed numerous regulations, guidelines and standards on the activities of BlackRock and its subsidiaries covering a variety of areas, including capital resources requirements, marketing activities, client and investor protections, senior management arrangements, and system and control requirements. In the event that BlackRock or any of its subsidiaries fails to comply with these often complex guidelines, regulations and standards, the regulators have broad powers to suspend or revoke any licenses they may have granted and/or to impose fines and/or sanctions. 
 




 

•

European Union Directives: In the aftermath of the financial crisis, the European Commission (“EC”) initiated a plan for EU financial reform, including a number of consultations and initiatives intended to improve retail investor protections, which the EC reflected in new or updated Directives and regulations. The resulting review of MiFID, introduction of AIFMD, the introduction of MiFID II and the revision of the UCITS Directive have increased the compliance, disclosure and other obligations BlackRock faces in the European Economic Area. Once fully implemented, these Directives will have significant and wide-ranging impacts on EU securities and derivative markets, products and distribution, and internal governance arrangements, which will directly and indirectly impact BlackRock's EU regulated subsidiaries and other group companies.




 

•

Reform of European Retail Distribution: BlackRock must also comply with retail distribution rules aimed at enhancing consumer protections, overhauling mutual fund fee structures by banning the payment of commissions to distributors and increasing professionalism in the retail investment sector. The rules were originally introduced in the United Kingdom in 2012 and similar rules have since been introduced in other jurisdictions where BlackRock operates such as the Netherlands, and are under discussion elsewhere. Similarly, MiFID II will contain a ban on certain advisers recovering commissions and other nonmonetary benefits from fund managers. These rules will lead to greater fragmentation of distribution rules and may lead to changes to BlackRock’s client servicing and distribution models, in particular affecting the fees BlackRock is able to charge to its clients and the commissions it is able to pay to its distribution partners.
Legal proceedings may cause the Company’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
BlackRock is subject to a number of sources of potential legal liability and the Company, certain of the investment funds it manages and certain of its subsidiaries and employees have been named as defendants in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation arising in connection with BlackRock’s activities. Certain of BlackRock’s subsidiaries and employees are also subject to periodic examination, special inquiries and potential proceedings by regulatory authorities, including the SEC, Federal Reserve, OCC, DoL, CFTC and FCA. Similarly, from time to time, BlackRock receives subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and regulatory authorities in connection with certain industry-wide, company-specific or other investigations or proceedings. These examinations, inquiries and proceedings, have in the past and could in the future, if compliance failures or other violations are found, cause the relevant regulator to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations. Any such action may also result in litigation by investors in BlackRock’s funds, other BlackRock clients or by BlackRock’s shareholders, which could harm the Company’s reputation and may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline, potentially harm the investment returns of the applicable fund, or result in the Company being liable for damages. 
In addition, when clients retain BlackRock to manage their assets or provide them with products or services, they typically specify contractual requirements or guidelines that BlackRock must observe in the provision of its services. A failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could expose BlackRock to lawsuits, harm its reputation or cause clients to withdraw assets or terminate contracts. 
As BlackRock’s business continues to grow, the Company must routinely address conflicts of interest, as well as the perception of conflicts of interest, between itself and its clients, employees or vendors. In addition, the SEC and other regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts. BlackRock has procedures and controls in place that are designed to detect and address these issues. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and if the Company fails, or appears to fail, to appropriately deal with any conflict of interest, it may face reputational damage, litigation, regulatory proceedings, or penalties, fines and/or sanctions, any of which may cause BlackRock’s AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
24

BlackRock is subject to banking regulations that may limit its business activities. 
As described in “Item 1-Business-Regulation”, PNC owns approximately 22% of BlackRock’s capital stock. Based on the Federal Reserve’s interpretation of the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve takes the position that this ownership interest causes BlackRock to be treated as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC for purposes of the BHC Act, thereby subjecting BlackRock to banking regulation, including the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve. Such banking regulation limits the activities and the types of businesses that a nonbank subsidiary may conduct. The Federal Reserve has broad enforcement authority over nonbank subsidiaries, including the power to prohibit them from conducting any activity that, in the Federal Reserve’s opinion, is unauthorized or constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice, and to impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations. PNC is regulated as a “financial holding company” under the BHC Act, which allows PNC and BlackRock to engage in a much broader set of activities than would otherwise be permitted under the BHC Act; any failure of PNC to maintain its status as a financial holding company could result in substantial limitations on certain BlackRock activities and its growth. 
In addition, BlackRock’s trust bank subsidiary, which is organized as a national bank, is separately subject to banking regulation by the OCC. The OCC has broad supervisory and enforcement authority over BlackRock’s trust bank subsidiary and also subjects it to capital requirements. Being subject to banking regulation may put BlackRock at a competitive disadvantage because certain of its competitors are not subject to these limitations. 
Failure to comply with ownership reporting requirements could result in harm to BlackRock’s reputation and may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
Of note among the various international regulations to which BlackRock is subject are the extensive and increasingly stringent regulatory reporting requirements that necessitate the monitoring and reporting of issuer exposure levels (thresholds) across the holdings of managed funds and accounts and those of the Company. The specific triggers and the reporting methods that these threshold filings entail vary significantly by regulator and across jurisdictions. BlackRock continues to invest in technology, training and its employees to enhance its monitoring and reporting functions and improve the timeliness and accuracy of its disclosures. Despite these investments, the complexity of the various threshold reporting requirements combined with the breadth of the assets managed by the Company and high volume of securities trading have caused errors and omissions to occur in the past, and pose a risk that errors or omissions will occasionally occur in the future. Any such errors may expose BlackRock to monetary penalties, which could have an adverse effect on BlackRock’s reputation and may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. 
New tax legislation or changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws, treaties and regulations or challenges to BlackRock’s historical taxation practices may adversely affect BlackRock’s effective tax rate, business and overall financial condition. 
BlackRock’s businesses may be affected by new tax legislation or regulations, or the modification of existing tax laws, regulations and rulings, by U.S. or non-U.S. authorities. In particular, FATCA and the CRS have introduced new investor onboarding, withholding and reporting rules aimed at ensuring persons with financial assets outside of their tax residence country pay appropriate taxes. FATCA and CRS will impact both U.S. and non-U.S. funds and subject BlackRock to additional administrative burdens. Similarly, certain EU Member States have enacted FTTs, which impose taxation on a broad range of financial instrument and derivatives transactions. Several other EU Member States continue to discuss introducing FTTs. If introduced as proposed, FTTs could have an adverse effect on BlackRock’s financial results and on clients’ performance results. In addition, in October 2015 the OECD released its final BEPS package in an effort to curb the use of certain tax regimes and elements of tax planning, primarily in a cross-border context. The final package was endorsed by the G20 and is subject to implementation. BEPS contains a number of provisions that may negatively impact cross-border investing using commingled investment vehicles. In addition, in January 2016, the European Commission announced an Anti-Tax Avoidance Package (“EU Package”) for consideration by the European Parliament and Council containing measures to regulate certain elements of tax planning further and to boost tax transparency.  Once implemented, the BEPS package and the EU Package could curtail the amount of investments channeled by, and have unintended taxation consequences for, funds as well as the BlackRock’s overall tax position, which could adversely affect BlackRock’s financial condition and that of its clients. 
The Company also manages significant assets in products and accounts that have specific tax objectives, which could be adversely impacted by changes in tax law or policy, particularly with respect to U.S. municipal income, the U.S. individual income tax rate on qualified dividends and long-term capital gains and, globally, alternative products. The application of complex tax regulations involves numerous uncertainties and, in the normal course of business, U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities may review and challenge BlackRock’s historical tax positions. These challenges may result in adjustments to BlackRock’s tax position, or impact the timing or amount of, taxable income, deductions or other tax allocations, which may adversely affect BlackRock’s effective tax rate and overall financial condition. 
Risks Related to BlackRock’s SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDER 
PNC owns a large portion of BlackRock’s capital stock. Future sales or distributions of BlackRock’s common stock in the public market by the Company or PNC could adversely affect the trading price of BlackRock’s common stock. 
As of December 31, 2015, PNC owned 22% of the Company’s capital stock. Sales or distributions of a substantial number of shares of BlackRock’s common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales or distributions might occur, may cause the market price of BlackRock’s common stock to decline. 
PNC has agreed to vote as a stockholder in accordance with the recommendation of BlackRock’s Board of Directors, and certain actions will require special board approval or the prior approval of PNC. 
As discussed in BlackRock’s proxy statement, PNC has agreed to vote all of its voting shares in accordance with the recommendation of BlackRock’s Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of its stockholder agreement with BlackRock. As a consequence, if the shares held by PNC constitute a substantial portion of the outstanding voting shares, matters submitted to a stockholder vote that require a majority or a plurality of votes for approval, including elections of directors, will have a substantial number of shares voted in accordance with the determination of the BlackRock Board of Directors. This arrangement has the effect of concentrating a significant block of voting control over BlackRock in its Board of Directors, whether or not stockholders agree with any particular determination of the Board. 
25

As discussed in BlackRock’s proxy statement, pursuant to BlackRock’s stockholder agreement with PNC, the following may not be done without prior approval of all of the independent directors, or at least two-thirds of the directors, then in office: 




 

•

appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer of BlackRock; 




 

•

any merger, issuance of shares or similar transaction in which beneficial ownership of a majority of the total voting power of BlackRock capital stock would be held by persons different than those currently holding such majority of the total voting power, or any sale of all or substantially all assets of BlackRock; 




 

•

any acquisition of any person or business which has a consolidated net income after taxes for its preceding fiscal year that equals or exceeds 20% of BlackRock’s consolidated net income after taxes for its preceding fiscal year if such acquisition involves the current or potential issuance of BlackRock capital stock constituting more than 10% of the total voting power of BlackRock capital stock issued and outstanding immediately after completion of such acquisition; 




 

•

any acquisition of any person or business constituting a line of business that is materially different from the lines of business BlackRock and its controlled affiliates are engaged in at that time if such acquisition involves consideration in excess of 10% of the total assets of BlackRock on a consolidated basis; 




 

•

except for repurchases otherwise permitted under the stockholder agreement, any repurchase by BlackRock or any subsidiary of shares of BlackRock capital stock such that after giving effect to such repurchase BlackRock and its subsidiaries shall have repurchased more than 10% of the total voting power of BlackRock capital stock within the 12-month period ending on the date of such repurchase; 




 

•

any amendment to BlackRock’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws; or 




 

•

any matter requiring stockholder approval pursuant to the rules of the NYSE. 
Additionally, BlackRock may not enter into any of the following transactions without the prior approval of PNC: 




 

•

any sale of any subsidiary of BlackRock, the annualized revenue of which, together with the annualized revenue of any other subsidiaries disposed of within the same year, are more than 20% of the annualized revenue of BlackRock for the preceding fiscal year on a consolidated basis; 




 

•

for so long as BlackRock is a subsidiary of PNC for purposes of the BHC Act, entering into any business or activity that is prohibited for any such subsidiary under the BHC Act; 
 




 

•

any amendment of any provision of a stockholder agreement between BlackRock and any stockholder beneficially owning greater than 20% of BlackRock capital stock that would be viewed by a reasonable person as being adverse to PNC or materially more favorable to the rights of any stockholder beneficially owning greater than 20% of BlackRock capital stock than to PNC; 




 

•

any amendment, modification, repeal or waiver of BlackRock’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws that would be viewed by a reasonable person as being adverse to the rights of PNC or more favorable to the rights of any stockholder beneficially owning greater than 20% of BlackRock capital stock, or any settlement or consent in a regulatory enforcement matter that would be reasonably likely to cause PNC or any of its affiliates to suffer regulatory disqualification, suspension of registration or license or other material adverse regulatory consequences; or 




 

•

a voluntary bankruptcy or similar filing by BlackRock. 
Item 1B