Item 1A under the heading "Risk Factors" even if new information becomes available or
other events occur in the future. We have identified these forward-looking statements below and the risk factors described in Item 1A under the heading "Risk Factors" in order to take advantage of the
safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements
are contained below and in the risk factors described in Item 1A under the heading "Risk Factors." 

Coronary Stents  



•Volatility
in the coronary stent market, competitive offerings and the timing of receipt of regulatory approvals to market existing and anticipated drug-eluting stent
technology and other coronary and peripheral stent platforms;
•Our
ability to launch our TAXUS® Express2 coronary stent system in Japan during the first half of 2007, and to launch our next-generation
drug-eluting stent system, the TAXUS® Liberté™ coronary stent system, in the U.S. during the second half of 2006 and to maintain or expand our worldwide market
leadership positions through reinvestment in our drug-eluting stent program;
•The
continued availability of our TAXUS stent system in sufficient quantities and mix, our ability to prevent disruptions to our TAXUS stent system manufacturing processes
and to maintain or replenish inventory levels consistent with forecasted demand around the world as we transition to next-generation stent products;
•The
impact of new drug-eluting stents on the size of the coronary stent market, distribution of share within the coronary stent market in the U.S. and around the world, the
average number of stents used per procedure and average selling prices;
•The
overall performance of and continued physician confidence in our and other drug-eluting stents and the results of drug-eluting stent clinical trials undertaken by us,
our competitors or other third parties;
•Continued
growth in the rate of physician adoption of drug-eluting stent technology in our Europe and Inter-Continental markets;
•Our
ability to take advantage of our position as one of two early entrants in the U.S. drug-eluting stent market, to anticipate competitor products as they enter the market
and to respond to the challenges presented as additional competitors enter the U.S. drug-eluting stent market; and 

19




 




•Our
ability to manage inventory levels, accounts receivable, gross margins and operating expenses relating to our TAXUS stent system and other product franchises and to
react effectively to worldwide economic and political conditions. 


Litigation and Regulatory Compliance  



•The
effect of litigation, risk management practices, including self-insurance, and compliance activities on our loss contingency, legal provision and cash flow;
•The
impact of stockholder derivative and class action, patent, product liability and other litigation; and
•Any
conditions imposed in resolving, or any inability to resolve, outstanding warning letters or other FDA matters, as well as risks generally associated with regulatory
compliance, quality systems standards and complaint-handling. 


Innovation  



•Our
ability successfully to complete planned clinical trials, to obtain regulatory approvals and to develop and launch products on a timely basis within cost estimates,
including the successful completion of in-process projects from purchased research and development;
•Our
ability to manage research and development and other operating expenses consistent with our expected revenue growth over the next twelve months;
•Our
ability to fund and achieve benefits from our focus on internal research and development and external alliances as well as our ability to capitalize on opportunities
across our businesses;
•Our
ability to develop products and technologies successfully in addition to our TAXUS coronary stent technology;
•Our
failure to succeed at, or our decision to discontinue, any of our growth initiatives;
•Our
ability to integrate the acquisitions and other strategic alliances we have consummated;
•Our
decision to exercise options to purchase certain companies party to our strategic alliances and our ability to fund with cash or common stock these and other
acquisitions; and
•The
timing, size and nature of strategic initiatives, market opportunities and research and development platforms available to us and the ultimate cost and success of these
initiatives. 


International Markets  



•Increasing
dependence on international sales to achieve growth;
•Risks
associated with international operations including compliance with local legal and regulatory requirements; and
•The
potential effect of foreign currency fluctuations and interest rate fluctuations on our revenues, expenses and resulting margins. 


Liquidity  



•Our
ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fund operations and capital expenditures, as well as our strategic investments over the next twelve months and to maintain
borrowing flexibility beyond the next twelve months;
•Our
ability to access the public capital markets and to issue debt or equity securities on terms reasonably acceptable to us; 

20




 




•Our
ability to achieve a 23 percent effective tax rate, excluding certain charges, during 2006 and to recover substantially all of our deferred tax assets; and
•Our
ability to align expenses with future expected revenue levels and reallocate resources to support our future growth. 


Other  



•Risks
associated with significant changes made or to be made to our organizational structure or to the membership of our executive committee; and
•Risks
associated with our proposed acquisition of Guidant Corporation, including, among other things, the indebtedness we will incur and the integration challenges we will
face after consummation of the acquisition. 


        Several
important factors, in addition to the specific factors discussed in connection with each forward-looking statement individually and the risk factors described in Item 1A under
the heading "Risk Factors," could affect our future results and growth rates and could cause those results and rates to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements and the
risk factors contained in this report. These additional factors include, among other things, future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions, new product introductions,
demographic trends, intellectual property, financial market conditions and future business decisions made by us and our competitors, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and
many of which are beyond our control. Therefore, we wish to caution each reader of this report to consider carefully these factors as well as
the specific factors discussed with each forward-looking statement and risk factor in this report and as disclosed in our filings with the SEC. These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the
future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed
in this report. 

21






<A
NAME="page_ce1081_1_22">  



<A
NAME="ce1081_item_1a._risk_factors"> 
 
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS        

        In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be
considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This section contains forward-
looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements set forth at the beginning of Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Additional
risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

        <FONT
SIZE=2>We also face certain risks in connection with our proposed acquisition of Guidant Corporation as described above in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. We encourage
you to consider the risks below under the caption "—Risks Related to the Proposed Acquisition and Guidant" and the risk factors set forth in our registration statement on Form S-4
filed with the SEC on February 6, 2006 (Registration No. 333-131608) for additional risk factors relating to our proposed acquisition of Guidant Corporation.

Risks Related to Our Business  

        We are subject to extensive medical device regulation which may impede or hinder the approval process for our products and, in some cases, may not ultimately
result in approval or may result in the recall or seizure of previously approved products.  

        Our products, development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (the FDC Act), by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Under the FDC Act, medical devices must receive FDA clearance or
approval before they can be commercially marketed in the U.S. In addition, most major markets for medical devices outside the
U.S. require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA for new
products, or with respect to enhancements or modifications to existing products, could: 



•take
a significant period of time;
•require
the expenditure of substantial resources;
•involve
rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing;
•require
changes to the products; and
•result
in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. 


        Even
after products have received marketing approval or clearance, product approvals and clearances by the FDA can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the
occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. There can be no assurance that we will receive the required clearances from the FDA for new products or modifications to existing products
on a timely basis or that any FDA approval will not be subsequently withdrawn. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in fines, delays or
suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. The failure to receive product approval clearance on a timely basis,
suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products or the withdrawal of product approval by the FDA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations. 

22




 


        We may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.  

        As a device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA's Quality System
Regulation (QSR) requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the
federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is
rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic
inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. 

        In
that regard, we are currently taking remedial action in response to certain deficiencies of our quality systems as cited by the FDA in FDA warning letters to us. For example, we
received several warning letters from the FDA in 2005 with respect to our global quality-control systems and in 2004 with respect to our auditory product line. In addition, on January 26, 2006,
we received a corporate warning letter from the FDA notifying us of serious regulatory problems at three facilities and advising us that our corporate wide corrective action plan relating to three
warning letters previously issued to us in 2005 was inadequate. As also stated in this FDA warning letter, the FDA will not grant our requests for exportation certificates to foreign governments or
approve pre-market approval applications for our class III devices to which the quality control or current good manufacturing practices deficiencies described in the letter are reasonably
related until the deficiencies described in the letter have been corrected. If we are unable to resolve the issues raised by the FDA in its warning letters to the satisfaction of the FDA on a timely
basis, we may not be able able to launch our new class III devices as planned, including our Taxus® Liberté™ drug-eluting stent system in the United
States in the second half of 2006. 

        We
may face enforcement actions in connection with these FDA warning letters, including injunctive relief and civil fines. While we are working with the FDA to resolve these issues, this
work has required and will continue to require the dedication of significant incremental internal and external resources. There can be no assurances regarding the length of time it will take to
resolve these issues. In addition, if our remedial actions are not satisfactory to the FDA, the FDA may take further regulatory actions against us, including but not limited to, seizing our product
inventory, obtaining a court injunction against further marketing of our products or assessing civil monetary penalties. If we or our manufacturers fail to adhere to QSR or ISO requirements, this
could delay production of our products and lead to fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances, recalls or other consequences, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition or results of operations. 

        Pending and future intellectual property litigation could be costly and disruptive to us.  

        We operate in an industry that is susceptible to significant intellectual property litigation and, in recent years, it has been common for companies in the
medical device field to aggressively challenge the patent rights of other companies in order to prevent the marketing of new devices. We are currently the subject of various patent litigation
proceedings, including the proceedings described in more detail under Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Intellectual property litigation is expensive,
complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. Pending or future patent litigation may result in significant royalty or other payments or injunctions that can prevent the sale of
products and may significantly divert the attention of our technical and management personnel. In the event that our right to market any of our products is successfully challenged, and if we fail to
obtain a required license 

23




 


or
are unable to design around a patent, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 


        We may not be able effectively to protect our intellectual property rights which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.  

        The interventional medicine market in which we primarily participate is in large part technology driven. Physician customers, particularly in interventional
cardiology, move quickly to new products and new technologies. As a result, intellectual property rights, particularly patents and trade secrets, play a significant role in product development and
differentiation. However, intellectual property litigation to defend or create market advantage is inherently complex and unpredictable. Furthermore, appellate courts frequently overturn lower court
patent decisions. 

        In
addition, competing parties frequently file multiple suits to leverage patent portfolios across product lines, technologies and geographies and to balance risk and exposure between
the parties. In some cases, several competitors are parties in the same proceeding, or in a series of related proceedings, or litigate multiple features of a single class of devices. These forces
frequently drive settlement not only of individual cases, but also of a series of pending and potentially related and unrelated cases. In addition, although monetary and injunctive relief is typically
sought, remedies and restitution are generally not determined until the conclusion of the proceedings and are frequently modified on appeal. Accordingly, the outcomes of individual cases are difficult
to time, predict or quantify and are often dependent upon the outcomes of other cases in other geographies. 

        Several
third parties have asserted that our current and former stent systems infringe patents owned or licensed by them. We have similarly asserted that stent systems or other products
sold by these companies infringe patents owned or licensed by us. Adverse outcomes in one or more of these
proceedings against us could limit our ability to sell certain stent products in certain jurisdictions, or reduce our operating margin on the sale of these products. In addition, damage awards related
to historical sales could be material. 

        Patents
and other proprietary rights are and will be essential to our business, and our ability to compete effectively with other companies will be dependent upon the proprietary nature
of our technologies. We rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations, strategic alliances and licensing opportunities to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive
position. We pursue a policy of generally obtaining patent protection in both the U.S. and abroad for patentable subject matter in our proprietary devices and also attempt to review third-party
patents and patent applications to the extent publicly available to develop an effective patent strategy, avoid infringement of third-party patents, identify licensing opportunities and monitor the
patent claims of others. We currently own numerous U.S. and foreign patents and have numerous patent applications pending. We also are party to various license agreements pursuant to which patent
rights have been obtained or granted in consideration for cash, cross-licensing rights or royalty payments. No assurance can be made that any pending or future patent applications will result in
issued patents, that any current or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, or that our patents will not be found invalid. 

        In
addition, we may have to take legal action in the future to protect our patents, trade secrets or know-how or to assert them against claimed infringement by others. Any legal action
of that type could be costly and time consuming to us and no assurances can be made that any lawsuit will be successful. We are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of
patent infringement and other intellectual property-related actions. We are involved in numerous patent-related claims with our competitors, including Johnson & Johnson. 

24




 


        The
invalidation of key patents or proprietary rights that we own, or an unsuccessful outcome in lawsuits to protect our intellectual property, could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial position or results of operations. 

        Pending and future product liability claims and other litigation, including private securities litigation and shareholder derivative suits, may adversely affect
our business, reputation and ability to attract and retain customers.  

        The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices of the types that we produce entail an inherent risk of product liability claims. Many of the medical
devices that we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. A number of factors could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or
death of, a patient with respect to these or
other products that we manufacture or sell, including component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information. These
factors could result in product liability claims, a recall of one or more of our products or a safety alert relating to one or more of our products. Product liability claims may be brought by
individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class. 

        We
are currently the subject of numerous product liability claims and other litigation, including private securities litigation and shareholder derivative suits including, but not
limited to, the claims and litigation described under Item 3. Legal Proceedings. In addition, if the Guidant acquisition is consummated,
we will also be subject to certain product liability claims and other litigation of Guidant. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or quantify.
Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, including not only actual damages, but also punitive damages. The magnitude of the potential loss
relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, the cost to defend against any future litigation may be significant. Further, we are largely self-insured
for product liability claims and securities litigation. As a result of economic factors currently impacting the insurance industry, meaningful product liability and securities litigation insurance
coverage has become unavailable due to its economically prohibitive cost. The absence of third-party insurance coverage increases our potential exposure to unanticipated claims and adverse decisions.
Product liability claims, product recalls, securities litigation and other litigation in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
position, results of operations or liquidity. 

        We derive a significant portion of our revenue from the sale of drug-eluting coronary stent systems and a decline in our market share of drug-eluting stents may
adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  

        Drug-eluting coronary stent revenues represented approximately 41% of our consolidated net sales during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. We have
experienced declines in our U.S. drug-eluting stent revenues during the second half of 2005 as compared to the same period in the prior year largely as a result of a reduction in market share, as well
as pricing pressure. Our TAXUS® coronary stent system and Johnson & Johnson's CYPHER® drug-eluting stent system are currently the only two drug-eluting stents available in the
U.S. market. During the first three quarters of 2005, we experienced sequential declines in our market share. In the fourth quarter of 2005, our market share stabilized and was relatively consistent
with the prior quarter. Our share of the drug-eluting stent market, as well as unit prices, are expected to continue to be adversely affected as additional significant competitors enter the
drug-eluting stent market, which began during the third quarter of 2005 internationally and is expected to continue to occur during the second half of 2007 in the U.S. Companies have recently obtained
regulatory approval to market and sell their drug-eluting stents in the European market. In July 2005, Medtronic, Inc. received approval from European regulators to begin commercial
sales of its Endeavor drug-eluting stent system in the European market. Guidant received similar regulatory 

25




 


approval
to commence European sales of its XIENCE™ V drug-eluting stent system on January 30, 2006. If the acquisition is consummated and following Abbott's acquisition of Guidant's
drug-eluting stent portfolio, Abbott will sell the XIENCE™ V drug-eluting stent in competition with us. In addition, on February 17, 2006, Conor Medsystems, Inc. received a
CE Mark for its CoStar™ paclitaxel-eluting stent system. 

        A
material decline in our drug-eluting stent revenue would have a significant adverse impact on our future operating results. The most significant variables that may impact the size of
the drug-eluting stent market and our position within that market include: 



•entry
of additional competitors in international markets and the U.S.;
•declines
in the average selling prices of drug-eluting stent systems;
•variations
in clinical results or product performance of our and our competitors' products;
•new
competitive product launches;
•delayed
or limited regulatory approvals and reimbursement policies;
•litigation
related to intellectual property;
•continued
physician confidence in our technology;
•the
average number of stents used per procedure;
•expansion
of indications for use;
•a
reduction in the overall number of procedures performed;
•the
international adoption rate of drug-eluting stent technology; and
•the
level of supply of our drug-eluting stent system and competitive stent systems. 


        The
manufacture of our TAXUS® coronary stent system involves the integration of multiple technologies, critical components, raw materials and complex processes. Significant
favorable or unfavorable changes in forecasted demand, as well as disruptions associated with the TAXUS® stent manufacturing process, may impact our inventory levels and our ability to
provide the TAXUS® stent system in sufficient quantities and mix. Variability in expected demand or the timing of the launch of next-generation products may result in excess or expired
inventory positions and future inventory charges, which may adversely impact our results from operations. Also, if the Guidant acquisition is consummated, we expect to share with Abbott rights to
Guidant's XIENCE™ V drug-eluting stent program. As a result, delays in receipt of regulatory approvals for the XIENCE™ V drug-eluting stent system, Abbott's inability to supply
us with sufficient quantities of the XIENCE™ V drug-eluting stent system or material nonacceptance of these stents in the marketplace could adversely affect our results from
operations, as well as our ability to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors in the drug-eluting stent market as the leading company with two drug-eluting stent programs. 

        We may not be successful in our strategic acquisitions of, investments in or alliances with, other companies and businesses, which have been a significant source
of historical growth for us.  

        Our strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances have historically been intended to further expand our ability to offer customers effective, quality medical
devices that satisfy their interventional needs. Many of these alliances involve equity investments and often give us the option to acquire the other company or assets of the other company in the
future. If we are unsuccessful in our acquisitions, investments and alliances, we may be unable to continue to grow our business significantly or may record asset impairment charges in the future.
These acquisitions, investments and alliances have 

26




 


historically
been significant sources of growth for us. The success of any acquisition, investment or alliance that we may undertake will depend on a number of factors, including: 



•our
ability to identify suitable opportunities for acquisition, investment or alliance, if at all;
•our
ability to finance any future acquisition, investment or alliance on terms acceptable to us, if at all;
•whether
we are able to establish an acquisition, investment or alliance on terms that are satisfactory to us, if at all;
•the
strength of the other companies' underlying technology and ability to execute;
•litigation
related to these technologies; and
•our
ability to successfully integrate the acquired company or business with our existing business, including the ability to adequately fund acquired in-process research and
development projects. 


        If
we are unsuccessful in our acquisitions, investments and alliances, we may be unable to continue to grow our business significantly or may record asset impairment charges in the
future. 

        Our future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, which requires significant research and development, clinical trials and regulatory
approvals, all of which are very expensive and time-consuming and may not result in a commercially viable product.  

        In order to develop new products and improve current product offerings, we focus our research and development programs largely on the development of
next-generation and novel technology offerings across multiple programs and divisions, particularly in our drug-eluting stent program. We expect to launch our TAXUS®
Liberté™ coronary stent system in the U.S. during the second half of 2006, subject to regulatory approval. If we are unable to develop and launch these and other products as
anticipated, our ability to maintain or expand our market position in the drug-eluting stent market may be adversely impacted. 


        Further,
we anticipate continuing our increased focus and spending on areas outside of drug-eluting stent technologies. We believe our focus will be primarily on technologies in which we
have already made significant investments, including neuromodulation, endoscopic systems, carotid stenting and bifurcation stenting, but may also extend into other medical device opportunities.
However, given their early stage of development, there can be no assurance that these and other technologies will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market
acceptance. In addition, due to the substantial amount of debt we expect to incur to finance the cash portion of the Guidant acquisition consideration, there can be no assurance that, if the
acquisition is consummated, we will choose to continue to invest in these technologies. A delay in the development or approval of these technologies or our decision to reduce funding of these projects
may adversely impact the contribution of these technologies to our future growth. 

        As
a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance from the FDA for new products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study
designs, patient populations and trial endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors or by third parties, or the
market's perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals from the FDA, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate and our
business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects. 

27




 


        We face intense competition and may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in the medical devices industry, which could have an adverse
effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

        The medical device market is highly competitive. We encounter significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold
from various medical device companies, some of which may have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Our primary competitors have historically included: Guidant (including its
subsidiary Advanced Cardiovascular Systems, Inc.), Johnson & Johnson (including its subsidiary, Cordis Corporation) and Medtronic, Inc. (including its subsidiary, Medtronic
AVE, Inc.). If the acquisition is consummated, Abbott will become a primary competitor of ours in the interventional cardiology market and St. Jude Medical, Inc. will become a competitor
of ours in the CRM market, in addition to the neuromodulation market. In addition, we face competition from a wide range of companies that sell a single or a limited number of competitive products or
which participate only in a specific market segment, as well as from non-medical device companies, including pharmaceutical companies, which may offer non-surgical alternative therapies for disease
states intended to be treated using our products. 

        Additionally,
the medical device market is characterized by extensive research and development, and rapid technological change. Developments by other companies of new or improved
products, processes or technologies, in particular in the drug-eluting stent market, may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive and may negatively impact our revenues. We
are required to devote continued efforts and financial resources to develop or acquire scientifically advanced technologies and products, apply our technologies cost-effectively across product lines
and markets, attract and retain skilled development personnel, obtain patent and other protection for our technologies and products, obtain required regulatory and reimbursement approvals and
successfully manufacture and market our products. If we fail to develop new products or enhance existing products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations. 

        Because we derive a significant amount of our revenues from international operations and a significant percentage of our future growth is expected to come from
international operations, changes in international economic or regulatory conditions could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

        Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 39% of our net sales in 2005. Additionally, a significant percentage of our future growth is expected to come
from international operations. As a result, our profitability from our international operations may be limited by risks and uncertainties related to economic conditions in these regions, foreign
currency fluctuations, regulatory and reimbursement approvals, competitive offerings, infrastructure development, rights to intellectual property and our ability to implement our overall business
strategy. Further, international markets are also being affected by economic pressure to contain reimbursement levels and healthcare costs. The trend in countries around the world, including Japan,
toward more stringent regulatory requirements for product clearance, changing reimbursement models and more rigorous inspection and enforcement activities has generally caused or may cause medical
device manufacturers to experience more uncertainty, delay, risk and expense. In addition, we are required to renew regulatory approvals in certain international jurisdictions, which may require
additional testing and documentation. If sufficient resources are not available to renew these approvals or these approvals are not timely renewed, our ability to market our full line of existing
products within these jurisdictions may be limited. Any significant changes in the competitive, political, legal, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environment where we conduct international
operations may have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

28




 


        Healthcare cost containment pressures and legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors or
preferences for alternate therapies could decrease the demand for our products, the prices which customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures performed using our
devices, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

        Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians, which typically bill various third-party payors, including governmental programs (e.g.,
Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for their
products and services from private and governmental third-party payors is critical to the success of medical technology companies. The availability of reimbursement affects which products customers
purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies from country to country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new products and services. After we develop a promising new
product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the
U.S. or international reimbursement systems in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or denies
coverage for those procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

        Major
third-party payors for hospital services in the U.S. and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs. The introduction of cost containment incentives, combined with closer
scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in increased discounts and contractual adjustments to hospital charges for services performed and has
shifted services between inpatient and outpatient settings. Initiatives to limit the increase of healthcare costs, including price regulation, are also underway in several countries in which we do
business. Hospitals or physicians may respond to these cost-containment pressures by substituting lower cost products or other therapies for our products. If the Guidant acquisition is consummated, in
light of the Guidant product recalls, third-party payors may seek claims and further recourse against us for the recalled defibrillator and pacemaker systems for which Guidant had previously received
reimbursement. 

        Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market
segments, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

        The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party
payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, including hospitals. This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain
suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our
hospital customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting
in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce competition, exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely
impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

29




 


Risks Related to the Proposed Acquisition and Guidant  

        If the acquisition is consummated, the separation of Guidant's vascular and endovascular businesses from Guidant's other businesses and the integration of Boston
Scientific and Guidant following the acquisition may present significant challenges.  

        Because Abbott will be acquiring Guidant's vascular and endovascular businesses prior to the consummation of the acquisition, these businesses will need to be
separated from Guidant's other businesses before the closing of the acquisition. In addition, Boston Scientific and Guidant may face significant challenges in combining operations and product lines in
a timely and efficient manner and retaining key Guidant personnel. This integration will be complex and time-consuming, and the separation of the Guidant businesses required by the Abbott transaction
will add complexity to the transition process and require the receipt or provision of transitional services. The failure to successfully integrate Guidant's business and ours and to manage the
challenges presented by the transition process successfully, including the retention of key Guidant personnel, may prevent us from achieving the anticipated potential benefits of the acquisition. 

        We will incur significant indebtedness in order to finance the acquisition, which will limit our operating flexibility.  

        In order to finance the cash portion of the acquisition consideration, we expect to incur incremental borrowings of approximately $8 billion. Our
significant indebtedness may: 



•require
us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital
expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments in new technologies and for general corporate purposes;
•increase
our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates; and
•limit
our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to our business and industry. 


        In
addition, the terms of the financing obligations to be incurred by us in order to finance the cash portion of the acquisition consideration will contain restrictions substantially
similar to the restrictions
contained in our current financing obligations, including limitations on our ability to, among other things: 



•increase
consolidated leverage (total debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA));
•incur
certain additional interest expense charges (EBITDA to interest expense);
•incur
additional indebtedness pursuant to receivables transactions;
•create
or incur liens;
•sell
all or substantially all of our assets; and
•consolidate
or merge with another entity. 


        These
restrictions will be applicable to Boston Scientific after the acquisition. In addition, to the extent that our credit ratings are below pre-acquisition levels, borrowing costs may
increase, and to the extent that our credit ratings are below investment grade, the restrictions in these financing obligations could be more stringent and could include additional covenants,
conditions to borrowing, subsidiary guarantees and stock pledges. A failure to comply with these restrictions could result in a default under these financing obligations or could require us to obtain
waivers from our lenders for failure to comply 

30




 


with
these restrictions. The occurrence of a default that remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations. 

        We expect that, if the acquisition is consummated, our credit ratings will be downgraded from our current credit ratings and it is possible that our credit
ratings could fall below investment grade.  

        We currently have investment grade credit ratings. During February 2006, our credit rating was downgraded. The rating agencies have indicated that our
credit rating will be further downgraded if the acquisition of Guidant is consummated. Although we expect our credit ratings to remain at investment grade following the acquisition of Guidant, it is
possible that the credit rating agencies could downgrade our credit ratings to below investment grade. The credit ratings assigned to our indebtedness affect both our ability to obtain new financing
and the cost of financing and credit. If our credit ratings were to be further downgraded, our borrowing costs may increase, we may become subject to more stringent covenants and our access to
unsecured debt markets could be limited. In addition, we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Further, in December 2005, we agreed to supplement
the terms of our senior notes issued in November 2005 to provide for a potential interest rate adjustment accruing from November 17, 2005 on each series of these senior notes in the
event that our credit ratings are downgraded as a result of our closing of the proposed acquisition of Guidant. 


        If the acquisition is consummated, our stockholders' ownership percentage of Boston Scientific will be diluted and the acquisition will result in dilution to our
earnings per share.  

        In connection with the proposed acquisition, we will issue to Guidant shareholders and Abbott shares of our common stock. As a result of the issuance of these
shares of our common stock, our stockholders will own a smaller percentage of our company after the acquisition if the acquisition is consummated. The proposed acquisition will also result in
significant dilution to our 2006 earnings per share and may result in dilution to our earnings per share in future years. 


        Since June of 2005, Guidant has issued a number of product advisories to physicians concerning its defibrillator and pacemaker systems due to reported adverse
events and malfunctions that have adversely impacted its sales and market share and, if the acquisition is consummated, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.  

        Since June of 2005, Guidant has issued a number of product advisories to physicians concerning its defibrillator and pacemaker systems due to reported adverse
events and malfunctions. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, Guidant reported that sales during the second half of 2005 decreased 14% compared to the same period in 2004, primarily due
to the impact of various implantable defibrillator and pacemaker system field actions that occurred in 2005, including certain voluntary product recalls and physician notifications. These product
recalls included Guidant's decision announced on June 24, 2005 to temporarily stop selling Guidant's leading defibrillator systems, which were returned to the market beginning on
August 2, 2005. The impact of the product recalls resulted in Guidant having a lower market share for implantable defibrillator and pacemaker systems for the second half of 2005 compared to the
same period in the prior year. If the acquisition is consummated, there can be no assurance that we will be able to regain that market share or sales, if at all. If we are able to regain Guidant's
prior market share and sales, there can be no assurance as to when our market share and sales will return to pre-product recall levels, due to, among other things, customer perceptions of the product
recalls, market acceptance of recently launched products, and regulatory and competitive developments. If we are unable to regain market share and sales for implantable defibrillator and pacemaker
systems or do not regain market share and sales on a timely basis, these failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of 

31




 


operations.
There can be no assurance that, if the Guidant acquisition is consummated, we will not have product recalls concerning defibrillator and pacemaker systems (or our own products) in the
future or that any product recalls would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


        The FDA, the Department of Justice, the SEC and various state agencies are conducting, and other governmental entities may commence, investigations of Guidant in
connection with Guidant's product recalls which could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of Guidant and Boston Scientific if the Guidant acquisition
is consummated.  

        The FDA, the Department of Justice, the SEC and various state agencies are conducting, and other governmental entities may commence, investigations of Guidant in
connection with Guidant's product recalls. While Guidant is cooperating with officials in connection with these investigations, Guidant cannot predict when these investigations will be resolved, the
outcome of these investigations or their impact on Guidant or, if the acquisition is consummated, Boston Scientific. An adverse outcome in any of these investigations could include the commencement of
civil and/or criminal proceedings involving substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including the exclusion of Guidant and Boston Scientific from government
reimbursement programs. Additionally, if these investigations continue over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of management from the day-to-
day operations of Guidant's and our business, impose significant administrative burdens on Guidant and us and result in additional compliance or other costs. These potential consequences, as well as
any material adverse outcome from any of these investigations, could have an adverse effect on Guidant's and our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

<A
NAME="ce1081_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
 
ITEM 1B