ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report and the exhibits hereto, the
following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business,
financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these
risks. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the
qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements set forth at the end of Item 1 of this
Annual Report. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may
also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.



We derive a significant portion of our net sales from the sale of drug-eluting coronary stent
systems and CRM products. A decline in market size, average selling prices and procedural volumes;
increased competition; market perceptions of results of clinical trials conducted by us or our
competitors; interruption in supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems; changes in our sales
personnel; or product launch delays may materially adversely affect our results of operations and
financial position, including our goodwill balances.



Net sales from drug-eluting coronary stent systems represented approximately 23 percent of our
consolidated net sales during 2009. Recent competitive launches and clinical publications have
negatively



21




Table of Contents






impacted our share of the worldwide drug-eluting stent market, and have resulted in competitive
pricing pressure, especially in the U.S. market. We estimate that the average selling price of our
drug-eluting stent systems in the U.S. decreased approximately eight percent in 2009, as compared
to the prior year. Further, recently published data from a single-center, non-double blinded,
underpowered study sponsored by one of our competitors have negatively affected, and may continue
to have a negative impact on, physician and patient confidence in our technology and net sales of
our TAXUS® paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent systems. In addition, perceptions of excessive use of
drug-eluting stent systems based on evidence from a third-party clinical trial comparing
drug-eluting stent systems to pharmaceuticals may have an adverse impact on our net sales of
drug-eluting stent systems. We expect to launch our next-generation TAXUS® ElementÔ stent
system in our EMEA region and certain Inter-Continental countries during the first half of 2010, in
the U.S. mid-2011 and Japan in late 2011 or early 2012. A delay in the timing of the launch of
next-generation products may result in a further decline in our market share and have an adverse
impact on our results of operations.



We share, with Abbott Laboratories, rights to everolimus-eluting stent technology, and are reliant
on Abbott for our supply of PROMUS® everolimus-eluting stent systems in the U.S. and Japan. Any
production or capacity issues that affect Abbott’s manufacturing capabilities or our process for
forecasting, ordering and receiving shipments may impact our ability to increase or decrease the
level of supply to us in a timely manner; therefore, our supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems
supplied to us by Abbott may not align with customer demand. We expect to launch our internally
developed and manufactured next-generation everolimus-eluting stent system, the PROMUS® Element™
platinum chromium coronary stent system, in the U.S. and Japan in mid-2012. Our supply agreement
for the PROMUS® stent system from Abbott extends through the end of the second quarter of 2012 in
the U.S. and Japan. Our inability to obtain regulatory approval and timely launch our PROMUS®
Element stent system in these regions may materially adversely affect our results of operations or
financial condition.



Worldwide CRM market growth rates in recent years, including the U.S. ICD market, have been below
those experienced in prior years, resulting primarily from industry field actions and from a lack
of new indications for use. There can be no assurance that the size of the CRM market will
increase above existing levels or that we will be able to increase CRM market share or increase net
sales in a timely manner, if at all. Our U.S. ICD sales represented approximately 50 percent of our
worldwide CRM net sales in 2009, and any changes in this market could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition. Additionally, average selling prices have declined in the past
year due, in part, to competitive pressures and general economic conditions. Further, recent
disciplinary actions we have taken against certain of our U.S. CRM sales personnel, as well as attrition
beyond those subject to disciplinary actions, could result in lost U.S. CRM net sales. Net sales
from our CRM group represented approximately 31 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2009.
Therefore, further decreases in net sales and average selling prices of our CRM products could have
a significant impact on our results of operations. In addition, our inability to increase our
worldwide CRM net sales could result in future goodwill and other intangible asset impairment
charges. We expect to launch our next-generation line of defibrillators in 2010 and a new
wireless pacemaker in the U.S. and Europe in early 2011. Variability in the timing of the launch
of next-generation products may result in excess or expired inventory positions and future
inventory charges, which may adversely impact our results from operations.



The profit margin of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott, including any
improvements or iterations approved for sale during the term of the applicable supply arrangements
and of the type that could be approved by a supplement to an approved FDA pre-market approval, is
significantly lower than that of our TAXUS® stent systems, and an increase in sales of
everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott relative to
TAXUS® stent system net sales may continue to
adversely impact our gross profit and operating profit margins. The price we pay Abbott for our
supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott is further impacted by our
arrangements with Abbott and is subject to retroactive adjustment, which may also
negatively impact our profit margins.



22




Table of Contents






Under the terms of our supply arrangement with Abbott, the gross profit and operating profit margin
of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott, including any improvements or
iterations approved for sale during the term of the applicable supply arrangements and of the type
that could be approved by a supplement to an approved FDA pre-market
approval, are significantly
lower than that of our TAXUS® stent system. Therefore, if sales of everolimus-eluting stent
systems supplied to us by Abbott continue to increase in relation to our total drug-eluting stent
system sales, our profit margins will continue to decrease. Further, the price we pay for our
supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott is determined by our contracts
with them. Our cost is based, in part, on previously fixed estimates of Abbott’s manufacturing
costs for everolimus-eluting stent systems and third-party reports of our average selling price of
these stent systems. Amounts paid pursuant to this pricing arrangement are subject to a retroactive
adjustment approximately every two years based on Abbott’s actual costs to manufacture these stent
systems for us and our average selling price of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by
Abbott. Pursuant to these adjustments, we may make a payment to Abbott based on the differences
between their actual manufacturing costs and the contractually stipulated manufacturing costs and
differences between our actual average selling price and third-party reports of our average selling
price, in each case, with respect to our purchases of everolimus-eluting stent systems from Abbott.
As a result, our profit margins in the years in which we record payments related to purchases of
everolimus-eluting stent systems from Abbott may decrease.



We incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with our acquisition of Guidant and if we are
unable to manage our debt levels, through refinancing or otherwise, it could have an adverse effect
on our financial condition or results of operations.



We had total debt of $5.918 billion as of December 31, 2009, attributable in large part to our 2006
acquisition of Guidant Corporation, of which $1.750 billion, as
well as our revolving credit facility,  will mature in 2011. We expect to
refinance the majority of our 2011 debt maturities and revolving credit facility by
mid-2010. Although Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services recently upgraded our credit rating to BBB-,
an investment grade rating, our current credit rating from Fitch Ratings is BB+, and from Moody’s
Investor Service is Ba1, both of which are below investment grade. Our inability to regain
investment grade credit ratings could impact our ability to obtain financing on terms reasonably
acceptable to us, and increase the cost of borrowing funds in the future. If we are unable to
refinance this indebtedness on satisfactory terms, we may be required to dedicate a more
substantial portion of our operating cash flows to our indebtedness, which may limit our
flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or investing in our growth.
In addition, our revolving credit facility agreement contains financial covenants that require us
to maintain specified financial ratios. If we are unable to satisfy these covenants, we may be
required to obtain waivers from our lenders and no assurance can be made that our lenders would
grant such waivers on favorable terms or at all, and we could be required to repay any borrowings
under this facility on demand. Our revolving credit facility matures in 2011.



We may record future goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units, which
could materially adversely impact our results of
operations.

We test our April 1 goodwill balances during the second quarter of each year for impairment, or more
frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist.  We
assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level and, in evaluating the potential for impairment
of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding the amount and timing of future expected cash flows,
terminal value growth rates and appropriate discount rates. While we do not believe there are indicators
of impairment as of December 31, 2009 to necessitate the performance of an interim impairment test, we
have considered current and future expected economic conditions as of year end and, as a result, we have
identified two reporting units with a material amount of goodwill that are at higher risk of potential
failure of the first step of the impairment test in future reporting
periods. 

Although we use consistent methodologies in developing the assumptions and estimates underlying the
fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary
from actual results.  We have allocated a significant portion of the goodwill associated with our 2006
acquisition of Guidant Corporation to our U.S. CRM and EMEA reporting units. Changes in the fair value
of these reporting units could make it reasonably likely that an impairment may occur over the next
twelve months in these reporting units. Future goodwill impairment charges could materially adversely
impact our results of operations.



We may not realize the expected benefits from our restructuring and Plant Network Optimization
initiatives; our long-term expense reduction programs may result in an increase in short-term
expense; and our efforts may lead to additional unintended consequences.



In February 2010, we announced our 2010 Restructuring plan designed to strengthen and position us
for long-term success. Key activities under the plan include the integration of our Cardiovascular
and CRM businesses, as well as the restructuring of certain other businesses and corporate
functions; the centralization of our research and development organization; the realignment of our
international structure; and the reprioritization and diversification of our product portfolio. In
connection with this plan and our strategy to reduce risk, increase operational leverage and
accelerate profitable growth, we may explore opportunities to divest one or more select businesses.
However, our ability to complete business divestitures may be limited by the inability to locate a
buyer or to agree to terms that are favorable to us. Additionally, in early 2009, we announced our
Plant Network Optimization program,



23




Table of Contents






aimed at simplifying our plant network, reducing our manufacturing costs and improving gross
margins. Cost reduction initiatives under both plans include cost improvement measures, resource
reallocations, head count reductions, the sale of certain non-strategic assets and efforts to
streamline our business, among other actions. These measures could yield unintended consequences,
such as distraction of our management and employees, business disruption, attrition beyond our
planned reduction in workforce and reduced employee productivity. We may be unable to attract or
retain key personnel. Attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce or a material decrease
in employee morale or productivity could negatively affect our business, sales, financial condition
and results of operations. In addition, head count reductions may subject us to the risk of
litigation, which could result in substantial cost. Moreover, our expense reduction programs will
result in charges and expenses that will impact our operating results. We cannot guarantee that
these measures, or other expense reduction measures we take in the future, will result in the
expected cost savings.



Healthcare policy changes, including pending proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may
have a material adverse effect on us.



Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to potential
fundamental changes that could substantially affect our results of operations. Government and
private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation,
competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies,
technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do
business, including the U.S. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on
the delivery of more cost-effective treatments. We are undertaking certain restructuring
initiatives in order to address this trend; however, the execution of these initiatives may not
achieve the desired effect. Further, uncertainty remains regarding proposed significant reforms to
the U.S. healthcare system, including the potential excise tax on medical device companies.
We cannot predict to what extent the increased focus on healthcare systems and costs in the U.S.
and abroad may negatively impact our average selling prices, our net sales and profit margins,
procedural volumes and reimbursement rates from third party payors.



Our products, including those of our cardiovascular businesses, are continually subject to clinical
trials conducted by us, our competitors or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or
perceived as unfavorable by the market, and could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition or results of operations.



As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products, we conduct
and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations
and trial endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical
trials conducted by us, by our competitors or by third parties, or the market’s perception of this
clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and
share of, the markets in which we participate and our business, financial condition, results of
operations or future prospects.



Our future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, which requires significant
research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals, all of which are very expensive
and time-consuming and may not result in a commercially viable product.



In order to develop new products and improve current product offerings, we focus our research and
development programs largely on the development of next-generation and novel technology offerings
across multiple programs and divisions, particularly in our core franchises, including our
drug-eluting stent and CRM programs. We expect to launch
our internally-manufactured next-generation everolimus-eluting
stent system, the PROMUS® Element™ platinum chromium coronary stent in the U.S. and Japan in
mid-2012, subject to regulatory approval. In addition, we expect to continue to invest in our CRM
technologies, including our LATITUDE® Patient Management System and our next-generation products
and technologies. If we are unable to develop and launch these and other products as anticipated,
our ability to maintain or expand



24




Table of Contents






our market position in the drug-eluting stent and CRM markets may be materially adversely impacted.
Further, we are investigating opportunities to further expand our presence in, and diversify into,
areas including atrial fibrillation, underserved defibrillator populations, acute ischemic stroke,
coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, structural heart disease, vascular closure,
hypertension, women’s health, endoluminal surgery, diabetes/obesity, endoscopic pulmonary
intervention and deep brain stimulation. Expanding our focus beyond our current businesses is
expensive and time-consuming. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to access
these technologies on terms favorable to us, or that these technologies will achieve commercial
feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance. A delay in the development or
approval of these technologies or our decision to reduce our investments may adversely impact the
contribution of these technologies to our future growth.



We may not be successful in our strategic acquisitions of, investments in, or alliances with, other
companies and businesses, which have been a significant source of historical growth for us, and
will be key to our diversification into new markets and technologies.



Our strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances are intended to further expand our ability to
offer customers effective, high quality medical devices that satisfy their interventional needs. If
we are unsuccessful in our acquisitions, investments and alliances, we may be unable to continue to
grow our business significantly or may record asset impairment charges in the future. These
acquisitions, investments and alliances have been a significant source of our growth. The success
of any acquisition, investment or alliance that we may undertake in
the future will depend on a number of
factors, including:







     
    •
     
    our ability to identify suitable opportunities for acquisition, investment or alliance, if at all;



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to finance any future acquisition, investment or alliance
on terms acceptable to us, if at all;



     

     
    •
     
    whether we are able to establish an acquisition, investment or
alliance on terms that are satisfactory to us, if at all;



     

     
    •
     
    the strength of the other companies’ underlying technology and ability to execute;



     

     
    •
     
    regulatory approvals and reimbursement levels of the acquired products and related procedures;



     

     
    •
     
    intellectual property and litigation related to these technologies; and



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to successfully integrate the acquired company or business
with our existing business, including the ability to adequately fund
acquired in-process research and development projects.





Any potential future acquisitions we consummate may be dilutive to our earnings and may require
additional debt or equity financing, depending on their size or nature.



The medical device industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental
authorities and is the subject of numerous investigations, often involving marketing and other
business practices. These investigations could result in the commencement of civil and criminal
proceedings; substantial fines, penalties and administrative remedies; divert the attention of our
management; impose administrative costs and have an adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and liquidity; and may lead to greater governmental regulation in the future.



25




Table of Contents






The medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation
by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These
authorities have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. We have received subpoenas and
other requests for information from Congress and other state and federal governmental agencies,
including, among others, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), the Office of Inspector General of
the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and the Department of Defense. These
investigations relate primarily to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory
compliance and product promotional practices. We are cooperating with these investigations and are
responding to these requests.



In addition, we recently entered into a civil settlement with the DOJ regarding the Department’s
investigation relating to certain post-market surveys conducted by Guidant Corporation before we
acquired Guidant in 2006. As part of the settlement, we entered into a Corporate Integrity
Agreement (CIA) with the Office of Inspector General for HHS. The CIA requires enhancements to
certain compliance procedures related to financial arrangements with
health care providers.
The obligations imposed upon us by the CIA and cooperation with ongoing investigations will involve
human resources costs and diversion of management and employee focus. Cooperation typically also
involves document production costs. We cannot predict when the investigations will be resolved, the
outcome of these investigations or their impact on us. An adverse outcome in one or more of these
investigations could include the commencement of civil and criminal
proceedings; substantial fines,
penalties and administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs
and entry into additional CIAs or an amendment to the existing CIA. In addition, resolution of any
of these matters could involve the imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations,
including entering into additional CIAs. We may incur greater future
costs to fulfill the obligations imposed upon us by the CIA. Furthermore, the CIA, and if any of
the ongoing investigations continue over a long period of time, could further divert the attention
of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant additional
administrative burdens on us. These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from
these investigations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations and liquidity.



In addition, certain states, including Massachusetts, where we are headquartered, have passed or
are considering legislation restricting our interactions with health care providers and requiring
disclosure of payments to them, compliance with which will require significant human resource and
financial costs as well as complex information technology systems. The Federal government has
introduced similar legislation, which may or may not preempt state laws. We are devoting
substantial time and financial resources in order to develop and implement enhanced structure,
policies, systems and processes in order to comply with enhanced legal and regulatory requirements.
Recent Supreme Court case law has clarified that the FDA’s authority over medical devices preempts
state tort laws, but legislation has been introduced at the Federal level to allow state
intervention, which could lead to increased and inconsistent regulation at the state level. We
anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our industry closely and that we will be
subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future.



Should we be unable to resolve our FDA corporate warning letter, our business, financial condition
and results of operations, our relationship with the FDA, and physician perception of our products
could be materially adversely affected.



In January 2006, legacy Boston Scientific received a corporate warning letter from the FDA
notifying us of serious regulatory problems at three of our facilities and advising us that our
corrective action plan relating to three site-specific warning letters issued to us in 2005 was
inadequate. During 2008, the FDA reinspected a number of our facilities and, in October 2008,
informed us that our quality system is now in substantial compliance with its Quality System
Regulations. The FDA has approved all of our requests for final approval of Class III product
submissions previously on hold due to the corporate warning letter, and is processing all requests
for Certificates to Foreign Governments. In November 2009



26




Table of Contents






and January 2010, the FDA reinspected two official action-indicated sites to follow up on
observations from the 2008 FDA inspections. Both of these FDA inspections confirmed that all issues
at the sites have been resolved and all restrictions related to the corporate warning letter have
been removed. The corporate warning letter remains in place pending FDA internal administrative
proceedings.



We may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes,
which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



As a medical device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to
periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with its Quality System Regulation
requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations,
including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the Federal Medical
Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is
evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious
injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is
monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are
required to maintain certain International Standards Organization
(ISO) certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo
periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we, or our
manufacturers, fail to adhere to quality system regulations or ISO requirements, this could delay
production of our products and lead to fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances,
recalls, enforcement actions, including injunctive relief or consent decrees, or other
consequences, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or
results of operations.



We are subject to extensive and dynamic medical device regulation, which may impede or hinder the
approval or sale of our products and, in some cases, may ultimately result in an inability to
obtain approval of certain products or may result in the recall or seizure of previously approved
products.



Our products, development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and
rigorous regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), by
comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies.
Under the FDC Act, medical devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they can be
commercially marketed in the U.S. The FDA is reviewing its clearance process in an effort to make
it more rigorous, which may require additional clinical data, time and effort for product
clearance. In addition, most major markets for medical devices outside the U.S. require clearance,
approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The
process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA for new products, or with respect
to enhancements or modifications to existing products, could:







     
    •
     
    Take a significant period of time;



     

     
    •
     
    Require the expenditure of substantial resources;



     

     
    •
     
    Involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance;



     

     
    •
     
    Require changes to products; and



     

     
    •
     
    Result in limitations on the indicated uses of products.





Countries around the world have adopted more stringent regulatory requirements that have added or
are expected to add to the delays and uncertainties associated with new product releases, as well
as the clinical and regulatory costs of supporting those releases. Even after products have
received marketing approval or clearance, product approvals and clearances by the FDA can be
withdrawn due to failure to



27




Table of Contents






comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial
approval. There can be no assurance that we will receive the required clearances for new products
or modifications to existing products on a timely basis or that any approval will not be
subsequently withdrawn or conditioned upon extensive post-market study requirements.



In addition, regulations regarding the development, manufacture and sale of medical devices are
subject to future change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, those changes might have on our
business. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations. Later discovery of previously unknown
problems with a product or manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory
clearances, seizures or recalls of products, physician advisories or other field actions, operating
restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. We may also initiate field actions as a result of a
failure to strictly comply with our internal quality policies. The failure to receive product
approval clearance on a timely basis, suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of
products, physician advisories or other field actions, or the withdrawal of product approval by the
FDA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.



Current economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations.



The global financial crisis has caused extreme disruption in the financial markets, including
severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that there will
not be further deterioration in the global economy, and these conditions may adversely affect our
ability to borrow money in the credit markets. Our customers may experience financial difficulties
or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability or
decision to purchase our products, particularly capital equipment, or to pay for our products they
do purchase on a timely basis, if at all. The strength and timing of any economic recovery remains
uncertain, and we cannot predict to what extent the global economic slowdown may negatively impact
our average selling prices, our net sales and profit margins, procedural volumes and reimbursement
rates from third party payors. In addition, the current economic conditions may adversely affect
our suppliers leading them to experience financial difficulties or to be unable to borrow money to
fund their operations, which could cause disruptions in our ability to produce our products.



We may not effectively be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



The medical device market in which we primarily participate is largely technology driven. Physician
customers, particularly in interventional cardiology, have historically moved quickly to new
products and new technologies. As a result, intellectual property rights, particularly patents and
trade secrets, play a significant role in product development and differentiation. However,
intellectual property litigation is inherently complex and unpredictable. Furthermore, appellate
courts can overturn lower court patent decisions.



In addition, competing parties frequently file multiple suits to leverage patent portfolios across
product lines, technologies and geographies and to balance risk and exposure between the parties.
In some cases, several competitors are parties in the same proceeding, or in a series of related
proceedings, or litigate multiple features of a single class of devices. These forces frequently
drive settlement not only of individual cases, but also of a series of pending and potentially
related and unrelated cases. In addition, although monetary and injunctive relief is typically
sought, remedies and restitution are generally not determined until the conclusion of the trial
court proceedings and can be modified on appeal. Accordingly, the outcomes of individual cases are
difficult to time, predict or quantify and are often dependent upon the outcomes of other cases in
other geographies.



28




Table of Contents






Several third parties have asserted that our current and former stent systems infringe patents
owned or licensed by them. We have similarly asserted that stent systems or other products sold by
our competitors infringe patents owned or licensed by us. Adverse outcomes in one or more of the
proceedings against us could limit our ability to sell certain stent products in certain
jurisdictions, or reduce our operating margin on the sale of these products and could have a
material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.



Patents and other proprietary rights are and will continue to be essential to our business, and our
ability to compete effectively with other companies will be dependent upon the proprietary nature
of our technologies. We rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations,
strategic alliances and licensing opportunities to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive
position. We pursue a policy of generally obtaining patent protection in both the U.S. and abroad
for patentable subject matter in our proprietary devices and attempt to review third-party patents
and patent applications to the extent publicly available in order to develop an effective patent
strategy, avoid infringement of third-party patents, identify licensing opportunities and monitor
the patent claims of others. We currently own numerous U.S. and foreign patents and have numerous
patent applications pending. We also are party to various license agreements pursuant to which
patent rights have been obtained or granted in consideration for cash, cross-licensing rights or
royalty payments. No assurance can be made that any pending or future patent applications will
result in the issuance of patents, that any current or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us
will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, or that our patents will not be found
invalid. In addition, we may have to take legal action in the future to protect our patents, trade
secrets or know-how or to assert them against claimed infringement by others. Any legal action of
that type could be costly and time consuming and no assurances can be made that any lawsuit will be
successful. We are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent
infringement and other intellectual property-related actions.



The invalidation of key patents or proprietary rights that we own, or an unsuccessful outcome in
lawsuits to protect our intellectual property, could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial position or results of operations.



Pending and future intellectual property litigation could be costly and disruptive to us.



We operate in an industry that is susceptible to significant intellectual property litigation and,
in recent years, it has been common for companies in the medical device field to aggressively
challenge the patent rights of other companies in order to prevent the marketing of new devices. We
are currently the subject of various patent litigation proceedings and other proceedings described
in more detail under Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Intellectual property litigation is expensive,
complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. Adverse outcomes in one or more of
these matters could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell certain products and on
our operating margins, financial position, results of operation or liquidity. Pending or future
patent litigation may result in significant royalty or other payments or injunctions that can
prevent the sale of products and may significantly divert the attention of our technical and
management personnel. In the event that our right to market any of our products is successfully
challenged, we may be required to obtain a license on terms which may not be favorable to us, if at
all. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, our
business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.



Pending and future product liability claims and other litigation, including private securities
litigation, shareholder derivative suits and contract litigation, may adversely affect our
business, reputation and ability to attract and retain customers.



The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices of the types that we produce entail
an inherent risk of product liability claims. Many of the medical devices that we manufacture and
sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. A
number of factors




29






Table of Contents



could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with respect to these or
other products that we manufacture or sell, including component failures, manufacturing flaws,
design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information.
These factors could result in product liability claims, a recall of one or more of our products or
a safety alert relating to one or more of our products. Product liability claims may be brought by
individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class.



The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or quantify.
Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts,
including not only actual damages, but also punitive damages. The magnitude of the potential losses
relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, the
cost to defend against any future litigation may be significant. Further, we are substantially
self-insured with respect to product liability and intellectual
property infringement claims. We maintain insurance policies providing
limited coverage against securities claims. The absence of significant third-party insurance
coverage increases our potential exposure to unanticipated claims and adverse decisions. Product
liability claims, product recalls, securities litigation and other litigation in the future,
regardless of the outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results
of operations or liquidity.



We face intense competition and may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes
in the medical devices industry, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.



The medical device market in which we primarily participate is highly competitive. We encounter
significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold
from various medical device companies, some of which may have greater financial and marketing
resources than we do. Our primary competitors include Johnson & Johnson (including its subsidiary,
Cordis Corporation); Medtronic, Inc.; Abbott Laboratories; and St. Jude Medical, Inc. In addition,
we face competition from a wide range of companies that sell a single or a limited number of
competitive products or which participate in only a specific market segment, as well as from
non-medical device companies, including pharmaceutical companies, which may offer alternative
therapies for disease states intended to be treated using our products.



Additionally, the medical device market is characterized by extensive research and development, and
rapid technological change. Developments by other companies of new or improved products, processes
or technologies may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive and may
negatively impact our net sales. We are required to devote continued efforts and financial
resources to develop or acquire scientifically advanced technologies and products, apply our
technologies cost-effectively across product lines and markets, attract and retain skilled
development personnel, obtain patent and other protection for our technologies and products, obtain
required regulatory and reimbursement approvals and successfully manufacture and market our
products consistent with our quality standards. If we fail to develop new products or enhance
existing products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations.



Because we derive a significant amount of our net sales from international operations and a
significant percentage of our future growth is expected to come from international operations,
changes in international economic or regulatory conditions could have a material impact on our
business, financial condition or results of operations.



Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 43 percent of our net sales in 2009.
Additionally, a significant percentage of our future growth is expected to come from international
operations. As a result, our sales growth and profitability from our international operations may
be limited by risks and uncertainties related to economic conditions in these regions, foreign
currency fluctuations, interest rate
fluctuations, regulatory and reimbursement approvals, competitive offerings, infrastructure

30




Table of Contents





development, rights to intellectual property and our ability to implement our overall business
strategy. Further, international markets are also being affected by economic pressure to contain
reimbursement levels and healthcare costs; and international markets may also be impacted
by foreign government efforts to understand healthcare practices and pricing in other countries,
which could result in increased pricing transparency across geographies and pressure to
harmonize reimbursement and ultimately reduce the selling prices of our products. The trend in
countries around the world, including Japan, toward more stringent regulatory requirements for
product clearance, changing reimbursement models and more rigorous inspection and enforcement
activities has generally caused or may cause medical device manufacturers to experience more
uncertainty, delay, risk and expense. In addition, most international jurisdictions have adopted
regulatory approval and periodic renewal requirements for medical devices, and we must comply with
these requirements in order to market our products in these jurisdictions. Any significant changes
in the competitive, political, legal, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environment where we
conduct international operations may have a material impact on our business, financial condition or
results of operations. In 2010, we intend to realign our international structure and will devote
resources to focus on increasing net sales in emerging markets. Sales practices in certain
international markets may be inconsistent with our desired business practices and U.S. legal
requirements, which may impact our ability to expand as planned.



Healthcare cost containment pressures and legislative or administrative reforms resulting in
restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors or preferences for alternate therapies
could decrease the demand for our products, the prices which customers are willing to pay for those
products and the number of procedures performed using our devices, which could have an adverse
effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



Our products are purchased principally by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers
around the world that typically bill various third-party payors, including governmental programs
(e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care programs, for the
healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate
reimbursement for their products and services from private and governmental third-party payors is
critical to the success of medical technology companies. The availability of reimbursement affects
which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies from
country to country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new products and services. After
we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement
approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Further legislative or
administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the U.S., Japan, or other international
countries in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical
devices or denies coverage for those procedures, including price regulation, competitive pricing,
coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and
managed-care arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.



Major third-party payors for hospital services in the U.S. and abroad continue to work to contain
healthcare costs. The introduction of cost containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of
healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in increased
discounts and contractual adjustments to hospital charges for services performed and has shifted
services between inpatient and outpatient settings. Initiatives to limit the increase of healthcare
costs, including price regulation, are also underway in several countries in which we do business.
Hospitals or physicians may respond to these cost-containment pressures by substituting lower cost
products or other therapies for our products. In connection with Guidant’s product recalls, certain
third-party payors have sought, and others may seek, recourse against us for amounts previously
reimbursed.



Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or the
exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market segments, which could have an
adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.




31




Table of Contents


The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and
reforms by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a
consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, including hospitals. This in turn has resulted in
greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as
group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to
consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. We expect that market demand,
government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and
societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further
business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce
competition, exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our
business, financial condition or results of operations.


Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact
on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.


We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and
various foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax
authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We
regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of
our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes
of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net
income or financial condition. Additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially
impact our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax
reform, such as the recent proposal by the Obama administration, if enacted, could have a
significant adverse impact on our future results of operations. In particular, Congressional
leadership has proposed an annual fee on medical device manufacturers. This proposal would require
medical device companies to pay additional taxes of up to
$2 billion each year, beginning in 2011. President Obama’s
recent proposal includes an excise tax in the same amount, starting in 2013, which would be administrated by the IRS.

 A fee or excise tax, if
passed, could result in a significant increase in the tax burden on the medical device industry,
which could have a material, negative impact on our results of operations and our cash flows.


We rely on external manufacturers to supply us with certain materials, components and products, as
well as external providers to sterilize our products. Any disruption in our sources of supply or
our ability to sterilize our products could adversely impact our production efforts and could
materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.


We vertically integrate operations where integration provides significant cost, supply or quality
benefits. However, we purchase many of the materials and components used in manufacturing our
products, some of which are custom made. Certain supplies are purchased from single-sources due to
quality considerations, expertise, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. We
may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for certain components, materials
or products in a timely manner largely due to the complex nature of our and many of our suppliers’
manufacturing processes. Production issues, including capacity constraint; quality issues affecting
us or our suppliers; an inability to develop and validate alternative sources if required; or a
significant increase in the price of materials or components could adversely affect our operations
and financial condition.


In addition, our products require sterilization prior to sale and we rely on a mix of internal
resources and third party vendors to perform this service. To the extent our sterilizers
are unable to process our products, whether due to raw material, capacity, regulatory or other
constraints, we may be unable to transition to other providers in a timely manner, which could have
an adverse impact on our operations.


32



Table of Contents






Our share price will fluctuate, and accordingly, the value of an investment in our common stock may
also fluctuate.



Stock markets in general, and our common stock in particular, have experienced significant price
and volume volatility over recent years. The market price and trading volume of our common stock
may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market
conditions, but also to variability in the prevailing sentiment regarding our operations or
business prospects, as well as, among other things, changing investment priorities of our
shareholders.



33




Table of Contents









ITEM 1B