Item 1A,
    “Risk Factors” and in other reports that we file with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any
    obligation to update or announce publicly any updates to or
    revision to any of the forward-looking statements in this
    Form 10-K
    to reflect any change in our expectations or any change in
    events, conditions, circumstances, or assumptions underlying the
    statements.


 


    This section and the discussions contained in Item 1A,
    “Risk Factors,” and in Item 7, subheading
    “Critical Accounting Policies” in this report, are
    intended to provide meaningful cautionary statements for
    purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the Act. This should
    not be construed as a complete list of all of the economic,
    competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that
    could adversely affect our expected consolidated financial
    position, results of operations or liquidity. Additional risks
    and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently
    believe are immaterial also may impair our business, operations,
    liquidity, financial condition and prospects.




    
    3



Table of Contents





 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    Item 1. 

    
    Business





 


    BorgWarner Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries (the
    “Company”) is a Delaware corporation that was
    incorporated in 1987. We are a leading, global supplier of
    highly engineered automotive systems and components, primarily
    for powertrain applications. Our products help improve vehicle
    performance, fuel efficiency, stability and air quality. These
    products are manufactured and sold worldwide, primarily to
    original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) of
    light-vehicles (passenger cars, sport-utility vehicles, vans and
    light-trucks). The Company’s products are also sold to
    other OEMs of commercial trucks, buses and agricultural and
    off-highway vehicles. We also manufacture and sell our products
    to certain Tier One vehicle systems suppliers and into the
    aftermarket for light and commercial vehicles. The Company
    operates manufacturing facilities serving customers in the
    Americas, Europe and Asia, and is an original equipment supplier
    to every major automotive OEM in the world.


 



    Financial
    Information About Reporting Segments


 


    Refer to Note 19, “Reporting Segments and Related
    Information” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this report for financial
    information about business segments.


 



    Narrative
    Description of Reporting Segments


 


    The Company reports its results under two reporting segments:
    Engine and Drivetrain. Net revenues by segment for the three
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 are as follows
    :


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


 


 


    Year Ended December 31,


 




    Net Sales


 


 


 


    2010


 


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 




 


 


 


 


    (Millions of dollars)


 



 






    Engine



 


    $


    4,060.8


 


 


    $


    2,883.2


 


 


    $


    3,861.5


 





    Drivetrain



 


 


    1,611.4


 


 


 


    1,093.5


 


 


 


    1,426.4


 





    Inter-segment eliminations



 


 


    (19.4


    )


 


 


    (14.9


    )


 


 


    (24.0


    )




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Net sales



 


    $


    5,652.8


 


 


    $


    3,961.8


 


 


    $


    5,263.9


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    The sales information presented above excludes the sales by the
    Company’s unconsolidated joint ventures (See “Joint
    Ventures” section). Such unconsolidated sales totaled
    approximately $779 million in 2010, $599 million in
    2009 and $792 million in 2008.


 



    Engine


 


    The Engine Group develops and manufactures products to manage
    engines for fuel efficiency, reduced emissions, and enhanced
    performance. Concern about fuel prices and availability, and the
    need to lower
    CO2
    emissions are driving demand for the Company’s products in
    smaller, more efficient gasoline and diesel engines and
    alternative powertrains. Engine Group products currently fall
    into the following major categories: turbochargers, timing
    devices and chain products, emissions systems, thermal systems,
    diesel cold start and gasoline ignition technology and cabin
    heaters.


 


    The Engine Group provides turbochargers for light-vehicle,
    commercial-vehicle and off-road applications for diesel and
    gasoline engine manufacturers in Europe, North America, South
    America and Asia. The Engine Group has greatly benefited from
    the growth in turbocharger demand in Europe. This growth is
    linked to increasing demand for diesel engines in light
    vehicles, which typically use turbochargers, and for
    turbocharged gasoline engines. Benefits of turbochargers in both
    light-vehicle and commercial-vehicle applications include
    increased power for a given engine size, improved fuel economy
    and significantly reduced emissions.


 


    Sales of turbochargers for light-vehicles represented
    approximately 26%, 27%, and 24% of the Company’s total
    revenues for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company
    currently supplies light-





    
    4



Table of Contents





    vehicle turbochargers to many OEMs including Volkswagen,
    Renault, PSA, Daimler, Hyundai, Fiat, BMW, Ford and General
    Motors. The Company also supplies commercial-vehicle
    turbochargers to Caterpillar, John Deere, Daimler,
    Navistar, Deutz and MAN.


 


    The Company’s newest technologies are its regulated
    two-stage turbocharging system known as
    R2S®,

    variable turbine geometry (“VTG”) turbochargers and
    turbochargers for gasoline direct injected engines. In 2008, the
    Company announced the start of production of its award winning
    R2S technology for Daimler’s four-cylinder diesel engine
    range. The Company also began shipping VTG turbochargers for
    VW’s common-rail engine range and announced the launch of a
    VTG turbocharger for use with low-pressure exhaust gas
    recirculation to reduce emissions on VW’s Jetta Clean
    Diesel TDI. In 2010, the Company began shipping turbochargers
    for Ford’s 3.5 liter V6 direct-injected gasoline EcoBoost
    engine for rear-wheel drive cars and trucks. Ford selected
    BorgWarner’s leading gasoline turbocharger technology for
    their new four-cylinder EcoBoost engine, which made its global
    debut in 2010.


 


    The Engine Group also designs and manufactures products to
    control emissions and improve fuel economy. These products
    include electric air pumps, turbo actuators that use integrated
    electronics to precisely control turbocharger speed and pressure
    ratio, and exhaust gas recirculation coolers, tubes and valves
    for gasoline and diesel applications.


 


    The Engine Group’s chain and chain systems products include
    timing chain and timing drive systems, variable cam timing
    (“VCT”) systems, crankshaft and camshaft sprockets,
    tensioners, guides and snubbers, HY-VO
    ®

    front-wheel drive (“FWD”) transmission chain and
    four-wheel drive (“4WD”) chain, and MORSE GEMINI
    ®

    chain systems for light-vehicle and commercial-vehicle
    applications.


 


    The Company’s timing chain systems are used on Ford’s
    family of engines, including the Duratec, Modular and in-line
    four-cylinder engines, as well as on a number of Chrysler’s
    engines, including its 3.7 liter and 4.7 liter engines, the
    four-cylinder World Engine and the new 3.6 liter Pentastar
    engine. In addition, the Company provides timing systems to a
    number of Asian OEMs, including Honda, Nissan, and Hyundai, and
    to several European OEMs. The Company believes that it is the
    world’s leading manufacturer of timing chain systems.


 


    The Engine Group’s newest technology is its VCT with mid
    position lock, which allows a greater range of camshaft
    positioning thereby enabling greater control over airflow and
    the opportunity to improve fuel economy, function and efficiency
    compared with conventional VCT systems. BorgWarner is currently
    working with five OEMs to implement the technology.


 


    The Company believes it is the world’s leading manufacturer
    of chain for FWD transmissions and 4WD transfer cases. HY-VO
    chain is used to transfer power from the engine to the
    drivetrain. The chain in a transfer case distributes power
    between a vehicle’s front and rear output shafts which, in
    turn, provide torque to the front and rear wheels. The
    Company’s MORSE GEMINI transmission chain system emits
    significantly less chain pitch frequency noise than conventional
    transmission chain systems.


 


    The Company also believes it is a leading global provider of
    engine thermal solutions for truck, agricultural and off-highway
    applications. The group designs, manufactures and markets
    viscous fan drives that control fans to sense and respond to
    multiple cooling requirements. The Engine Group also
    manufactures and markets polymer fans for engine cooling
    systems. The Company’s thermal products provide improved
    vehicle fuel economy and reduced engine emissions while
    minimizing parasitic horsepower loss. The Company has been
    awarded the “standard position” (the OEM-designated
    preferred supplier of component systems available to the
    end-customer) at the major global heavy truck producers.


 


    In 2005, the Company acquired approximately 69.4% of the
    outstanding shares of BERU Aktiengesellschaft
    (“BERU”), headquartered in Ludwigsburg, Germany.
    Through a series of transactions and legal actions, the Company
    became the only shareholder of BERU effective September 30,
    2009. That company’s corporate form and name was changed to
    BorgWarner BERU Systems GmbH (“BERU Systems”) in late
    2009.




    
    5



Table of Contents





    BERU System’s operating results are included within the
    Company’s Engine Group segment. BERU Systems is a leading
    global automotive supplier of diesel cold start technology (glow
    plugs and instant starting systems). In 2008, BERU launched its
    new Pressure Sensor Glow Plug with which the combustion process
    of a diesel engine is monitored and enhanced, allowing the
    lowest
    CO2
    and
    NOx
    emissions possible. It also designs and manufactures gasoline
    ignition technology (spark plugs and ignition coils); and
    electronic control units and sensor technology (tire pressure
    sensors, diesel cabin heaters and selected sensors).


 


    On June 2, 2009, the Company announced the purchase of
    advanced gasoline ignition technology and related intellectual
    property from Florida-based Etatech, Inc. The high-frequency
    ignition technology enables high-performing, lean burning
    engines to significantly improve fuel economy and reduce
    emissions compared with conventional combustion technologies.


 


    On April 10, 2010, the Company acquired 100% of Dytech ENSA
    S.L. (“Dytech”), headquartered in Vigo, Spain. Dytech
    is a leading producer of exhaust gas recirculation (EGR)
    coolers, EGR tubes, and integrated EGR modules including valves
    for automotive and commercial vehicle applications, both on- and
    off-road.


 


    In anticipation of market growth expected for its electric cabin
    heaters, the Company completed the acquisition of
    BERU-Eichenauer GmbH by acquiring the shares of its former joint
    venture partner, Eichenauer Heizelemente GmbH & Co.
    KG. The former 50/50 joint venture was formed in 2000 to develop
    and manufacture electric cabin heaters. The acquisition formally
    took effect on May 1, 2010.


 



    Drivetrain


 


    The Drivetrain Group leverages the Company’s expertise in
    clutching and control systems to enable efficient transmission
    of engine torque through the vehicle drivetrain and management
    of torque distribution to the driven wheels. The Company’s
    technology can improve fuel efficiency and help reduce emissions
    in all types of powertrains. The Drivetrain Group’s major
    products are transmission components and systems, and all-wheel
    drive (“AWD”) torque management systems.


 


    The Drivetrain Group designs and manufactures automatic
    transmission components and modules and is a supplier to
    virtually every major automatic transmission manufacturer in the
    world for both conventional automatic, new dual-clutch
    transmissions (“DCT”) and automated manual
    transmissions.


 


    Friction and mechanical products include dual clutch modules,
    friction clutch modules, friction plates, transmission bands,
    torque converter clutches, one-way clutches and torsional
    vibration dampers. Controls products feature electro-hydraulic
    solenoids for standard and high pressure hydraulic systems,
    transmission solenoid modules and dual clutch control modules.


 


    The Company’s 50%-owned joint venture in Japan, NSK-Warner
    Kabushiki Kaisha (“NSK-Warner”), is a leading producer
    of friction plates and one-way clutches in Japan. NSK-Warner is
    also the joint venture partner with a 40% interest in the
    Drivetrain Group’s Korean subsidiary, BorgWarner
    Transmission Systems Korea, Inc.


 


    The Company has led the globalization of today’s DCT
    technology for over ten years. Following the development of its
    DCT technology in the 1990s, the Company established its
    industry-leading position in Europe in 2003 with the production
    launch of its award-winning
    DualTronic®

    innovations with VW/Audi. In 2007, the Company launched its
    first dual-clutch technology application in a Japanese
    transmission with Nissan.


 


    The Company has announced DCT programs with customers that
    include VW, Audi, SAIC and Nissan, in addition to Getrag DCT
    programs with BMW, Ford and other global automakers. Also, the
    Company is working on several other DCT programs with OEMs
    around the world. BorgWarner DualTronic technology enables a
    conventional, manual gearbox to function as a fully automatic
    transmission by eliminating the interruption in power flow that
    occurs when a single clutch manual transmission shifts gears.
    The result is a smooth shifting automatic transmission with the
    fuel efficiency and great driving experience of a manual gearbox.




    
    6



Table of Contents





    On November 18, 2008, we entered into a joint venture
    agreement with China Automobile Development United Investment
    Company, a company owned by leading Chinese automakers, to
    produce various dual clutch transmission modules. The joint
    venture’s operations will be located in Dalian, China and
    production is scheduled to begin in 2011. The Company owns 66%
    of the joint venture.


 


    In conventional automatic transmissions, there has been a global
    market trend from four and five speeds to six, seven, and even
    eight speed transmissions. Transmissions with more speeds
    improve fuel economy and vehicle performance and offer growth
    opportunities.


 


    The Drivetrain Group’s torque management products include
    rear-wheel drive (“RWD”)/AWD transfer case systems,
    FWD/AWD electromagnetic coupling systems and advanced products.
    The Company’s focus is on electronically controlled
    (active) torque management devices and systems for their vehicle
    dynamics, fuel economy and stability benefits.


 


    Transfer cases are installed primarily on light-trucks,
    sport-utility vehicles (“SUV“s), rear-wheel drive
    based cross-over utility vehicles (“CUV“s) and
    passenger cars. A transfer case attaches to the transmission and
    distributes torque to the front and rear axles improving vehicle
    traction and stability in dynamic driving conditions.


 


    The Company is involved in the FWD/AWD market with
    electromagnetic couplings that use electronically controlled
    clutches to distribute power to the rear wheels instantly as
    traction is required. The
    NexTrac®

    AWD device is our latest product innovation that produces
    outstanding stability and traction while promoting better fuel
    economy. The NexTrac AWD device launched in 2008 on the Hyundai
    Santa Fe, Tucson and KIA Sportage.


 


    With the trend toward vehicle electrification gaining momentum,
    the Company is also applying its years of expertise to deliver
    robust and highly efficient single and multiple speed electric
    gear reduction solutions for hybrids and electric vehicles.
    Currently, we supply our
    eGearDrive(tm)

    single-speed gearbox to the Ford Transit Connect Electric. We
    are actively engaged with traditional and non-traditional OEMs
    on a number of other transmission programs for plug-in hybrid
    and electric vehicles.


 


    On January 31, 2011, the Company acquired the Traction
    Systems division of Haldex Group, a leading provider of
    innovative all-wheel drive (AWD) products for the global vehicle
    industry headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden. The purchase price
    was approximately $205 million (1.425 billion Swedish
    Krona). The operating results will be reported within the
    Company’s Drivetrain reporting segment from the date of
    acquisition.


 


    This acquisition is expected to accelerate BorgWarner’s
    growth in the global AWD market as it continues to shift toward
    front-wheel drive (FWD) based vehicles. The acquisition will add
    industry leading FWD/AWD technologies, with a strong European
    customer base, to BorgWarner’s existing portfolio of front
    and rear-wheel drive based products. This enables BorgWarner to
    provide global customers a broader range of all-wheel drive
    solutions to meet their vehicle needs.


 



    Joint
    Ventures


 


    As of December 31, 2010, the Company had 11 joint ventures
    in which it had a less-than-100% ownership interest. Results
    from the eight ventures in which the Company is the majority
    owner are consolidated as part of the Company’s results.
    Results from the three ventures in which the Company’s
    effective ownership interest is 50% or less, were reported by
    the Company using the equity method of accounting.




    
    7



Table of Contents





    Management of the unconsolidated joint ventures is shared with
    the Company’s respective joint venture partners. Certain
    information concerning the Company’s joint ventures is set
    forth below:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


 


 


 


 


    Percentage
    


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


    Owned by
    


 


    Location
    


 


 


 


    Fiscal 2010
    




 


 


 


 


    Year
    


 


    the
    


 


    of
    


 


 


 


    Sales (Millions
    




    Joint Venture


 


    Products


 


    Organized


 


    Company (a)


 


    Operation


 


    Joint Venture Partner


 


    of Dollars) (b)



 






    Unconsolidated:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    NSK-Warner K.K.



 


    Transmission components


 


 


    1964


 


 


 


    50


    %


 


    Japan/China


 


    NSK Ltd.


 


    $


    634.7


 





    Turbo Energy Limited(c)



 


    Turbochargers


 


 


    1987


 


 


 


    32.6


    %


 


    India


 


    Sundaram Finance Limited;


 


    $


    137.9


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Brakes India Limited


 


 


 


 





    BERU Diesel Start Systems Pvt. Ltd. 



 


    Glow Plugs


 


 


    1996


 


 


 


    49


    %


 


    India


 


    Jayant Dave


 


    $


    6.3


 





    Consolidated:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    BorgWarner Transmission Systems Korea, Inc. 



 


    Transmission components


 


 


    1987


 


 


 


    60


    %(d)


 


    Korea


 


    NSK-Warner K.K.


 


    $


    148.1


 





    Divgi-Warner Pvt. Ltd. 



 


    Transfer cases and
    automatic locking hubs


 


 


    1995


 


 


 


    60


    %


 


    India


 


    Divgi Metalwares, Ltd.


 


    $


    20.8


 





    Borg-Warner Shenglong (Ningbo) Co. Ltd. 



 


    Fans and fan drives


 


 


    1999


 


 


 


    70


    %


 


    China


 


    Ningbo Shenglong Group Co., Ltd.


 


    $


    49.7


 





    BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems Beijing Co. Ltd. 



 


    Transfer cases


 


 


    2000


 


 


 


    80


    %


 


    China


 


    Beijing Automotive Industry Corporation


 


    $


    63.6


 





    SeohanWarner Turbo Systems Ltd. 



 


    Turbochargers


 


 


    2003


 


 


 


    71


    %


 


    Korea


 


    Korea Flange Company


 


    $


    90.0


 





    BorgWarner United Transmission Systems Co. Ltd. 



 


    Transmission components


 


 


    2009


 


 


 


    66


    %


 


    China


 


    China Automobile Development
    United Investment Co., Ltd.


 


    $


    —


 





    BERU Korea Co. Ltd. 



 


    Ignition coils and pumps


 


 


    2001


 


 


 


    51


    %


 


    Korea


 


    Mr. K.B. Mo and Mr. D.H. Kim


 


    $


    45.6


 





    BorgWarner-Vikas Emissions Systems India Private Limited



 


    EGR coolers


 


 


    2007


 


 


 


    60


    %


 


    India


 


    Kenmore Vikas Pvt. Ltd. and Man Mohak Fin. Invest Pvt. Ltd.


 


    $


    5.1


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (a) 
    
    
    In the second quarter of 2008, the Company and BERU completed a
    Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement (“DPTA”),
    giving BorgWarner full control of BERU. For the joint ventures
    in which BERU Systems is a party, the percentage of ownership
    for each joint venture reflects BERU System’s ownership
    percentage.



 


    
    (b) 
    
    
    All sales figures are for the year ended December 31, 2010,
    except NSK-Warner and Turbo Energy Limited. NSK-Warner’s
    sales are reported for the 12 months ended
    November 30, 2010. Turbo Energy Limited’s sales are
    reported for the 12 months ended September 30, 2010.



 


    
    (c) 
    
    
    The Company made purchases from Turbo Energy Limited totaling
    $22.9 million, $24.2 million and $25.4 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008,
    respectively.



 


    
    (d) 
    
    
    BorgWarner Inc. owns 50% of NSK-Warner, which has a 40% interest
    in BorgWarner Transmission Systems Korea, Inc. This gives the
    Company an additional indirect effective ownership percentage of
    20%. This results in a total effective ownership interest of 80%.




 



    Financial
    Information About Geographic Areas


 


    Refer to Note 19, “Reporting Segments and Related
    Information” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this report for financial
    information about geographic areas.


 


    Approximately 74% of the Company’s consolidated sales for
    2010 were outside the United States, including exports. However,
    a portion of such sales were to OEMs headquartered outside the
    United States that produce vehicles that are, in turn, exported
    to the United States.


 



    Customers


 


    Approximately 77% of the Company’s total sales in 2010 were
    for light-vehicle applications; 16% of the Company’s sales
    were to a diversified group of commercial truck, bus,
    construction and agricultural vehicle manufacturers; and the
    remaining 7% to distributors of aftermarket replacement parts.




    
    8



Table of Contents





    For the most recent three-year period, the Company’s
    worldwide sales to the following customers (including their
    subsidiaries) were approximately as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Customer


 


    2010


 


    2009


 


    2008



 






    Volkswagen



 


 


    19


    %


 


 


    22


    %


 


 


    19


    %





    Ford



 


 


    11


    %


 


 


    12


    %


 


 


    9


    %








 


    No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of our
    consolidated sales in any year of the periods presented.


 


    The Company’s automotive products are generally sold
    directly to OEMs substantially pursuant to negotiated annual
    contracts, long-term supply agreements or terms and conditions
    as may be modified by the parties. Deliveries are subject to
    periodic authorizations based upon the production schedules of
    the OEMs. The Company typically ships its products directly from
    its plants to the OEMs.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    Each of the Company’s business units within its two
    reporting segments has its own sales function. Account
    executives for each of our business units are assigned to serve
    specific OEM customers for one or more of a business unit’s
    products. Our account executives spend the majority of their
    time in direct contact with OEM purchasing and engineering
    employees and are responsible for servicing existing business
    and for identifying and obtaining new business. Because of their
    close relationship with OEMs, account executives are able to
    identify and meet customers’ needs based upon their
    knowledge of our products design and manufacturing capabilities.
    Upon securing a new order, account executives participate in
    product launch team activities and serve as a key interface with
    the customers.


 


    In addition, the sales and marketing employees of our Engine
    segment and Drivetrain segment often work together to explore
    cross-development opportunities for the business units. The
    development of
    DualTronic®,

    the Company’s wet-clutch and control-system technology for
    a new-concept automated transmission, is an example of a
    successful collaboration.


 



    Seasonality


 


    The Company’s business is moderately seasonal because the
    Company’s largest North American customers typically halt
    vehicle production for approximately two weeks in July and one
    week in December. Customers in Europe and Asia typically shut
    down vehicle production during portions of July or August and
    one week in the fourth quarter. Accordingly, the Company’s
    third and fourth quarters may reflect those practices.


 



    Research and
    Development


 


    The Company conducts advanced engine and drivetrain research at
    the reporting segment level. This advanced engineering function
    looks to leverage know-how and expertise across product lines to
    create new engine and drivetrain systems and modules that can be
    commercialized. A venture capital fund that was created by the
    Company as seed money for new innovation and collaboration
    across businesses is managed by this function.


 


    In addition, each of the Company’s business units within
    its two reporting segments has its own research and development
    (“R&D”) organization. The Company has
    approximately 700 employees, including engineers, mechanics
    and technicians, engaged in R&D activities at facilities
    worldwide. The Company also operates testing facilities such as
    prototype, measurement and calibration, life cycle testing and
    dynamometer laboratories.


 


    By working closely with the OEMs and anticipating their future
    product needs, the Company’s R&D personnel conceive,
    design, develop and manufacture new proprietary automotive
    components and systems. R&D personnel also work to improve
    current products and production processes. The Company believes
    its commitment to R&D will allow it to obtain new orders
    from its OEM customers.




    
    9



Table of Contents





    The following table presents the Company’s gross and net
    expenditures on R&D activities:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Year Ended December 31,


 




 


 


    2010


 


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 




 


 


    (Millions of dollars)


 



 






    Gross R&D expenditures



 


    $


    233.2


 


 


    $


    219.0


 


 


    $


    273.4


 





    Customer reimbursements



 


 


    (48.2


    )


 


 


    (63.8


    )


 


 


    (67.7


    )




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Net R&D expenditures



 


    $


    185.0


 


 


    $


    155.2


 


 


    $


    205.7


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    The Company’s net R&D expenditures are included in the
    selling, general, and administrative expenses of the
    Consolidated Statements of Operations. Net R&D expenditures
    as a percentage of net sales were 3.3% in 2010 and 3.9% in both
    2009 and 2008. Customer reimbursements are netted against gross
    R&D expenditures upon billing of services performed. The
    Company has contracts with several customers at the
    Company’s various R&D locations. No such contract
    exceeded $6.0 million in any of the years presented.


 



    Patents and
    Licenses


 


    The Company has approximately 4,000 active domestic and foreign
    patents and patent applications pending or under preparation,
    and receives royalties from licensing patent rights to others.
    While it considers its patents on the whole to be important, the
    Company does not consider any single patent, any group of
    related patents or any single license essential to its
    operations in the aggregate or to the operations of any of the
    Company’s business groups individually. The expiration of
    the patents individually and in the aggregate is not expected to
    have a material effect on the Company’s financial position
    or future operating results. The Company owns numerous
    trademarks, some of which are valuable, but none of which are
    essential to its business in the aggregate.


 


    The Company owns the “BorgWarner” and
    “Borg-Warner Automotive” trade names and housemarks,
    and variations thereof, which are material to the Company’s
    business.


 



    Competition


 


    The Company’s operating segments compete worldwide with a
    number of other manufacturers and distributors which produce and
    sell similar products. Many of these competitors are larger and
    have greater resources than the Company. Technological
    innovation, application engineering development, quality, price,
    delivery and program launch support are the primary elements of
    competition.


 


    The Company’s major competitors by product type follow:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Product Type: Engine


 


 


 


    Name of Competitor


 


 



 






    Turbochargers:



 


    Holset (Cummins Inc.)
    Honeywell
    IHI
    Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI)




 


 


 





    Timing devices and chains:



 


    Denso
    Iwis
    Schaeffler Group
    Tsubaki Group




 


 


 





    Emissions systems:



 


    Behr
    Pierburg
    Valeo




 


 


 





    Thermal systems:



 


    Behr
    Horton/Sachs
    Usui




 


 


 





    Diesel cold start, gasoline ignition technology and cabin
    heaters:



 


    Bosch
    NGK






    
    10



Table of Contents








     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Product Type: Drivetrain


 


 


 


    Name of Competitor


 


 



 





 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Torque transfer:



 


    GKN Driveline
    JTEKT
    Magna Powertrain




 


 


 





    Transmission:



 


    Bosch
    Denso
    Dynax
    Schaeffler Group








 


    In addition, a number of the Company’s major OEM customers
    manufacture, for their own use and for others, products which
    compete with the Company’s products. Other current OEM
    customers could elect to manufacture products to meet their own
    requirements or to compete with the Company. There can be no
    assurance that the Company’s business will not be adversely
    affected by increased competition in the markets in which it
    operates.


 


    For many of its products, the Company’s competitors include
    suppliers in parts of the world that enjoy economic advantages
    such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs and, in some
    cases, export subsidies
    and/or raw
    materials subsidies. Also, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.


 



    Workforce


 


    As of December 31, 2010, the Company and its consolidated
    subsidiaries had a salaried and hourly workforce of
    approximately 17,500 (as compared with approximately 12,500 at
    December 31, 2009), of which approximately 5,000 were in
    the U.S. Approximately 23% of the Company’s
    U.S. workforce is unionized. The hourly workforces at
    certain of our international facilities are also unionized. The
    Company believes its present relations with our workforce to be
    satisfactory.


 


    Our only domestic collective bargaining agreement is for our
    Ithaca and Cortland, New York facilities. This agreement expires
    in September 2012.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    The Company uses a variety of raw materials in the production of
    its automotive products including steel, aluminum, copper,
    plastic resins, and certain alloy elements. Manufacturing
    operations for each of the Company’s operating segments are
    dependent upon natural gas, fuel oil, and electricity.


 


    Due to a global economic recovery in 2010, commodity prices
    increased after dropping sharply in 2009. The 2009 decline in
    commodity prices was due to falling global demand and oversupply.


 


    As developed economies continue to recover and auto production
    accelerates, certain commodities may experience temporary
    shortages and inflated prices until production volumes again
    reach equilibrium with market demands. The Company uses a
    variety of tactics in order to limit the impact of supply
    shortages and inflationary pressures.


 


    The Company’s global procurement organization works to
    accelerate cost reductions, purchases from lower cost regions,
    supplier rationalization, risk mitigation efforts, and
    collaborative buying activities. In addition, the Company uses
    long-term contracts, cost sharing arrangements, design changes,
    customer buy programs, and limited financial instruments to help
    control costs. The Company intends to use similar measures in
    2011 and beyond. Refer to Note 10, “Financial
    Instruments” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this report for information related
    to the Company’s hedging activities.


 


    For  2011, the Company believes that its supplies of raw
    materials and energy are adequate and available from multiple
    sources to support its manufacturing requirements.




    11



Table of Contents






    Available
    Information


 


    Through its Internet website (www.borgwarner.com), the Company
    makes available, free of charge, its Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    all amendments to those reports, and other filings with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after they are filed or furnished. The Company also
    makes the following documents available on its Internet website:
    the Audit Committee Charter; the Compensation Committee Charter;
    the Corporate Governance Committee Charter; the Company’s
    Corporate Governance Guidelines; the Company’s Code of
    Ethical Conduct; and the Company’s Code of Ethics for CEO
    and Senior Financial Officers. You may also obtain a copy of any
    of the foregoing documents, free of charge, if you submit a
    written request to Investor Relations, 3850 Hamlin Road, Auburn
    Hills, Michigan 48326.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and certain other
    information concerning the executive officers of the Company as
    of February 10, 2011.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name


 


    Age


 


    Position With Company



 






    Timothy M. Manganello



 

 


    60

 


 


    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer





    Robin J. Adams



 

 


    57

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
    Administrative Officer





    John Sanderson



 

 


    58

 


 


    Executive Vice President





    Roger J. Wood



 

 


    48

 


 


    Executive Vice President





    Jan Bertsch



 

 


    54

 


 


    Vice President and Treasurer





    Daniel CasaSanta



 

 


    56

 


 


    Vice President





    John J. Gasparovic



 

 


    53

 


 


    Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary





    Ronald T. Hundzinski



 

 


    52

 


 


    Vice President and Controller





    Janice K. McAdams



 

 


    52

 


 


    Vice President, Human Resources





    James R. Verrier



 

 


    48

 


 


    Vice President





    Thomas Waldhier



 

 


    48

 


 


    Vice President








 


    Mr. Manganello has been Chairman of the Board since June
    2003 and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since February
    2003. Mr. Manganello is also a director of Bemis Company,
    Inc. and Zep Inc. and he serves as the Board Chairman of Federal
    Reserve Bank of Chicago, Detroit branch.


 


    Mr. Adams has been Executive Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer since April
    2004. Mr. Adams serves as a member of BorgWarner’s
    Board of Directors. Mr. Adams also is a director of
    Carlisle Companies Inc.


 


    Mr. Sanderson has been Executive Vice President of the
    Company and Group President and General Manager of the
    Drivetrain Group since January 2010. From February 2009 until
    December 2009 he was Vice President of the Company and President
    and General Manager of BorgWarner Transmission Systems Inc. From
    October 1999 until June 2008 he was Chief Executive Officer,
    Americas of Siemens VDO.


 


    Mr. Wood has been Executive Vice President of the Company
    since May 2009 and Group President of the Engine Group since
    January 2010. He was President of BorgWarner Turbo Systems Inc.
    and BorgWarner Emissions Systems Inc. from August 2005 through
    December 2009.


 


    Ms. Bertsch has been Vice President and Treasurer of the
    Company since November 30, 2009. From July 2008 through
    November 2009 she was Senior Vice President, Treasurer, and
    Chief Information Officer for Chrysler Group, LLC and Chrysler
    LLC. From May 2006 through June 2008 she was Vice President and
    Chief Information Officer of Daimler Chrysler’s Chrysler
    Group and Mercedes Benz NAFTA organizations and Chrysler LLC.
    From July 2001 through April 2006 she was Vice President, Global
    Sales and Marketing Finance for Chrysler LLC.


 


    Mr. CasaSanta has been Vice President of the Company and
    President and General Manager of BorgWarner Thermal Systems Inc.
    (“Thermal Systems”) since January 2010. He was General
    Manager of Thermal Systems from June 2009 through December 2009.
    He was President and General Manager of





    
    12



Table of Contents





    BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems Inc. (“TTS”) from June
    2008 until June 2009. He was Vice President and General Manager
    of Thermal Systems from January 2003 until June 2008.


 


    Mr. Gasparovic has been Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of the Company since January 2007. He was Senior Vice
    President and General Counsel of Federal-Mogul Corporation from
    February 2005 until December 2006.


 


    Mr. Hundzinski has been Vice President and Controller of
    the Company since April 2010. He was Vice President of Finance
    of BorgWarner Turbo Systems from June 2005 to April 2010.


 


    Ms. McAdams has been Vice President, Human Resources since
    March 2010. She was Director of Compensation and Benefits from
    May 2005 to March 2010. She was Vice President of Human
    Resources at Metaldyne from January 2004 until December 2004.


 


    Mr. Verrier has been Vice President of the Company and
    President and General Manager of BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc.
    (“Morse TEC”) since January 2010. He was Vice
    President and General Manager, Passenger Car of BorgWarner Turbo
    Systems Inc. from January 2006 through December 2009. He was
    Vice President and General Manager of BorgWarner Turbo Europe
    from November 2004 until January 2006.


 


    Mr. Waldhier has been Vice President of the Company since
    November 2008 and President and General Manager of BorgWarner
    BERU and Emissions Systems since January 2010. He was Chief
    Executive Officer of BERU from October 2007 through December
    2009 when it ceased to be a publicly held German company. He was
    Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of SAS
    Automotive from April 2004 until October 2007.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The following risk factors and other information included in
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    should be considered. The risks and uncertainties described
    below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently
    deem immaterial also may impact our business operations. If any
    of the following risks occur, our business including its
    financial performance, financial condition, operating results
    and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Our industry
    is cyclical and our results of operations will be adversely
    affected by industry downturns.


 


    Automotive and truck production and sales are cyclical and
    sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors
    including interest rates, consumer credit, and consumer spending
    and preferences. Economic declines that result in significant
    reduction in automotive or truck production would have a
    material adverse effect on our sales to original equipment
    manufacturers.


 


    We continue to take steps to realign and resize our production
    capacity and cost structure to meet current and projected
    operational and market requirements. Significant declines in the
    automotive industry and financial declines and restructurings by
    our significant customers may make it necessary to take
    restructuring actions and charges.


 



    We are
    dependent on market segments that use our key products.
    Decreased demand in those segments could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Some of our products, in particular turbochargers, are currently
    used primarily in diesel passenger cars and commercial vehicles.
    Any significant reduction in production in these market segments
    or loss of business in these market segments could have a
    material adverse effect on our sales to original equipment
    manufacturers.


 



    We face strong
    competition.


 


    We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and
    distributors that produce and sell products similar to ours.
    Price, quality, delivery, technological innovation, application
    engineering development and program launch support are the
    primary elements of competition. Our competitors include
    vertically





    
    13



Table of Contents





    integrated units of our major original equipment manufacturer
    customers, as well as a large number of independent domestic and
    international suppliers. We are not as large as a number of
    these companies and do not have as many financial or other
    resources. The competitive environment has changed dramatically
    over the past few years as our traditional U.S. original
    equipment manufacturer customers, faced with intense
    international competition, have expanded their worldwide
    sourcing of components. As a result, we have experienced
    competition from suppliers in other parts of the world that
    enjoy economic advantages, such as lower labor costs, lower
    health care costs and, in some cases, export or raw materials
    subsidies. Increased competition could adversely affect our
    businesses.


 



    We are under
    substantial pressure from original equipment manufacturers to
    reduce the prices of our products.


 


    There is substantial and continuing pressure on original
    equipment manufacturers to reduce costs, including costs of
    products we supply. Although original equipment manufacturers
    have indicated that they will continue to rely on outside
    suppliers, a number of our major original equipment manufacturer
    customers manufacture products for their own uses that directly
    compete with our products. These original equipment
    manufacturers could elect to manufacture such products for their
    own uses in place of the products we currently supply. We
    believe that our ability to develop proprietary new products and
    to control our costs will allow us to remain competitive.
    However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to improve or
    maintain our gross margins on product sales to original
    equipment manufacturers or that the trend by original equipment
    manufacturers towards outsourcing will continue.


 


    Annual price reductions to original equipment manufacturer
    customers appear to have become a permanent feature of our
    business environment. To maintain our profit margins, we seek
    price reductions from our suppliers, improve production
    processes to increase manufacturing efficiency, update product
    designs to reduce costs and develop new products, the benefits
    of which support stable or increased prices. Our ability to pass
    through increased raw material costs to our original equipment
    manufacturer customers is limited, with cost recovery often less
    than 100% and often on a delayed basis. We cannot assure you
    that we will be able to reduce costs in an amount equal to
    annual price reductions, increases in raw material costs, and
    increases in employee wages and benefits.


 



    We are
    sensitive to the effects of our major customers’ labor
    relations.


 


    All three of our primary North American customers, Ford,
    Chrysler and General Motors, have major union contracts with the
    United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers
    of America. Because of domestic original equipment
    manufacturers’ dependence on a single union, we are
    affected by labor difficulties and work stoppages at original
    equipment manufacturers’ facilities. Similarly, a majority
    of our global customers’ operations outside of North
    America are also represented by various unions. Any extended
    work stoppage could have an adverse effect on our business.


 



    Part of our
    labor force is unionized which could subject us to work
    stoppages.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, approximately 23% of our
    U.S. workforce was unionized. Our only domestic collective
    bargaining agreement is for our Ithaca and Cortland, New York
    facilities. This agreement expires in September 2012. The hourly
    employees at certain of our international facilities are also
    unionized. While we believe that our relations with our
    employees are satisfactory, a prolonged dispute with our
    employees could have an adverse effect on our business.


 



    We are subject
    to extensive environmental regulations.


 


    Our operations are subject to laws governing, among other
    things, emissions to air, discharges to waters and the
    generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and
    disposal of waste and other materials. We believe that our
    business, operations and activities have been and are being
    operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable
    environmental, health and safety laws. However, the operation of
    automotive parts manufacturing plants entails risks in these
    areas, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur





    
    14



Table of Contents





    material costs or liabilities as a result. Furthermore, through
    various acquisitions over the years, we have acquired a number
    of manufacturing facilities, and we cannot assure you that we
    will not incur material costs and liabilities relating to
    activities that predate our ownership. In addition, potentially
    significant expenditures could be required in order to comply
    with evolving environmental, health and safety laws that may be
    adopted in the future.


 



    We have
    contingent liabilities related to environmental, product
    warranties, regulatory matters, litigation and other
    claims.


 


    We and certain of our current and former direct and indirect
    corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been
    identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
    and certain state environmental agencies and private parties as
    potentially responsible parties at various hazardous waste
    disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
    Compensation and Liability Act and equivalent state laws. As a
    result, as of December 31, 2010, we may be liable for the
    cost of
    clean-up and
    other remedial activities at 38 of these sites.


 


    We work with outside experts to determine a range of potential
    liability for environmental sites. The ranges for each
    individual site are then aggregated into a loss range for the
    total accrued liability. Management’s estimate of the loss
    range for environmental liability, including conditional asset
    retirement obligations, for 2010 is between approximately
    $27 million and $42 million. We record an accrual at
    the most probable amount within the range unless one cannot be
    determined; in which case we record the accrual at the low end
    of the range. Based on information available to us, we have
    established an accrual in our financial statements for indicated
    environmental liabilities of $29.2 million, which includes
    our conditional asset retirement obligation under ASC Topic 410
    of $1.2 million at December 31, 2010. We currently
    expect the substantial portion of this amount to be expended
    over the next three to five years.


 


    We provide warranties to our customers for some of our products.
    Under these warranties, we may be required to bear costs and
    expenses for the repair or replacement of these products. We
    cannot assure you that costs and expenses associated with these
    product warranties will not be material, or that those costs
    will not exceed any amounts accrued for such warranties in our
    financial statement. Based upon information available to us, we
    have established an accrual in our financial statements for
    product warranties of $66.8 million at December 31,
    2010.


 


    We are also party to, or have an obligation to defend a party
    to, various legal proceedings, including those described in
    Note 14 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in the Company’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    We are currently, and may in the future become, subject to legal
    proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. These claims
    typically arise in the normal course of business and may
    include, but not be limited to, commercial or contractual
    disputes with our suppliers, intellectual property matters and
    employment claims. There is a possibility that such claims may
    have an adverse impact on our business that is greater than we
    anticipate.


 



    Our growth
    strategy may prove unsuccessful.


 


    We have a stated goal of increasing revenues and operating
    income at a rate greater than global vehicle production by
    increasing content per vehicle with innovative new components
    and through select acquisitions. We may not meet our goal
    because of any of the following: (a) the failure to develop
    new products which will be purchased by our customers;
    (b) technology changes rendering our products obsolete;
    (c) a reversal of the trend of supplying systems (which
    allows us to increase content per vehicle)
    instead of components; and (d) the failure to
    find suitable acquisition targets or the failure to integrate
    operations of acquired businesses quickly and cost effectively.


 



    We are subject
    to risks related to our international operations.


 


    We have manufacturing and technical facilities in many regions
    and countries, including North America, Europe, China, India,
    South Korea, Japan, and Brazil and sell our products worldwide.
    For 2010,





    
    15



Table of Contents





    approximately 74% of our sales were outside North America.
    Consequently, our results could be affected by changes in trade,
    monetary and fiscal policies, trade restrictions or
    prohibitions, import or other charges or taxes, and fluctuations
    in foreign currency exchange rates, limitations on the
    repatriation of funds, changing economic conditions, social
    unrest, political instability and disputes, and international
    terrorism. Compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting
    laws and regulations of various countries is burdensome and
    expensive. See Note 19, “Reporting Segments and
    Related Information” to Consolidated Financial Statements
    in the Company’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    regarding the size of our international operations.


 



    We may not
    realize sales represented by awarded business.


 


    We base our growth projections, in part, on commitments made by
    our customers. These commitments generally renew yearly during a
    program life cycle. If actual production orders from our
    customers do not approximate such commitments, it could
    adversely affect our business.


 



    We are
    impacted by the rising cost of providing pension and other post
    employment benefits.


 


    The automotive industry, like other industries, continues to be
    impacted by the rising cost of providing pension and other post
    employment benefits. To partially address this impact, we
    continue to make adjustments to certain retiree medical and
    pension plans. See Note 11, “Retirement Benefit
    Plans” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the
    Company’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Certain
    defined benefit pension plans we sponsor are currently
    underfunded.


 


    We sponsor certain defined benefit pension plans worldwide that
    are underfunded and will require cash payments. Additionally, if
    the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet
    our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are
    modified, our required contributions may be higher than we
    expect. See Note 11, “Retirement Benefit Plans”
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company’s
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Negative or
    unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial
    outlook of our operations in several jurisdictions could lead to
    changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets
    and other tax accruals that could adversely affect our financial
    performance.


 


    Additionally, we are subject to tax audits by governmental
    authorities in the U.S. and numerous
    non-U.S. jurisdictions.
    Because the results of tax audits are inherently uncertain,
    negative or unexpected results from one or more such tax audits
    could adversely affect our business.


 



    We rely on
    sales to major customers.


 


    We rely on sales to original equipment manufacturers around the
    world. Supply to several of these customers requires significant
    investment by the Company in working capital, plant and
    equipment. Some of our customers are rated by the credit rating
    agencies as below investment grade. The loss of sales to a major
    customer, due to any of a variety of factors including
    non-renewal of purchase orders, the customer’s financial
    hardship or other unforeseen reasons, could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Furthermore, some of our sales are concentrated. Our worldwide
    sales in 2010 to Volkswagen and Ford constituted approximately
    19% and 11%, respectively, of our 2010 consolidated sales.


 



    Suppliers’
    economic distress could result in the disruption of our
    operations and could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Rapidly changing industry conditions such as volatile production
    volumes; credit tightness; changes in foreign currencies; raw
    material, commodity, transportation, and energy price
    escalation; drastic changes in consumer preferences; and others
    could adversely affect our supply chain, and sometimes with
    little advanced notice. These conditions could also result in
    increased commercial disputes and supply





    
    16



Table of Contents





    interruption risks. In certain instances, it would be difficult
    and expensive for us to change suppliers that are critical to
    our business. On occasion, we must provide financial support to
    distressed suppliers or take other measures to protect our
    supply lines. While we have taken definite actions to mitigate
    these factors, we cannot predict with certainty the potential
    adverse effects these costs might have on our business.


 



    We continue to
    face highly volatile commodity costs used in the production of
    our products.


 


    The Company uses a variety of commodities (including steel,
    nickel, copper, aluminum, plastic resins, other raw materials
    and energy) and materials purchased in various forms such as
    castings, powder metal, forgings, stampings, and bar stock.
    Increasing commodity costs will have an impact on our results.
    We have sought to alleviate the impact of increasing costs by
    including a material pass-through provision in our customer
    contracts wherever possible or by selectively hedging certain
    commodity exposures. Customers frequently challenge these
    contractual provisions and rarely pay the full cost of any
    materials increases. The discontinuation of ability to
    pass-through or hedge increasing commodity costs would adversely
    affect our business.


 


    From time to time, commodity prices may also fall rapidly. When
    this happens, suppliers may withdraw capacity from the market
    until prices improve which may cause periodic supply
    interruptions. The same may be true of our transportation
    carriers and energy providers.


 



    We could be
    adversely affected by supply shortages of components from our
    suppliers.


 


    In an effort to manage and reduce the cost of purchased goods
    and services, we have been rationalizing our supply base. As a
    result, we are dependent on fewer sources of supply for certain
    components used in the manufacture of our products. The Company
    selects suppliers based on total value (including total landed
    price, quality, delivery, and technology), taking into
    consideration their production capacities and financial
    condition. We expect that they will deliver to our stated
    written expectations.


 


    However, there can be no assurance that capacity limitations,
    labor unrest, weather emergencies, commercial disputes,
    government actions, riots, wars, sabotage, non-conforming parts,
    acts of terrorism, “Acts of God”, or other problems
    experienced by our suppliers will not result in occasional
    shortages or delays in their supply of components to us. If we
    were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of
    critical components from any of our suppliers and could not
    procure the components from other sources, we would be unable to
    meet the production schedules for some of our key products and
    could miss customer delivery expectations. This would adversely
    affect our customer relations and business.


 



    A downgrade in
    the ratings of our debt could restrict our ability to access the
    debt capital markets.


 


    Changes in the ratings that rating agencies assign to our debt
    may ultimately impact our access to the debt capital markets and
    the costs we incur to borrow funds. If ratings for our debt fall
    below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets
    could become restricted.


 


    Additionally, our revolving credit agreement includes an
    increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are
    downgraded. The interest costs on our revolving credit agreement
    are based on a rating grid agreed to in our credit agreement.
    Further, an increase in the level of our indebtedness and
    related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse
    general economic and industry conditions and may affect our
    ability to obtain additional financing.


 



    Conditions in
    the automotive industry may adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Our financial performance depends on conditions in the global
    automotive industry. Original equipment manufacturers have
    experienced difficulties from a weakened economy and tightened
    credit markets. If our customers reduce their orders to us, it
    would adversely affect our results of operations. A prolonged
    downturn in the automotive industry or a significant product mix
    shift due to consumer demand could require us to shut down
    plants or incur impairment charges. Continued uncertainty
    relating to the financial condition of automakers may adversely
    affect our business.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    We are subject
    to possible insolvency of financial
    counterparties.


 


    The Company engages in numerous financial transactions and
    contracts including insurance policies, letters of credit,
    credit line agreements, financial derivatives, and investment
    management agreements involving various counterparties. The
    Company is subject to the risk that one or more of these
    counterparties may become insolvent and therefore be unable to
    discharge its obligations under such contracts.


 



    We are subject
    to possible insolvency of outsourced service
    providers.


 


    The Company relies on third party service providers for
    administration of workers’ compensation claims, health care
    benefits, pension benefits, stockholder and bondholder
    registration and similar services. These service providers
    contribute to the efficient conduct of the Company’s
    business. Insolvency of one or more of these service providers
    could adversely affect our business.


 



    Our business
    success depends on attracting and retaining qualified
    personnel.


 


    Our ability to sustain and grow our business requires us to
    hire, retain and develop a highly skilled and diverse management
    team and workforce worldwide. Any unplanned turnover or
    inability to attract and retain key employees in numbers
    sufficient for our needs could adversely affect our business.


 



    We are subject
    to business continuity risks associated with increasing
    centralization of our information technology
    systems.


 


    To improve efficiency and reduce costs, we have regionally
    centralized the information systems that support our business
    processes such as invoicing, payroll and general management
    operations. If the centralized systems are disrupted or
    disabled, key business processes could be interrupted, which
    could adversely affect our business.


 



    A variety of
    other factors could adversely affect our business.


 


    Any of the following could materially and adversely affect our
    business: the loss of or changes in supply contracts or sourcing
    strategies of our major customers or suppliers;
    start — up expenses associated with new vehicle
    programs or delays or cancellation of such programs,
    underutilization of our manufacturing facilities, which can be
    dependent on a single product line or customer; inability to
    recover engineering and tooling costs; market and financial
    consequences of recalls that may be required on products we
    supplied; delays or difficulties in new product development; the
    possible introduction of similar or superior technologies by
    others; and global excess capacity and vehicle platform
    proliferation.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B