Item 1A. Risk Factors.
    
    Employees 
     
        As of
December 31, 2007, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries had
approximately 17,700 salaried and hourly employees (as compared with
approximately 17,400 employees at December 31, 2006), of which
approximately 6,700 were U.S. employees.  Approximately 25% of
the Company’s U.S. workforce is unionized. The hourly employees at certain
of our international facilities are also unionized. The Company believes its
present relations with employees to be satisfactory.
        Our two most
significant domestic collective bargaining agreements are for our Muncie,
Indiana plant and our Ithaca and Cortland, New York  facilities. The
Muncie agreement expires in April 2009.  Workers at the New York
facilities elected a new union in December 2007.  It is expected that
both parties will bargain in good faith beginning in the first quarter of
2008.  It is our expectation that an agreement will be reached, though
no assurances can be given.
     
    Raw
Materials 
     
        Continuing a trend
which began in 2004, several raw materials used in the Company’s products hit
record pricing levels in 2007, including steel, copper, resins, nickel and
certain alloying elements. This was due to a host of supply and demand
factors.
     
        Despite these
challenges, the Company used a variety of tactics in order to limit the impact
of inflationary prices and supply shortages. The Company formed a global
procurement organization to accelerate: cost reductions, purchases from lower
cost regions, risk mitigation efforts, and collaborative buying activities. In
addition, the Company used long-term contracts, cost sharing arrangements,
design changes, customer buy programs, and hedging instruments to help control
costs. The Company intends to use similar measures in 2008 and
beyond.  See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the
Company’s Summary Annual Report.
     
        For 2008, the Company
believes that its supplies of raw materials and energy are adequate and
available from multiple sources to support its manufacturing requirements.
Manufacturing operations for each of the Company’s operating segments are
dependent upon natural gas, fuel oil, and electricity.
    
     Environmental Regulation and
Proceedings 
     
        The Company and
certain of its current and former direct and indirect corporate predecessors,
subsidiaries and divisions have been identified by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental agencies and
private parties as potentially responsible parties ("PRPs") at various hazardous
waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act ("Superfund") and equivalent state laws and, as
such, may presently be liable for the cost of clean-up and other remedial
activities at 34
such sites.  Responsibility for clean-up and other remedial activities at a
Superfund site is typically shared among PRPs based on an allocation
formula.
     
        The Company believes
that none of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a
material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position, or
cash flows.  Generally, this is because either the estimates of the maximum
potential liability at a site are not large or the liability will be shared
with other PRPs, although no assurance can be given with respect to the
ultimate outcome of any such matter.
     
        Based on information
available to the Company (which in most cases includes: an estimate of
allocation of liability among PRPs; the probability that other PRPs, many of
whom are large, solvent public companies, will fully pay the cost apportioned to
them; currently available information from PRPs and/or federal or state
environmental agencies concerning the scope of contamination and estimated
remediation and consulting costs; remediation alternatives; and estimated legal
fees), the Company has established an accrual for indicated environmental
liabilities with a balance at December 31, 2007 of $14.5 million. 
Excluding the Crystal Springs site discussed below for which $4.9 million has
been accrued, the Company has accrued amounts that do not 
     
    
      
         
      
      
        11
        
          
        
      
      
         
      
    
    exceed $3.0 million
related to any individual site and management does not believe that the costs
related to any of these other individual sites will have a material adverse
effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial
condition.  The Company expects to pay out substantially all of the
amounts accrued for environmental liability over the next three to five
years.
     
        In connection with
the sale of Kuhlman Electric Corporation, the Company agreed to indemnify the
buyer and Kuhlman Electric for certain environmental liabilities then unknown to
the Company relating to certain operations of Kuhlman Electric that 
pre-date the Company's 1999 acquisition of Kuhlman Electric.  During 2000,
Kuhlman Electric notified the Company that it discovered potential environmental
contamination at its Crystal Springs, Mississippi plant while undertaking an
expansion of the plant.  The Company is continuing to work with the
Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality and Kuhlman Electric to
investigate and remediate to the extent necessary, historical contamination
at the plant and surrounding area.  Kuhlman Electric and others, including
the Company, were sued in numerous related lawsuits, in which multiple claimants
alleged personal injury and property damage.  In 2005, the Company and
other defendants entered into settlements that resolved approximately 99% of the
then known personal injury and property damage claims relating to the alleged
environmental contamination.  Those settlements involved payments by the
Company of $28.5 million in the second half of 2005 and $15.7 million in the
first quarter of 2006, in exchange for, among other things, the dismissal with
prejudice of these lawsuits.
     
        In December 2007, a
lawsuit was filed against Kuhlman Electric and others, including the Company, on
behalf of approximately 209 plaintiffs, alleging personal injury relating to
alleged environmental contamination.  Given the early stage of the
litigation, the Company cannot make any prediction as to the outcome but its
current intention is to vigorously defend against the
suit.    
     
    Available
Information 
     
        Through its Internet
website (www.borgwarner.com), the Company makes available, free of charge, its
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and other filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as soon as reasonably practicable
after they are filed or furnished. The Company also makes the following
documents available on its Internet website: the Audit Committee Charter; the
Compensation Committee Charter; the Corporate Governance Committee Charter; the
Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines; the Company’s Code of Ethical
Conduct; and the Company’s Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior Financial Officers.
You may also obtain a copy of any of the foregoing documents, free of charge, if
you submit a written request to Mary Brevard, Vice President, Investor
Relations, 3850 Hamlin Road, Auburn Hills, Michigan 48326.
     
    Executive
Officers of the Registrant 
     
        Set
forth below are the names, ages, positions and certain other information
concerning the executive officers of the Company as of February 14,
2008.
     
    
      
          
            
              Name
            
            
              Age
            
            
              Position
      With Company
            
          
          
             
    
             
    
             
    
          
          
            
                      
      Timothy M. Manganello
            
             
    
            
              58
            
            
              Chairman and
      Chief Executive Officer
            
          
          
            
                      
      Robin J. Adams
            
             
    
            
              54
            
            
              Executive
      Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative
      Officer
            
          
          
            
                      
      Angela J. D’Aversa
            
             
    
            
              61
            
            
              Vice
      President, Human Resources
            
          
          
            
                 John
      J. Gasparovic
            
             
    
            
              50
            
            
              Vice
      President, General Counsel & Secretary
            
          
          
            
                      
      Anthony D. Hensel
            
             
    
            
              49
            
            
              Vice
      President and Treasurer
            
          
          
            
                      
      Bernd W. Matthes
            
             
    
            
              47
            
            
              Vice
      President
            
          
          
            
                      
      Cynthia A. Niekamp
            
             
    
            
              48
            
            
              Vice
      President
            
          
          
            
                      
      Jeffrey L. Obermayer
            
             
    
            
              52
            
            
              Vice
      President and Controller
            
          
          
            
                      
      Alfred Weber
            
             
    
            
              50
            
            
              Vice
      President
            
          
          
            
                      
      Roger J. Wood
            
             
    
            
              45
            
            
              Vice
      President
            
          
      
    
       
    
      
         
      
      
        12
        
          
        
      
      
         
      
    
        Mr. Manganello
has been Chairman of the Board since June 2003 and Chief Executive Officer since
February 2003. He was also President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company
from February 2002 until February 2003. He was Executive Vice President from
June 2001 until February 2002. He was Vice President of the Company from
February 1999 to June 2001 and President and General Manager of BorgWarner
TorqTransfer Systems Inc. (“TorqTransfer Systems”) from February 1999 until
February 2002.
     
        Mr. Adams has
been Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative
Officer since April 2004 and was elected to the Board of Directors in April
2005. He was Executive Vice President — Finance and Chief Financial Officer
of American Axle & Manufacturing Holdings Inc. (“American Axle”) from
July 1999 until April 2004. Prior to joining American Axle, he was Vice
President and Treasurer and principal financial officer of BorgWarner from May
1993 until June 1999.
        
        Ms. D’Aversa has
been Vice President, Human Resources of the Company since October 2004. She was
Acting Vice President, Human Resources from April 2004 until September 2004 and
Senior Director, Management and Organization Development from April 2004 until
September 2004. She was Director Management & Organization Development
from January 1995 until March 2004.     
      
        Mr. Gasparovic
has been Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company since
January 2007.  After working as a private investor from January 2004 until
January 2005, he was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of
Federal-Mogul Corporation from February 2005 until December 2006.  
From February 2003 until December 2003, he was Executive Vice President, General
Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer and from May 2000
until January 2003 he was Vice President , General Counsel (and Secretary since
January 2001) of Roadway Corporation.
     
        Mr. Hensel has
been Vice President of the Company since July 2002 and Treasurer since December
2004. He was Vice President, Business Development of the Company from July 2002
until December 2004. He was Vice President, Finance of BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc.
from July 1999 to June 2002.  
      
        Dr. Matthes has
been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of
BorgWarner Transmission Systems Inc. (“Transmission Systems”) since July 2005.
He was General Manager, Operations Europe for Transmission Systems from August
2004 to July 2005. He was Vice President — Operations Europe for
Transmission Systems from January 2003 to August 2004. He was Managing Director
for Transmission Systems Europe from December 2002 to January 2003. He was
General Manager, DualTronicTM from
November 2000 to July 2005.  
         
        Ms. Niekamp has
been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of
TorqTransfer Systems since July 2004. She was Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Mead Westvaco Corporation ("Mead") from April 2003
until March 2004. She was Senior Vice President, Strategy & Specialty
Operations of Mead from February 2002 until April 2003. She was President
and General Manager of the Mead Specialty Paper Division from July 1998 until
January 2002.
       
        Mr. Obermayer
has been Vice President of the Company since December 1999 and Controller since
December 2004. He was Vice President and Treasurer of the Company from December
1999 until December 2004.     
      
         Mr. Weber has
been Vice President of the Company since July 2002. He has been President and
General Manager of BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc. (“Morse TEC”) since August 2005 and
BorgWarner Thermal Systems Inc. since January 2003. He was President and General
Manager of BorgWarner Emissions Systems Inc. from July 2002 until July 2005. He
was Vice President, Passenger Car Operations, BorgWarner Turbo Systems Inc. from
January 1999 to June 2002.
      
        Mr. Wood has
been Vice President of the Company since January 2001 and President of
BorgWarner Turbo Systems Inc. and BorgWarner Emissions Systems Inc. since August
2005. He was President and General Manager of Morse TEC from January 2001 until
July 2005.
     
    
      
         
      
      
        13
        
          
        
      
      
         
      
    
    Item 1A. Risk Factors  
     
    Our
industry is cyclical and our results of operations will be adversely affected by
industry downturns.
    
    Automotive and
truck production and sales are cyclical and sensitive to general economic
conditions and other factors. Significant reduction in automotive or truck
production would have a material adverse effect on our sales to original
equipment manufacturers and our financial position, operating results and cash
flows.
    
    We
are dependent on sport-utility vehicle and light-truck market segments and are
affected by decreasing demand in those segments.
     
    Some of our
products, in particular four-wheel drive transfer cases, are currently used in
four-wheel drive systems primarily for sport-utility vehicles and
light-trucks.  Any significant reduction in production in this market
segment or loss of business in this market segment could have a material adverse
effect on our sales to original equipment manufacturers and our financial
position, operating results and cash flows.
    
    We
face strong competition.
    
    We
compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that
produce and sell products similar to ours. Price, quality and technological
innovation are the primary elements of competition. Our competitors include
vertically integrated units of our major original equipment manufacturer
customers, as well as a large number of independent domestic and international
suppliers. We are not as large as a number of these companies and do not have as
many financial or other resources. The competitive environment has changed
dramatically over the past few years as our traditional U.S. original equipment
manufacturer customers, faced with intense international competition, have
expanded their worldwide sourcing of components. As a result, we have
experienced competition from suppliers in other parts of the world that enjoy
economic advantages, such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs and, in
some cases, export or raw materials subsidies. Increased competition could
adversely affect our businesses.
    
    We
are under substantial pressure from original equipment manufacturers to reduce
the prices of our products.
    
    There is
substantial and continuing pressure on original equipment manufacturers to
reduce costs, including costs of products we supply. Although original equipment
manufacturers have indicated that they will continue to rely on outside
suppliers, a number of our major original equipment manufacturer customers
manufacture products for their own uses that directly compete with our products.
These original equipment manufacturers could elect to manufacture such products
for their own uses in place of the products we currently supply. We believe that
our ability to develop proprietary new products and to control our costs will
allow us to remain competitive. However, we cannot assure you that we will be
able to improve or maintain our gross margins on product sales to original
equipment manufacturers or that the recent trend by original equipment
manufacturers towards increased outsourcing will continue.
    
    Annual price
reductions to original equipment manufacturer customers appear to have become a
permanent feature of our business environment. In 2007, the combination of price
reductions to customers and cost increases for material, labor and overhead,
totaled approximately $136 million. To maintain our profit margins, we seek
price reductions from our suppliers, improve production processes to increase
manufacturing efficiency, update product designs to reduce costs and develop new
products, the benefits of which support stable or increased prices. Our ability
to pass through increased raw material costs to our original equipment
manufacturer customers is limited, with cost recovery less than 100% and often
on a delayed basis. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce costs in
an amount equal to annual price reductions and increases in raw material
costs.
     
    
      
         
      
      
        14
        
          
        
      
      
         
      
    
    We
are sensitive to the effects of our major customers’ labor
relations.
     
    All three of our
primary North American customers, Ford, Chrysler and General Motors, have major
union contracts with the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement
Workers of America. Because of domestic original equipment manufacturers’
dependence on a single union, we are affected by labor difficulties and work
stoppages at original equipment manufacturers’ facilities. Similarly, a majority
of our global customers’ operations outside of North America are also
represented by various unions. Any extended work stoppage could have an adverse
effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows.
    
    Part
of our labor force is unionized.
    
    As
of December 31, 2007, approximately 25% of our U.S. workforce was unionized. Our
two most significant domestic collective bargaining agreements are for our
Muncie, Indiana plant and our Ithaca and Cortland, New
York  facilities. The Muncie agreement expires in April
2009.  Workers at the New York facilities elected a new union in
December 2007.  It is expected that both parties will bargain in good
faith beginning in the first quarter 2008.  It is our expectation that
an agreement will be reached though no assurances can be given.  The
hourly employees at certain of our international facilities are also unionized.
While we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, a
prolonged dispute with our employees could have an adverse effect on our
financial position, operating results and cash flows.
    
    We
are subject to extensive environmental regulations.
    
    Our operations are
subject to laws governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to
waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and
disposal of waste and other materials. We believe that our business, operations
and activities have been and are being operated in compliance in all material
respects with applicable environmental and health and safety laws. However, the
operation of automotive parts manufacturing plants entails risks in these areas,
and we cannot assure you that we will not incur material costs or liabilities as
a result. Furthermore, through various acquisitions over the years, we have
acquired a number of manufacturing facilities, and we cannot assure you that we
will not incur materials costs and liabilities relating to activities that
predate our ownership. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could
be required in order to comply with evolving environmental and health and safety
laws that may be adopted in the future.
    
    We
believe that the overall impact of compliance with regulations and legislation
protecting the environment will not have a material adverse effect on our future
financial position, operating results and cash flows, but we cannot assure you
that this will always be the case. Capital expenditures and expenses in 2007
attributable to compliance with environmental laws were not
material.
    
    We have
contingent liabilities related to environmental, product
warranties, regulatory matters, litigation and other claims.
    
    We
and certain of our current and former direct and indirect corporate
predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been identified by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental agencies
and private parties as potentially responsible parties at various hazardous
waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act and equivalent state laws. As a result, as of
December 31, 2007, we may be liable for the cost of clean-up and other remedial
activities at 34 of
these sites.
    
    We
work with outside experts to determine a range of potential liability for
environmental sites.  The ranges for each individual site are then
aggregated into a loss range for the total accrued liability.  Management's
estimate of the loss range for 2007 is between $14.4 million and $25.1
million.  We record an accrual at the most probable amount within the range
unless one cannot be determined; in which case we record the accrual at the low
end of the range.  Based on information available to us, we have
established an accrual in our financial statements for indicated environmental
liabilities, including our conditional asset retirement obligation under FIN 47,
with a total balance of $15.5 million at December 31, 2007. We currently
expect the substantial portion of this amount to be expended over the next three
to five years.
    
    
      
         
      
      
        15
        
          
        
      
      
         
      
    
    We
believe that none of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have
a material adverse effect on our future financial position or operating results,
either because estimates of the maximum potential liability at a site are not
large or because liability will be shared with other potentially responsible
parties. However, we cannot assure you of the ultimate outcome.
    
    We
provide warranties to our customers for some of our products. Under these
warranties, we may be required to bear costs and expenses for the repair or
replacement of these products. We cannot assure you that costs and expenses
associated with these product warranties will not be material, or that those
costs will not exceed any amounts accrued for such warranties in our financial
statement.
    
    Based upon information available to us, we have
established an accrual in our financial statements for product warranties
of $70.1 million at December 31, 2007.
    
    We are also party to, or have an obligation to
defend a party to, various legal proceedings, including those described in Note
14 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's
Summary Annual Report. Although we believe that none of these matters is likely
to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or future operating
results, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any such matter
or proceeding.
    
    Our
growth strategy may prove unsuccessful.
    
    We have a stated goal of increasing revenues
and operating revenues at a rate greater than global vehicle production by
increasing content per vehicle with innovative new components and through select
acquisitions. We may not meet our goal because of any of the following:
(a) the failure to develop new products which will be purchased by our
customers; (b) technology changes rendering our products obsolete; (c) a
reversal of the trend of supplying systems (which allows us to increase content
per vehicle) instead of components; and (d) the failure to find suitable
acquisition targets or the failure to integrate operations of acquired
businesses quickly and cost effectively.
    
    We
are subject to risks related to our international operations.
    
    We
have manufacturing and technical facilities in many regions and countries,
including North America, Europe, China, India, South Korea, Japan, and Brazil
and sell our products worldwide. For 2007, approximately 66% of our sales were
outside North America. Consequently, our results could be affected by changes in
trade, monetary and fiscal policies, trade restrictions or prohibitions, import
or other charges or taxes, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates,
changing economic conditions, and political instability and disputes. See Note
20 to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Summary Annual
Report.
    
    We
may not realize sales represented by awarded business.
    
    We base our growth projections, in part, on
commitments made by our customers. These commitments generally renew yearly
during a program life cycle. If actual production orders from our customers do
not approximate such commitments, it could adversely affect on our growth and
financial performance.
    
    We
are impacted by the rising cost of providing pension and other post employment
benefits.
    
        The automotive
industry, like other industries, continues to be impacted by the rising cost of
providing pension and other post employment benefits. To partially address this
impact, we announced adjustments to certain retiree medical and pension plans to
be effective January 1, 2009.  See Note 11 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in the Company's Summary Annual
Report.  
      
    Certain
defined benefit pension plans we sponsor are currently underfunded.
    
    We sponsor certain defined benefit pension
plans worldwide that are underfunded and will require cash payments.
Additionally, if the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not
meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our
required contributions may be higher than we expect.  See Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's Summary Annual
Report.
     
    
      
         
      
      
        16
        
          
        
      
      
         
      
    
    Negative
or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of
operations.
    
    Adverse changes in the underlying profitability
and financial outlook of our operations in several jurisdictions could lead to
changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and other tax
accruals that could adversely affect our financial performance.
    
    Additionally, we are subject to tax audits by
governmental authorities in the U.S. and numerous non-U.S.
jurisdictions.  Because the results of tax audits are inherently
uncertain, negative or unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could
adversely affect our financial performance.
    
    We
rely on sales to major customers.
     
         Our worldwide sales
in 2007 to Volkswagen and Ford  constituted approximately 15% and 12%,
respectively, of our 2007 consolidated sales.  Credit rating agencies rate
one of these customers below investment grade.  No other single customer
accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated sales in 2007.  The loss of
a major customer could adversely affect our financial performance.
         
    Economic
distress of suppliers could result in disruption of our operations and have a
material effect on our business.
     
        Some automotive parts
suppliers continue to experience cost pressures and the effects of industry
overcapacity.  These factors have increased pressure on the industry's
supply base, as suppliers cope with higher commodity costs, lower production
volumes and other challenges.  The Company receives certain of its raw
materials from sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers.  The
inability of a supplier to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could
adversely affect our future financial performance.
    
    Increase
in the cost of raw materials could harm our business.
    
    We use various raw materials in our business
such as nickel, aluminum, magnesium, copper, plastic resins, molybdenum and
others.  The prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on
market conditions.  In recent years, we have experienced increases in
freight charges and energy costs as well.  Substantial changes in
these prices affect our operating costs, and to the extent they cannot be
recouped through price increases to our customers, could reduce our
profitability. 
      
    Item 1B