Item 1A. Risk Factors.



    
    10



Table of Contents



 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2006, the Company and its consolidated
    subsidiaries had approximately 17,400 salaried and hourly
    employees (as compared with approximately 17,400 employees at
    December 31, 2005), of which approximately 7,000 were
    U.S. employees. Included in these 17,400 employees are
    approximately 2,600 BERU employees. Approximately 23% of the
    Company’s U.S. work force is unionized. The hourly
    workers at the Company’s
    non-U.S. operations
    are typically unionized. The Company believes its present
    relations with employees to be satisfactory.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    Continuing a trend which began in 2004, several raw materials
    used in the Company’s products hit record pricing levels,
    including steel, copper, resins, nickel and certain alloying
    elements. This was due to a host of supply and demand factors.


 


    Despite these challenges, the Company used a variety of tactics
    in order to limit the impact of inflationary prices and supply
    shortages. The Company formed a global procurement organization
    to accelerate: cost reductions, purchases from lower cost
    regions, risk mitigation efforts, and collaborative buying
    activities. In addition, the Company used long-term contracts,
    cost sharing arrangements, design changes, customer buy
    programs, and hedging instruments to help control costs. The
    Company intends to use similar measures in 2007 and beyond.


 


    For 2007, each of the Company’s operating segments believes
    that its supplies of raw materials and energy are adequate and
    available from multiple sources to support its manufacturing
    requirements. Manufacturing operations for each of the
    Company’s operating segments are dependent upon natural
    gas, fuel oil, and electricity.


 



    Environmental
    Regulation and Proceedings


 


    The Company and certain of its current and former direct and
    indirect corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have
    been identified by the United States Environmental Protection
    Agency and certain state environmental agencies and private
    parties as potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) at
    various hazardous waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive
    Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
    (“Superfund”) and equivalent state laws and, as such,
    may presently be liable for the cost of
    clean-up and
    other remedial activities at 35 such sites. Responsibility for
    clean-up and
    other remedial activities at a Superfund site is typically
    shared among PRPs based on an allocation formula.


 


    The Company believes that none of these matters, individually or
    in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on its
    results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.
    Generally, this is because either the estimates of the maximum
    potential liability at a site are not large or the liability
    will be shared with other PRPs, although no assurance can be
    given with respect to the ultimate outcome of any such matter.


 


    Based on information available to the Company (which in most
    cases, includes: an estimate of allocation of liability among
    PRPs; the probability that other PRPs, many of whom are large,
    solvent public companies, will fully pay the cost apportioned to
    them; currently available information from PRPs
    and/or
    federal or state environmental agencies concerning the scope of
    contamination and estimated remediation and consulting costs;
    remediation alternatives; estimated legal fees; and other
    factors), the Company has established an accrual for indicated
    environmental liabilities with a balance at December 31,
    2006, of approximately $20 million. Excluding the Crystal
    Springs site discussed below for which $10.8 million has
    been accrued, the Company has accrued amounts that do not exceed
    $3.0 million related to any individual site and management
    does not believe that the costs related to any of these other
    individual sites will have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial
    condition. The Company expects to pay out substantially all of
    the accrued environmental liability over the next three to five
    years.


 


    In connection with the sale of Kuhlman Electric Corporation
    (“Kuhlman Electric”), the Company agreed to indemnify
    the buyer and Kuhlman Electric for certain environmental
    liabilities, then unknown to the Company, relating to the past
    operations of Kuhlman Electric. The liabilities at issue result
    from the operations of Kuhlman



    
    11



Table of Contents




    Electric that pre-date the Company’s acquisition of Kuhlman
    Electric’s parent company, Kuhlman Corporation, in 1999.
    During 2000, Kuhlman Electric notified the Company that it
    discovered potential environmental contamination at its Crystal
    Springs, Mississippi plant while undertaking an expansion of the
    plant. The Company is continuing to work with the Mississippi
    Department of Environmental Quality and Kuhlman Electric to
    investigate and remediate to the extent necessary, if any,
    historical contamination at the plant and surrounding area.
    Kuhlman Electric and others, including the Company, were sued in
    numerous related lawsuits, in which multiple claimants alleged
    personal injury and property damage.


 


    The Company and other defendants, including the Company’s
    subsidiary Kuhlman Corporation, entered into a settlement in
    July 2005 regarding approximately 90% of personal injury and
    property damage claims relating to the alleged environmental
    contamination. In exchange for, among other things, the
    dismissal with prejudice of these lawsuits, the defendants
    agreed to pay a total sum of up to $39.0 million in
    settlement funds. The settlement was paid in three approximately
    equal installments. The first two payments of $12.9 million
    were made in the third and fourth quarters of 2005 and
    $13.0 million was paid in the first quarter of 2006.


 


    The same group of defendants entered into a settlement in
    October 2005 regarding approximately 9% of personal injury and
    property damage claims relating to the alleged environmental
    contamination. In exchange for, among other things, the
    dismissal with prejudice of these lawsuits, the defendants
    agreed to pay a total sum of up to $5.4 million in
    settlement funds. The settlement was paid in two approximately
    equal installments in the fourth quarter of 2005 and the first
    quarter of 2006. With this settlement, the Company and other
    defendants have resolved about 99% of the known personal injury
    and property damage claims relating to the alleged environmental
    contamination. The cost of this settlement has been recorded in
    other income in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Through its Internet website (www.borgwarner.com), the Company
    makes available, free of charge, its Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    all amendments to those reports, and other filings with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after they are filed or furnished. The Company also
    makes the following documents available on its Internet website:
    the Audit Committee Charter; the Compensation Committee Charter;
    the Corporate Governance Committee Charter; the Company’s
    Corporate Governance Guidelines; the Company’s Code of
    Ethical Conduct; and the Company’s Code of Ethics for CEO
    and Senior Financial Officers. You may also obtain a copy of any
    of the foregoing documents, free of charge, if you submit a
    written request to Mary Brevard, Vice President, Investor
    Relations and Corporate Communications, 3850 Hamlin Road, Auburn
    Hills, Michigan 48326.



    
    12



Table of Contents



 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and certain other
    information concerning the executive officers of the Company as
    of February 16, 2007.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    Name



 



    Age



 


    Position With Company



 





    Timothy M. Manganello
    



 




    57
    




 




    Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer
    







    Robin J. Adams
    



 




    53
    




 




    Executive Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer
    







    Mary E. Brevard
    



 




    60
    




 




    Vice President, Investor Relations
    and Corporate Communications
    







    William C. Cline
    



 




    57
    




 




    Vice President, Acquisition
    Coordination
    







    Angela J. D’Aversa
    



 




    60
    




 




    Vice President, Human Resources
    







    Jamal M. Farhat
    



 




    47
    




 




    Vice President, Chief Information
    Officer
    







    John J. Gasparovic
    



 




    49
    




 




    Vice President, General
    Counsel & Secretary
    







    Anthony D. Hensel
    



 




    48
    




 




    Vice President and Treasurer
    







    Laurene H. Horiszny
    



 




    51
    




 




    Chief Compliance
    Officer & Assistant Secretary
    







    Bernd W. Matthes
    



 




    46
    




 




    Vice President
    







    John J. McGill
    



 




    52
    




 




    Vice President, Global Supply Chain
    







    Cynthia A. Niekamp
    



 




    47
    




 




    Vice President
    







    Jeffrey L. Obermayer
    



 




    51
    




 




    Vice President and Controller
    







    Mark A. Perlick
    



 




    60
    




 




    Vice President, Technology
    







    Christopher H. Vance
    



 




    47
    




 




    Vice President, Business
    Development and M&A
    







    Alfred Weber
    



 




    49
    




 




    Vice President
    







    Roger J. Wood
    



 




    44
    




 




    Vice President
    










 


    Mr. Manganello has been Chairman of the Board since June
    2003 and Chief Executive Officer since February 2003. He was
    also President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from
    February 2002 until February 2003. He was Executive Vice
    President from June 2001 until February 2002. He was Vice
    President of the Company from February 1999 to June 2001 and
    President and General Manager of BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems
    Inc. (“TorqTransfer Systems”) from February 1999 until
    February 2002.


 


    Mr. Adams has been Executive Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer since April
    2004 and was elected to the Board of Directors in April 2005. He
    was Executive Vice President — Finance and Chief
    Financial Officer of American Axle & Manufacturing
    Holdings Inc. (“American Axle”) from July 1999 until
    April 2004. Prior to joining American Axle, he was Vice
    President and Treasurer and principal financial officer of
    BorgWarner from May 1993 until June 1999.


 


    Ms. Brevard has been Vice President of the Company since
    November 2003. She was Director of Investor Relations and
    Communications from February 1997 until November 2003.


 


    Mr. Cline has been Vice President, Acquisition Coordination
    since January 2005. He was Acting Chief Financial Officer of the
    Company from November 2003 until April 2004 and was Vice
    President and Controller of the Company from May 1993 until
    December 2004.


 


    Ms. D’Aversa has been Vice President, Human Resources
    of the Company since October, 2004. She was Acting Vice
    President, Human Resources from April 2004 until September 2004
    and Senior Director, Management and Organization Development
    from April 2004 until September 2004. She was Director
    Management & Organization Development from January 1995
    until March 2004.


 


    Mr. Farhat has been Vice President and Chief Information
    Officer of the Company since August 2004. He was Chief
    Information Officer and Executive Director of supply chain
    management at LDM Technologies, a $600 million Tier I
    supplier to the automotive industry, from April 1999 until March
    2004.



    
    13



Table of Contents



 


    Mr. Gasparovic has been Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of the Company since January 2007. After working
    as a private investor from January 2004 until January 2005, he
    was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Federal-Mogul
    Corporation from February 2005 until December 2006. From
    February 2003 until December 2003, he was Executive Vice
    President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Chief
    Compliance Officer and from May 2000 until January 2003 he was
    Vice President , General Counsel (and Secretary since January
    2001) of Roadway Corporation.


 


    Mr. Hensel has been Vice President of the Company since
    July 2002 and Treasurer since January 2005. He was Vice
    President, Business Development of the Company from July 2002
    until December 2004. He was Vice President, Finance of
    BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc. from July 1999 to June 2002.


 


    Ms. Horiszny has been Chief Compliance Officer and
    Assistant Secretary since January 2007. She was
    Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the
    Company from May 1993 until December 2006.


 


    Dr. Matthes has been Vice President of the Company and
    President and General Manager of BorgWarner Transmission Systems
    Inc. (“Transmission Systems”) since July 2005. He was
    General Manager, Operations Europe for Transmission Systems from
    August 2004 to July 2005. He was Vice President —
    Operations Europe for Transmission Systems from January 2003 to
    August 2004. He was Managing Director for Transmission Systems
    Europe from December 2002 to January 2003. He was General
    Manager,
    DualTronic®
    from November 2000 to July 2005.


 


    Mr. McGill has been Vice President of the Company since
    October 1999 and Vice President, Global Supply Chain since July
    2004. He was President and General Manager of TorqTransfer
    Systems from December 2002 until July 2004. He was President and
    General Manager of BorgWarner Cooling Systems Inc. from October
    1999 until December 2002.


 


    Ms. Niekamp has been Vice President of the Company and
    President and General Manager of TorqTransfer Systems since July
    2004. She was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
    of Mead Westvaco Corporation (“Mead”) from April 2003
    until March 2004. She was Senior Vice President,
    Strategy & Specialty Operations of Mead from February
    2002 until April 2003. She was President and General Manager of
    the Mead Specialty Paper Division from July 1998 until January
    2002.


 


    Mr. Obermayer has been Vice President of the Company since
    December 1999 and Controller since January 2005. He was Vice
    President and Treasurer of the Company from December 1999 until
    December 2004.


 


    Mr. Perlick has been Vice President, Technology of the
    Company since July 2005. He was Vice President of the Company
    and President of Transmission Systems from September 2004 until
    June 2005. He was Acting President of Transmission Systems from
    November 2003 until August 2004. He was Vice
    President — Engineering of TorqTransfer Systems from
    February 1999 until October 2003 and was Acting President of
    TorqTransfer Systems from February 2002 to December 2002.


 


    Mr. Vance has been Vice President — Business
    Development and M&A since January 2005. He was
    Vice President, Finance for Transmission Systems from
    January 2000 until December 2004.


 


    Mr. Weber has been Vice President of the Company since July
    2002. He has been President and General Manager of BorgWarner
    Morse TEC Inc. (“Morse TEC”) since August 2005 and
    BorgWarner Thermal Systems Inc. since January 2003. He was
    President and General Manager of BorgWarner Emissions Systems
    Inc. from July 2002 until July 2005. He was Vice President,
    Passenger Car Operations, BorgWarner Turbo Systems Inc. from
    January 1999 to June 2002.


 


    Mr. Wood has been Vice President of the Company since
    January 2001 and President of BorgWarner Turbo Systems Inc. and
    BorgWarner Emissions Systems Inc. since August 2005. He was
    President and General Manager of Morse TEC from January 2001
    until July 2005.



    
    14



Table of Contents



 




    
    



    
    Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Our
    industry is cyclical and our results of operations will be
    adversely affected by industry downturns.


 


    Automotive and truck production and sales are cyclical and
    sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors.
    Significant reduction in automotive or truck production would
    have a material adverse effect on our sales to original
    equipment manufacturers and our financial position and operating
    results.


 



    We are
    dependent on sport-utility vehicle and light-truck market
    segments.


 


    Some of our products, in particular four-wheel drive transfer
    cases, are currently used exclusively in four-wheel drive
    systems for sport-utility vehicles and light-trucks. For 2006
    for example, sales of rear-wheel drive transfer cases
    represented 10% of our total consolidated revenue. Any
    significant reduction in production in this market segment or
    loss of business in this market segment would have a material
    adverse effect on our sales to original equipment manufacturers
    and our financial position and operating results.


 



    We
    face strong competition.


 


    We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and
    distributors that produce and sell products similar to ours.
    Price, quality and technological innovation are the primary
    elements of competition. Our competitors include vertically
    integrated units of our major original equipment manufacturer
    customers, as well as a large number of independent domestic and
    international suppliers. We are not as large as a number of
    these companies and do not have as many financial or other
    resources. The competitive environment has changed dramatically
    over the past few years as our traditional U.S. original
    equipment manufacturer customers, faced with intense
    international competition, have expanded their worldwide
    sourcing of components. As a result, we have experienced
    competition from suppliers in other parts of the world that
    enjoy economic advantages, such as lower labor costs, lower
    health care costs and, in some cases, export or raw materials
    subsidies. Increased competition could adversely affect our
    businesses.


 



    We are
    under substantial pressure from original equipment manufacturers
    to reduce the prices of our products.


 


    There is substantial and continuing pressure on original
    equipment manufacturers to reduce costs, including costs of
    products we supply. Although original equipment manufacturers
    have indicated that they will continue to rely on outside
    suppliers, a number of our major original equipment manufacturer
    customers manufacture products for their own uses that directly
    compete with our products. These original equipment
    manufacturers could elect to manufacture such products for their
    own uses in place of the products we currently supply. We
    believe that our ability to develop proprietary new products and
    to control our costs will allow us to remain competitive.
    However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to improve or
    maintain our gross margins on product sales to original
    equipment manufacturers or that the recent trend by original
    equipment manufacturers towards increased outsourcing will
    continue.


 


    Annual price reductions to original equipment manufacturer
    customers appear to have become a permanent feature of our
    business environment. In 2006 and 2005, the combination of price
    reductions to customers and cost increases for material, labor
    and overhead, totaled approximately $155 million and
    $140 million, respectively. To maintain our profit margins,
    we seek price reductions from our suppliers, improve production
    processes to increase manufacturing efficiency, update product
    designs to reduce costs and develop new products the benefits of
    which support stable or increased prices. Our ability to pass
    through increased raw material costs to our original equipment
    manufacturer customers is limited, with cost recovery less than
    100% and often on a delayed basis. We cannot assure you that we
    will be able to reduce costs in an amount equal to annual price
    reductions and increases in raw material costs.



    
    15



Table of Contents



 



    We are
    sensitive to the effects of our major customers’ labor
    relations.


 


    All three of our primary North American customers, Ford,
    DaimlerChrysler and General Motors, have major union contracts
    with the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement
    Workers of America. Because of domestic original equipment
    manufacturers’ dependence on a single union, we are
    affected by labor difficulties and work stoppages at original
    equipment manufacturers’ facilities. Similarly, a majority
    of our global customers’ operations outside of North
    America are also represented by various unions. Any extended
    work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial position and operating results.


 



    Part
    of our labor force is unionized.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, approximately 23% of our
    U.S. employees was unionized. Our two most significant
    domestic collective bargaining agreements are for our Muncie,
    Indiana plant and our Ithaca, New York plants. The Muncie
    agreement expires in April 2009 and the Ithaca agreement expires
    in October 2008. The hourly employees at certain of our
    international facilities are also unionized. While we believe
    that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, a
    prolonged dispute with our employees could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial position and operating results.


 



    We are
    subject to extensive environmental regulations.


 


    Our operations are subject to laws governing, among other
    things, emissions to air, discharges to waters and the
    generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and
    disposal of waste and other materials. We believe that our
    business, operations and activities have been and are being
    operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable
    environmental and health and safety laws. However, the operation
    of automotive parts manufacturing plants entails risks in these
    areas, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur material
    costs or liabilities as a result. Furthermore, through various
    acquisitions over the years, we have acquired a number of
    manufacturing facilities, and we cannot assure you that we will
    not incur material costs and liabilities relating to activities
    that predate our ownership. In addition, potentially significant
    expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving
    environmental and health and safety laws that may be adopted in
    the future.


 


    We believe that the overall impact of compliance with
    regulations and legislation protecting the environment will not
    have a material adverse effect on our future financial position
    or operating results, but we cannot assure you that this will
    always be the case. Capital expenditures and expenses in 2006
    attributable to compliance with environmental laws were not
    material.


 



    We
    have contingent liabilities related to environmental, product
    warranties, regulatory matters, litigation and other
    claims.


 


    We and certain of our current and former direct and indirect
    corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been
    identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
    and certain state environmental agencies and private parties as
    potentially responsible parties at various hazardous waste
    disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
    Compensation and Liability Act and equivalent state laws. As a
    result, as of December 31, 2006, we may be liable for the
    cost of
    clean-up and
    other remedial activities at 35 of these sites.


 


    We work with outside experts to determine a range of potential
    liability for environmental sites. The ranges for each
    individual site are then aggregated into a loss range for the
    total accrued liability. Management’s estimate of the loss
    range for 2006 is between $18.1 million and
    $29.5 million. We record an accrual at the most probable
    amount within the range unless one cannot be determined; in
    which case we record the accrual at the low end of the range.
    Based on information available to us, we have established an
    accrual in our financial statements for indicated environmental
    liabilities, with a balance of $20.0 million at
    December 31, 2006. We currently expect this amount to be
    expended over the next three to five years.


 


    We believe that none of these matters, individually or in the
    aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our future
    financial position or operating results, either because
    estimates of the maximum potential liability at a



    
    16



Table of Contents




    site are not large or because liability will be shared with
    other potentially responsible parties. However, we cannot assure
    you of the ultimate outcome.


 


    We are also party to, or have an obligation to defend a party
    to, various legal proceedings, including those described in
    Note 15 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in the Company’s Annual Report. Although we
    believe that none of these matters is likely to have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition or future operating
    results, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of
    any such matter or proceeding.


 


    We provide warranties to our customers for some of our products.
    Under these warranties, we may be required to bear costs and
    expenses for the repair or replacement of these products. We
    cannot assure you that costs and expenses associated with these
    product warranties will not be material, or that those costs
    will not exceed any amounts accrued for such warranties in our
    financial statement.


 


    Based upon information available to us, we have established an
    accrual in our financial statements for product warranties of
    $60.0 million at December 31, 2006.


 



    Our
    growth strategy may prove unsuccessful.


 


    We have a stated goal of increasing revenues and operating
    revenues at a rate greater than global vehicle production by
    increasing content per vehicle with innovative new components
    and through select acquisitions. We may not meet our goal
    because of any of the following: (a) a significant decrease
    in the production of sport-utility vehicles and light-trucks,
    high content vehicles for us; (b) the failure to develop
    new products which will be purchased by our customers;
    (c) technology changes rendering our products obsolete;
    (d) a reversal of the trend of supplying systems (which
    allows us to increase content per vehicle) instead of
    components; and (e) the failure to find suitable
    acquisition targets or the failure to integrate operations of
    acquired businesses quickly and cost effectively.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to our international
    operations.


 


    We have manufacturing and technical facilities in many regions
    and countries, including North America, Europe, China, India,
    South Korea, Japan, and Brazil and sell our products worldwide.
    For 2006, approximately 60% of our sales were outside North
    America. Consequently, our results could be affected by changes
    in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, trade restrictions or
    prohibitions, import or other charges or taxes, and fluctuations
    in foreign currency exchange rates, changing economic
    conditions, and political instability and disputes. See
    Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    in the Company’s Annual Report.


 



    We may
    not realize sales represented by awarded business.


 


    We base our growth projections, in part, on commitments made by
    our customers. These commitments generally renew yearly during a
    program life cycle. If actual production orders from our
    customers do not approximate such commitments, it could have a
    material adverse effect on our growth and financial performance.


 



    We are
    impacted by the rising cost of providing pension and other post
    employment benefits.


 


    The automotive industry, like other industries, continues to be
    impacted by the rising cost of providing pension and other post
    employment benefits. To partially address this impact, we
    adjusted certain retiree medical plans effective April 1,
    2006 to provide certain participating retirees with continued
    access to group health coverage while reducing our subsidy of
    the program. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements in the Company’s Annual Report.


 



    Certain
    defined benefit pension plans we sponsor are currently
    underfunded.


 


    We sponsor certain defined benefit pension plans worldwide that
    are underfunded and will require cash payments. Additionally, if
    the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet
    our expectations, or if



    
    17



Table of Contents




    other actuarial assumptions are modified, our required
    contributions may be higher than we expect. See Note 12 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the
    Company’s Annual Report.


 



    Negative
    or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our
    results of operations.


 


    Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial
    outlook of our operations in several jurisdictions could lead to
    changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets
    and other tax accruals that could materially and adversely
    affect our results of operations.


 


    Additionally, we are subject to tax audits by governmental
    authorities in the U.S. and numerous
    non-U.S. jurisdictions.
    Because the results of tax audits are inherently uncertain,
    negative or unexpected results from one or more such tax audits
    could adversely affect our results of operations.


 



    We
    rely on sales to several major customers.


 


    Our worldwide sales in 2006 to Ford Motor Company, Volkswagen,
    DaimlerChrysler and General Motors Corporation constituted
    approximately 13%, 13%, 11% and 9%, respectively, of our 2006
    consolidated sales. These four customers constituted
    approximately 46% of our 2006 sales. Credit rating agencies rate
    two of these customers below investment grade. The corresponding
    percentages of sales to these customers for 2005 were 16%, 13%,
    12% and 9%. No other single customer accounted for more that 10%
    of our consolidated sales in 2006 or 2005.


 


    Our 2006 consolidated sales do not include the approximately
    $676 million of sales made by our unconsolidated joint
    ventures. If sales from these unconsolidated joint ventures were
    included in 2006 consolidated sales, our worldwide sales to
    Toyota Motor Corporation and its affiliates would be
    approximately 7% of consolidated sales.


 



    Economic
    distress of suppliers could result in disruption of our
    operations and have a material effect on our
    business.


 


    Some automotive parts suppliers continue to experience commodity
    cost pressures and the effects of industry overcapacity. These
    factors have increased pressure on the industry’s supply
    base, as suppliers cope with higher commodity costs, lower
    production volumes and other challenges. The Company receives
    certain of its raw materials from sole suppliers or a limited
    number of suppliers. The inability of a supplier to fulfill
    supply requirements of the Company could materially affect
    future operating results.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B