Item 1A. Risk Factors.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2008, the Company and its consolidated
    subsidiaries had approximately 13,800 salaried and hourly
    employees (as compared with approximately 17,700 employees
    at December 31, 2007), of which approximately 4,100 were
    U.S. employees. Approximately 13% of the Company’s
    U.S. workforce is unionized. The hourly employees at
    certain of our international facilities are also unionized. The
    Company believes its present relations with employees to be
    satisfactory.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    Our two domestic collective bargaining agreements are for our
    Muncie, Indiana plant and our Ithaca and Cortland, New York
    facilities. The Muncie agreement expires on April 24, 2009.
    The agreement covering the New York facilities expires in
    September 2012.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    Continuing a trend which began in 2004, several raw materials
    used in the Company’s products hit record pricing levels in
    the second quarter of 2008, including steel, aluminum, copper,
    resins and certain alloying elements. This was due to a host of
    supply and demand factors.


 


    Despite these challenges, the Company used a variety of tactics
    in order to limit the impact of inflationary prices and supply
    shortages. The Company formed a global procurement organization
    to accelerate: cost reductions, purchases from lower cost
    regions, risk mitigation efforts, and collaborative buying
    activities. In addition, the Company used long-term contracts,
    cost sharing arrangements, design changes, customer buy
    programs, and hedging instruments to help control costs. The
    Company intends to use similar measures in 2009 and beyond.
    Refer to Note 11, “Financial Instruments” of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of
    this report for information related to the Company’s
    hedging activities.


 


    For 2009, the Company believes that its supplies of raw
    materials and energy are adequate and available from multiple
    sources to support its manufacturing requirements. Manufacturing
    operations for each of the Company’s operating segments are
    dependent upon natural gas, fuel oil, and electricity.


 



    Environmental
    Regulation and Proceedings


 


    The Company and certain of its current and former direct and
    indirect corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have
    been identified by the United States Environmental Protection
    Agency and certain state environmental agencies and private
    parties as potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) at
    various hazardous waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive
    Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
    (“Superfund”) and equivalent state laws and, as such,
    may presently be liable for the cost of
    clean-up and
    other remedial activities at 35 such sites. Responsibility for
    clean-up and
    other remedial activities at a Superfund site is typically
    shared among PRPs based on an allocation formula.


 


    The Company believes that none of these matters, individually or
    in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on its
    results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.
    Generally, this is because either the estimates of the maximum
    potential liability at a site are not large or the liability
    will be shared with other PRPs, although no assurance can be
    given with respect to the ultimate outcome of any such matter.


 


    Based on information available to the Company (which in most
    cases includes: an estimate of allocation of liability among
    PRPs; the probability that other PRPs, many of whom are large,
    solvent public companies, will fully pay the cost apportioned to
    them; currently available information from PRPs
    and/or
    federal or state environmental agencies concerning the scope of
    contamination and estimated remediation and consulting costs;
    remediation alternatives; and estimated legal fees), the Company
    has established an accrual for indicated environmental
    liabilities with a balance at December 31, 2008 of
    $11.9 million. The Company has accrued amounts that do not
    exceed $3.4 million related to any individual site and we
    do not believe that the costs related to any of these sites will
    have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operations, cash flows or financial condition. The Company
    expects to pay out substantially all of the amounts accrued for
    environmental liability over the next three to five years.


 


    In connection with the sale of Kuhlman Electric Corporation, the
    Company agreed to indemnify the buyer and Kuhlman Electric for
    certain environmental liabilities, then unknown to the Company,
    relating to certain operations of Kuhlman Electric that pre-date
    the Company’s 1999 acquisition of Kuhlman Electric. During
    2000, Kuhlman Electric notified the Company that it discovered
    potential environmental contamination at its Crystal Springs,
    Mississippi plant while undertaking an expansion of the plant.
    The Company is continuing to work with the Mississippi
    Department of Environmental Quality and Kuhlman Electric to
    investigate and remediate to the extent necessary, historical
    contamination at the plant and surrounding area. Kuhlman
    Electric and others, including the Company, were sued in
    numerous related lawsuits, in which multiple claimants alleged



    
    11



Table of Contents




    personal injury and property damage. In 2005, the Company and
    other defendants entered into settlements that resolved
    approximately 99% of the then known personal injury and property
    damage claims relating to the alleged environmental
    contamination. Those settlements involved payments by the
    Company of $28.5 million in the second half of 2005 and
    $15.7 million in the first quarter of 2006, in exchange
    for, among other things, dismissal with prejudice of these
    lawsuits.


 


    In December 2007, a lawsuit was filed against Kuhlman Electric
    and others, including the Company, on behalf of approximately
    209 plaintiffs, alleging personal injury relating to the alleged
    environmental contamination. In August 2008, two similar
    lawsuits were filed against Kuhlman Electric and others,
    including the Company, on behalf of approximately 100 plaintiffs
    and 30 plaintiffs, respectively, alleging personal injury
    related to the alleged environmental contamination. Given the
    early stage of the litigation, the Company cannot make any
    predictions as to the outcome, but its current intent is to
    vigorously defend against the suits.


 



    Conditional
    Asset Retirement Obligations


 


    In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47,
    Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
    Obligations — an interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 143 (“FIN 47”), which requires the
    Company to recognize legal obligations to perform asset
    retirements in which the timing
    and/or
    method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may
    or may not be within the control of the entity. Certain
    government regulations require the removal and disposal of
    asbestos from an existing facility at the time the facility
    undergoes major renovations or is demolished. The liability
    exists because the facility will not last forever, but it is
    conditional on future renovations (even if there are no
    immediate plans to remove the materials, which pose no health or
    safety hazard in their current condition). Similarly, government
    regulations require the removal or closure of underground
    storage tanks (“USTs”) and above ground storage tanks
    (“ASTs”) when their use ceases, the disposal of
    polychlorinated biphenyl (“PCB”) transformers and
    capacitors when their use ceases, and the disposal of used
    furnace bricks and liners, and lead-based paint in conjunction
    with facility renovations or demolition. The Company currently
    has 32 manufacturing locations that have been identified as
    containing these items. The fair value to remove and dispose of
    this material has been estimated and recorded at
    $1.4 million as of December 31, 2008 and
    $1.0 million as of December 31, 2007.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Through its Internet website (www.borgwarner.com), the Company
    makes available, free of charge, its Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    all amendments to those reports, and other filings with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after they are filed or furnished. The Company also
    makes the following documents available on its Internet website:
    the Audit Committee Charter; the Compensation Committee Charter;
    the Corporate Governance Committee Charter; the Company’s
    Corporate Governance Guidelines; the Company’s Code of
    Ethical Conduct; and the Company’s Code of Ethics for CEO
    and Senior Financial Officers. You may also obtain a copy of any
    of the foregoing documents, free of charge, if you submit a
    written request to Mary Brevard, Vice President, Investor
    Relations, 3850 Hamlin Road, Auburn Hills, Michigan 48326.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and certain other
    information concerning the executive officers of the Company as
    of February 12, 2009.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name



 



    Age



 


    Position With Company



 





    Timothy M. Manganello



 

 


    59

 


 


    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer





    Robin J. Adams



 

 


    55

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
    Administrative Officer





    Angela J. D’Aversa



 

 


    62

 


 


    Vice President, Human Resources





    Daniel CasaSanta



 

 


    54

 


 


    Vice President





    John J. Gasparovic



 

 


    51

 


 


    Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary





    Anthony D. Hensel



 

 


    50

 


 


    Vice President and Treasurer





    Bernd W. Matthes



 

 


    48

 


 


    Vice President





    Jeffrey L. Obermayer



 

 


    53

 


 


    Vice President and Controller





    Thomas Waldhier



 

 


    46

 


 


    Vice President





    Alfred Weber



 

 


    51

 


 


    Vice President





    Roger J. Wood



 

 


    46

 


 


    Vice President








 


    Mr. Manganello has been Chairman of the Board since June
    2003 and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since February
    2003. He was also President and Chief Operating Officer from
    February 2002 until February 2003. Mr. Manganello is also a
    director of Bemis Company, Inc. and he serves as the Board
    Chairman of Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Detroit branch.


 


    Mr. Adams has been Executive Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer since April
    2004. He was Executive Vice President — Finance and
    Chief Financial Officer of American Axle &
    Manufacturing Holdings Inc. (“American Axle”) from
    July 1999 until April 2004. Mr. Adams also is a member of
    the Supervisory Board of BERU AG.


 


    Mr. CasaSanta has been Vice President of the Company and
    President and General Manager of BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems
    Inc. (“TTS”) since June 2008. He was Vice President
    and General Manager of Thermal Systems from January 2003 until
    June 2008.


 


    Ms. D’Aversa has been Vice President, Human Resources
    since October 2004. She was Acting Vice President, Human
    Resources from April 2004 until September 2004 and Senior
    Director, Management and Organization Development from April
    2004 until September 2004. She was Director
    Management & Organization Development from January
    1995 until March 2004.


 


    Mr. Gasparovic has been Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of the Company since January 2007. After working
    as a private investor from January 2004 until January 2005, he
    was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Federal-Mogul
    Corporation from February 2005 until December 2006. From
    February 2003 until December 2003, he was Executive Vice
    President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Chief
    Compliance Officer and from May 2000 until January 2003 he was
    Vice President, General Counsel (and Secretary since January
    2001) of Roadway Corporation.


 


    Mr. Hensel has been Vice President of the Company since
    July 2002 and Treasurer since January 2005. He was Vice
    President, Business Development from July 2002 until December
    2004. Mr. Hensel also is a member of the Supervisory Board
    of BERU AG.


 


    Mr. Matthes has been Vice President of the Company and
    President and General Manager of BorgWarner Transmission Systems
    Inc. (“Transmission Systems”) since July 2005. He was
    General Manager, Operations Europe for Transmission Systems from
    August 2004 to July 2005. He was Vice President-Operations
    Europe for Transmission Systems from January 2003 to August
    2004. He was General Manager, DualTronic from November 2000
    to July 2005.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    Mr. Obermayer has been Vice President since December 1999
    and Controller since January 2005. He was Vice President and
    Treasurer of the Company from December 1999 to December 2004.


 


    Mr. Waldhier has been Vice President of the Company since
    November 2008 and Chief Executive Officer of BERU since October
    2007. He was a member of the Management Board of SAS
    Autosystemtechnik and Executive Vice President and Chief
    Operating Officer of SAS Automotive from April 2004 to October
    2007. He was Vice President of Faurecia Interior Systems from
    January 2001 to March 2004.


 


    Mr. Weber has been Vice President of the Company since July
    2002. He has been President and General Manager of BorgWarner
    Morse TEC Inc. (“Morse TEC”) since August 2005 and
    BorgWarner Thermal Systems Inc. since January 2003. He was
    President and General Manager of BorgWarner Emissions Systems
    Inc. from July 2002 to July 2005. Mr. Weber also is a
    member of the Supervisory Board of BERU AG.


 


    Mr. Wood has been Vice President of the Company since
    January 2001 and President and General Manager of BorgWarner
    Turbo Systems Inc. and BorgWarner Emissions Systems Inc. since
    August 2005. He was President and General Manager of Morse TEC
    from January 2001 to July 2005.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The following risk factors and other information included in
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    should be considered. The risks and uncertainties described
    below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently
    deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any
    of the following risks occur, our business including its
    financial performance, financial condition, operating results
    and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Our
    industry is cyclical and our results of operations will be
    adversely affected by industry downturns.


 


    Automotive and truck production and sales are cyclical and
    sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors
    including interest rates, consumer credit, and consumer spending
    and preferences. Further economic decline that results in
    further significant reduction in automotive or truck production
    would have a material adverse effect on our sales to original
    equipment manufacturers.


 


    We have initiated steps to realign and resize our production
    capacity and cost structure to meet current and projected
    operational and market requirements. Further significant
    declines in the automotive industry and financial declines and
    restructurings by our significant customers may make it
    necessary to take further restructuring actions and charges.


 



    We are
    dependent on market segments that use our key products and would
    be affected by decreasing demand in those
    segments.


 


    Some of our products, in particular turbochargers, are currently
    used primarily in diesel passenger cars and commercial vehicles.
    Any significant reduction in production in these market segments
    or loss of business in these market segments could have a
    material adverse effect on our sales to original equipment
    manufacturers.


 



    We
    face strong competition.


 


    We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and
    distributors that produce and sell products similar to ours.
    Price, quality and technological innovation are the primary
    elements of competition. Our competitors include vertically
    integrated units of our major original equipment manufacturer
    customers, as well as a large number of independent domestic and
    international suppliers. We are not as large as a number of
    these companies and do not have as many financial or other
    resources. The competitive environment has changed dramatically
    over the past few years as our traditional U.S. original
    equipment manufacturer customers, faced with intense
    international competition, have expanded their worldwide
    sourcing of components. As a result, we have experienced
    competition from suppliers in other parts of the world that
    enjoy economic advantages, such as lower labor costs, lower
    health care costs and, in some cases, export or raw materials
    subsidies. Increased competition could adversely affect our
    businesses.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    We are
    under substantial pressure from original equipment manufacturers
    to reduce the prices of our products.


 


    There is substantial and continuing pressure on original
    equipment manufacturers to reduce costs, including costs of
    products we supply. Although original equipment manufacturers
    have indicated that they will continue to rely on outside
    suppliers, a number of our major original equipment manufacturer
    customers manufacture products for their own uses that directly
    compete with our products. These original equipment
    manufacturers could elect to manufacture such products for their
    own uses in place of the products we currently supply. We
    believe that our ability to develop proprietary new products and
    to control our costs will allow us to remain competitive.
    However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to improve or
    maintain our gross margins on product sales to original
    equipment manufacturers or that the recent trend by original
    equipment manufacturers towards increased outsourcing will
    continue.


 


    Annual price reductions to original equipment manufacturer
    customers appear to have become a permanent feature of our
    business environment. To maintain our profit margins, we seek
    price reductions from our suppliers, improve production
    processes to increase manufacturing efficiency, update product
    designs to reduce costs and develop new products, the benefits
    of which support stable or increased prices. Our ability to pass
    through increased raw material costs to our original equipment
    manufacturer customers is limited, with cost recovery often less
    than 100% and often on a delayed basis. We cannot assure you
    that we will be able to reduce costs in an amount equal to
    annual price reductions and increases in raw material costs.


 



    We are
    sensitive to the effects of our major customers’ labor
    relations.


 


    All three of our primary North American customers, Ford,
    Chrysler and General Motors, have major union contracts with the
    United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers
    of America. Because of domestic original equipment
    manufacturers’ dependence on a single union, we are
    affected by labor difficulties and work stoppages at original
    equipment manufacturers’ facilities. Similarly, a majority
    of our global customers’ operations outside of North
    America are also represented by various unions. Any extended
    work stoppage could have an adverse effect on our business.


 



    Part
    of our labor force is unionized which could subject us to work
    stoppages.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, approximately 13% of our
    U.S. workforce was unionized. Our two domestic collective
    bargaining agreements are for our Muncie, Indiana plant and our
    Ithaca and Cortland, New York facilities. The Muncie agreement
    expires on April 24, 2009. The agreement covering the New
    York facilities expires in September 2012. The hourly employees
    at certain of our international facilities are also unionized.
    While we believe that our relations with our employees are
    satisfactory, a prolonged dispute with our employees could have
    an adverse effect on our business.


 



    We are
    subject to extensive environmental regulations.


 


    Our operations are subject to laws governing, among other
    things, emissions to air, discharges to waters and the
    generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and
    disposal of waste and other materials. We believe that our
    business, operations and activities have been and are being
    operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable
    environmental, health and safety laws. However, the operation of
    automotive parts manufacturing plants entails risks in these
    areas, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur material
    costs or liabilities as a result. Furthermore, through various
    acquisitions over the years, we have acquired a number of
    manufacturing facilities, and we cannot assure you that we will
    not incur materials costs and liabilities relating to activities
    that predate our ownership. In addition, potentially significant
    expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving
    environmental, health and safety laws that may be adopted in the
    future.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    We
    have contingent liabilities related to environmental, product
    warranties, regulatory matters, litigation and other
    claims.


 


    We and certain of our current and former direct and indirect
    corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been
    identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
    and certain state environmental agencies and private parties as
    potentially responsible parties at various hazardous waste
    disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
    Compensation and Liability Act and equivalent state laws. As a
    result, as of December 31, 2008, we may be liable for the
    cost of
    clean-up and
    other remedial activities at 35 of these sites.


 


    We work with outside experts to determine a range of potential
    liability for environmental sites. The ranges for each
    individual site are then aggregated into a loss range for the
    total accrued liability. Management’s estimate of the loss
    range for environmental liability, including conditional asset
    retirement obligations, for 2008 is between $12.4 million
    and $26.1 million. We record an accrual at the most
    probable amount within the range unless one cannot be
    determined; in which case we record the accrual at the low end
    of the range. Based on information available to us, we have
    established an accrual in our financial statements for indicated
    environmental liabilities, including our conditional asset
    retirement obligation under FIN 47, with a total balance of
    $1.4 million at December 31, 2008. We currently expect
    the substantial portion of this amount to be expended over the
    next three to five years.


 


    We provide warranties to our customers for some of our products.
    Under these warranties, we may be required to bear costs and
    expenses for the repair or replacement of these products. We
    cannot assure you that costs and expenses associated with these
    product warranties will not be material, or that those costs
    will not exceed any amounts accrued for such warranties in our
    financial statement. Based upon information available to us, we
    have established an accrual in our financial statements for
    product warranties of $82.1 million at December 31,
    2008.


 


    We are also party to, or have an obligation to defend a party
    to, various legal proceedings, including those described in
    Note 15 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in the Company’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    We are currently, and may in the future become, subject to legal
    proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. These claims
    typically arise in the normal course of business and may
    include, but not be limited to, commercial or contractual
    disputes with our suppliers, intellectual property matters and
    employment claims. There is a possibility that such claims may
    have an adverse impact on our business that is greater than we
    anticipate.


 



    Our
    growth strategy may prove unsuccessful.


 


    We have a stated goal of increasing revenues and operating
    revenues at a rate greater than global vehicle production by
    increasing content per vehicle with innovative new components
    and through select acquisitions. We may not meet our goal
    because of any of the following: (a) the failure to develop
    new products which will be purchased by our customers;
    (b) technology changes rendering our products obsolete;
    (c) a reversal of the trend of supplying systems (which
    allows us to increase content per vehicle) instead of
    components; and (d) the failure to find suitable
    acquisition targets or the failure to integrate operations of
    acquired businesses quickly and cost effectively.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to our international
    operations.


 


    We have manufacturing and technical facilities in many regions
    and countries, including North America, Europe, China, India,
    South Korea, Japan, and Brazil and sell our products worldwide.
    For 2008, approximately 68% of our sales were outside North
    America. Consequently, our results could be affected by changes
    in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, trade restrictions or
    prohibitions, import or other charges or taxes, and fluctuations
    in foreign currency exchange rates, limitations on the
    repatriation of funds changing economic conditions, social
    unrest, political instability and disputes, and international
    terrorism. Compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting
    laws and regulations of various countries is burdensome and
    expensive. See Note 21, “Reporting



    
    16



Table of Contents




    Segments and Related Information” to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in the Company’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    We may
    not realize sales represented by awarded business.


 


    We base our growth projections, in part, on commitments made by
    our customers. These commitments generally renew yearly during a
    program life cycle. If actual production orders from our
    customers do not approximate such commitments, it could
    adversely affect our business.


 



    We are
    impacted by the rising cost of providing pension and other post
    employment benefits.


 


    The automotive industry, like other industries, continues to be
    impacted by the rising cost of providing pension and other post
    employment benefits. To partially address this impact, we
    announced adjustments to certain retiree medical and pension
    plans to be effective January 1, 2009. See Note 12,
    “Retirement Benefit Plans” to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements in the Company’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Certain
    defined benefit pension plans we sponsor are currently
    underfunded.


 


    We sponsor certain defined benefit pension plans worldwide that
    are underfunded and will require cash payments. Additionally, if
    the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet
    our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are
    modified, our required contributions may be higher than we
    expect. See Note 12, “Retirement Benefit Plans”
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company’s
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Negative
    or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial
    outlook of our operations in several jurisdictions could lead to
    changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets
    and other tax accruals that could adversely affect our financial
    performance.


 


    Additionally, we are subject to tax audits by governmental
    authorities in the U.S. and numerous
    non-U.S. jurisdictions.
    Because the results of tax audits are inherently uncertain,
    negative or unexpected results from one or more such tax audits
    could adversely affect our business.


 



    We
    rely on sales to major customers.


 


    We rely on sales to original equipment manufacturers around the
    world. Supply to several of these customers requires significant
    investment by the Company in working capital, plant and
    equipment. Some of our customers are rated by the credit rating
    agencies as below investment grade. The loss of sales to a major
    customer, due to any of a variety of factors including
    non-renewal of purchase orders, the customer’s financial
    hardship or other unforeseen reasons, could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Furthermore, some of our sales are concentrated. Our worldwide
    sales in 2008 to Volkswagen and Ford constituted approximately
    19% and 9%, respectively, of our 2008 consolidated sales.


 



    Suppliers’
    economic distress could result in the disruption of our
    operations and have a material effect on our
    business.


 


    Unfavorable industry conditions such as lower production
    volumes; credit tightness; changes in foreign currencies; raw
    material, commodity, transportation, and energy price
    escalation; drastic changes in consumer preferences; and others
    could adversely affect our supply chain, and sometimes with
    little advanced notice. These conditions could also result in
    increased commercial disputes and supply interruption risks. In
    certain instances, it would be difficult and expensive for us to
    change suppliers that are critical to our business. On occasion,
    we must provide financial support to distressed suppliers or
    take other measures to protect our supply lines. While we have
    taken definite actions to mitigate these factors, we can not
    predict with certainty the potential adverse effects these costs
    might have on our business.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    We
    continue to face highly volatile commodity costs used in the
    production of our products.


 


    The Company uses a variety of commodities (including steel,
    nickel, copper, aluminum, plastic resins, other raw materials
    and energy) and materials purchased in various forms such as
    castings, powder metal, forgings, stampings, and bar stock.
    Increasing commodity costs will have an impact on our results.
    We have sought to alleviate the impact of increasing costs by
    selectively hedging certain commodity exposures or by including
    a material pass-through provision in our customer contracts
    wherever possible. Customers frequently challenge these
    contractual provisions and rarely pay the full cost of any
    materials increases. The continuation of this practice would
    adversely affect our business.


 


    From time to time, commodity prices may also fall rapidly. When
    this happens, suppliers may withdraw capacity from the market
    until prices improve which may cause periodic supply
    interruptions. The same may be true of our transportation
    carriers and energy providers.


 



    We
    could be adversely affected by supply shortages of components
    from our suppliers.


 


    In an effort to manage and reduce the cost of purchased goods
    and services, we have been rationalizing our supply base. As a
    result, we are dependent on fewer sources of supply for certain
    components used in the manufacture of our products. The Company
    selects suppliers based on total value (including total landed
    price, quality, delivery, and technology), taking into
    consideration their production capacities and financial
    condition. We expect that they will deliver to our stated
    written expectations.


 


    However, there can be no assurance that capacity limitations,
    labor unrest, weather emergencies, commercial disputes,
    government actions, riots, wars, sabotage, non-conforming parts,
    acts of terrorism, “Acts of God”, or other problems
    experienced by our suppliers will not result in occasional
    shortages or delays in their supply of components to us. If we
    were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of
    critical components from any of our suppliers and could not
    procure the components from other sources, we would be unable to
    meet the production schedules for some of our key products and
    could miss customer delivery expectations. This would adversely
    affect our customer relations and business.


 



    A
    downgrade in the ratings of our debt could restrict our ability
    to access the debt capital markets.


 


    Changes in the ratings that rating agencies assign to our debt
    may ultimately impact our access to the debt capital markets and
    the costs we incur to borrow funds. If ratings for our debt fall
    below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets
    would become restricted. The tightening in the credit markets
    and the low level of liquidity in many financial markets due to
    the current turmoil in the financial and banking industries
    could also affect our access to the debt capital markets. In the
    event the Company is unable to access the debt capital markets,
    we would have the ability to draw on our $600 million
    revolving credit facility; however, this agreement is scheduled
    to expire July 22, 2009.


 


    Additionally, our revolving credit agreement includes an
    increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are
    downgraded. Further, an increase in the level of our
    indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our
    vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry
    conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional
    financing.


 



    Conditions
    in the automotive industry may adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Our financial performance depends on conditions in the global
    automotive industry. Ford Motor Company, General Motors
    Corporation and Chrysler LLP (collectively “the Detroit
    3”) have experienced declining market shares and are
    burdened with significant structural costs that have affected
    their profitability and labor relations and may ultimately
    result in severe financial difficulty, including possible
    bankruptcy. If the Detroit 3 cannot fund their operations or if
    major customers reach similar levels of financial distress we
    may incur significant write-offs of accounts receivable, incur
    impairment charges or require additional restructuring actions
    beyond those already taken. Automakers across Europe are also
    experiencing difficulties from a weakened economy and tightening
    credit markets. If our customers reduce their orders to us, it
    would adversely affect our results of operations. A prolonged
    downturn in the North American or European automotive industries
    or a significant



    
    18



Table of Contents




    product mix shift due to consumer demand could require us to
    shut down plants or incur impairment charges. Continued
    uncertainty relating to the financial condition of the Detroit 3
    and other automakers would have a negative impact on our
    business.


 



    We are
    subject to possible insolvency of financial
    counterparties.


 


    The Company engages in numerous financial transactions and
    contracts including insurance policies, letters of credit,
    credit line agreements, financial derivatives, and investment
    management agreements involving various counterparties. The
    Company is subject to the risk that one or more of these
    counterparties may become insolvent and therefore be unable to
    discharge its obligations under such contracts.


 



    We are
    subject to possible insolvency of outsourced service
    providers.


 


    The Company relies on third party service providers for
    administration of workers’ compensation claims, health care
    benefits, pension benefits, stockholder and bondholder
    registration and similar services. These service providers
    contribute to the efficient conduct of the Company’s
    business, so the Company could be adversely affected in the
    event of insolvency of one or more of these service providers.


 



    A
    variety of other factors could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Any of the following could materially and adversely affect our
    business: the loss of or changes in supply contracts or sourcing
    strategies of our major customers or suppliers; start—up
    expenses associated with new vehicle programs or delays or
    cancellation of such programs, underutilization of our
    manufacturing facilities, which can be dependent on a single
    product line or customer; inability to recover engineering and
    tooling costs; market and financial consequences of recalls that
    may be required on products we supplied; delays or difficulties
    in new product development; the possible introduction of similar
    or superior technologies by others; and global overcapacity and
    vehicle platform proliferation.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B