. Risk Factors.Current and potential stockholders should consider carefully the risk factors described below. Any of these factors, many of which are beyond our control, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and stock price.Failure to achieve success in our business strategy could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.As more fully described in Part I, Item 1 “Business,” of this Form 10-K, our business strategy is designed to build on our portfolio of software and services to meet current and next-generation market opportunities. The success of this strategy could be affected by many of the risk factors discussed in this Form 10-K and also by our ability to:•Ensure that any new offerings address the needs of a rapidly changing market while not adversely affecting the demand for our traditional products or our profitability to an extent greater than anticipated;•Enable our sales force to accelerate growth of sales to new customers and expand sales with existing customers, including sales outside of our renewal cycle and to a broadening set of purchasers outside of traditional information technology operations. This growth needs to be at levels sufficient to offset any decline in revenue and/or sales in our Mainframe Solutions segment and in certain mature product lines in our Enterprise Solutions segment:▪in our Platinum customer accounts where we already have strong relationships;▪in our Named customer accounts where a competitor already has an established relationship; and▪in our Growth/Partners customer accounts where we currently do not have a strong presence and where we may have a dependence on unfamiliar distribution routes and offerings of a type not previously provided by us;11Table of Contents•Effectively manage the strategic shift in our business model to develop more easily installed software, provide additional SaaS offerings and refocus our professional services and education engagements on those engagements that are connected to new product sales, without affecting our financial performance to an extent greater than anticipated; and•Effectively manage our pricing and other go-to-market strategies, as well as improve the CA Technologies brand, technology and innovation awareness in the marketplace.Failure to achieve success with this strategy could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Failure to innovate or adapt to technological changes and introduce new software products and services in a timely manner could materially adversely affect our business.If we fail to keep pace with, or in certain cases lead, technological change in our industry, that failure could materially adversely affect our business. We operate in a highly competitive industry characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, and changes in customer requirements and delivery methods. During the past several years, many new technological advancements and competing products entered the marketplace. The enterprise solutions markets in which we operate (including non-mainframe platforms from physical to virtual and cloud) are far more crowded and competitive than our traditional mainframe systems management markets. Our ability to compete effectively and our growth prospects for all of our products, including those associated with our business strategy, depend upon many factors, including the success of our existing enterprise solutions, the timely introduction and success of future software products and services, including those that we acquire or develop, and related delivery methods, our ability to provide, and success in providing, timely and adequate customer support and the ability of our products to perform well with existing and future leading databases and other platforms supported by our products that address customer needs and are accepted by the market. We have experienced long development cycles and product delays in the past, particularly with some of our enterprise solutions, and even under the Agile development methodology, we may experience delays in the future. In addition, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant research and development costs as we introduce new products and integrate products into solution sets. If there are delays in new product introduction or solution set integration, or if there is less-than-anticipated market acceptance of these new products or solution sets, we will have invested substantial resources without realizing adequate revenues in return, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.We are subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing, and we expect to face increased competition in the future, which could either diminish demand for or inhibit growth of our products and, therefore, reduce our sales, revenue and market presence.The markets for our products are intensely competitive, and we expect product and service offerings and pricing competition to increase. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of customers in any particular market niche, larger technical staffs, established relationships with hardware vendors, or greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Furthermore, our business strategy is predicated upon our ability to develop and acquire products and services that address customer needs and are accepted by the market better than those of our competitors. We also face competition from numerous smaller companies that specialize in specific aspects of the highly fragmented software industry, and from shareware or open source authors that may develop competing products. In addition, new companies enter the market on a frequent and regular basis, offering products that compete with those offered by us. Moreover, certain customers historically have developed their own products that compete with those offered by us. The competition may affect our ability to attract and retain the technical skills needed to provide services to our customers, forcing us to become more reliant on delivery of services through third parties. This, in turn, could increase operating costs and decrease our revenue, profitability and cash flow. Additionally, competition from any of these sources could result in price reductions or displacement of our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Our competitors include large vendors of hardware and operating system software and service providers. The widespread inclusion of products that perform the same or similar functions as our products bundled within computer hardware or other companies’ software products, or services similar to those provided by us, could reduce the perceived need for our products and services, or render our products obsolete and unmarketable. Furthermore, even if these incorporated products are inferior or more limited than our products, customers may elect to accept the incorporated products rather than purchasing our products. In addition, the software industry is currently undergoing consolidation as software companies seek to offer more extensive suites and broader arrays of software products and services, as well as integrated software and hardware solutions. This consolidation may adversely affect our competitive position, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Refer to Part I, Item 1, “Business - Competition,” of this Form 10-K for additional information.12Table of ContentsIf our products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments, platforms, or third party products, we could lose customers and the demand for our products and services could decrease, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.The largest suppliers of systems and computing software are, in most cases, the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems used by most of our customers, particularly in the mainframe space. Historically, these companies have from time to time modified or introduced new operating systems, systems software and computer hardware. In the future, new products from these companies could require substantial modification of our products to maintain compatibility with these companies’ hardware or software. Although we have to date been able to adapt our products and our business to changes introduced by hardware manufacturers and system software developers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Further, our solutions interact with a variety of software and hardware developed by third parties and we may lose access to third-party code and specifications for the development of code, which could materially adversely affect our ability to develop software compatible with third-party software products in the future. Some software providers and hardware manufacturers, including some of the largest vendors, have a policy of restricting the use or availability of their code or technical documentation for some of their operating systems, applications, or hardware. To date, this policy has not had a material effect on us. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may, in the future, result in higher research and development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and modification of our existing products and the development of new products. Any additional restrictions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.In addition, the emergence of cloud computing means that many of our enterprise solutions customers are themselves undergoing a radical shift in the way they deliver IT services to their businesses. The shift towards delivering infrastructure and SaaS from the cloud may negatively affect our ability to sell IT management solutions to our traditional enterprise solutions customers. While we believe we adequately understand this risk and are taking steps in our product and business strategy to plan for it, failure to adapt our products, solutions, delivery models and sales approaches to effectively plan for cloud computing may adversely affect our business. If we are not successful in anticipating the rate of market change towards the cloud computing paradigm and evolving with it by delivering solutions for IT management in the cloud computing environment, customers may forgo the use of our products in favor of those with comparable functionality delivered via the cloud, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Given the global nature of our business, economic factors or political events beyond our control and other business and legal risks associated with non-U.S. operations can affect our business in unpredictable ways.International revenue has historically represented a significant percentage of our total worldwide revenue. Success in selling and developing our products outside the United States will depend on a variety of factors in various non-U.S. locations, including:•Developing and executing an effective go-to-market strategy in various locations;•Foreign exchange rates;•Local economic conditions;•Restrictive local laws regarding the transfer of funds from, or the conversion of currencies in, certain countries;•Political stability and acts of terrorism;•Workforce reorganizations in various locations, including global reorganizations of sales, research and development, technical services, finance, human resources and facilities functions;•Effectively staffing key managerial and technical positions;•Successfully localizing software products for a significant number of international markets;•Restrictive employment regulation;•Trade restrictions such as tariffs, duties, taxes or other controls;•International intellectual property laws, which may be more restrictive or may offer lower levels of protection than U.S. law; and•Compliance by us and our partners (including unaffiliated third-party partners) with differing, changing and potentially inconsistent local laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple international jurisdictions, as well as compliance with U.S. laws and regulations where applicable in these international locations, such as anti-corruption, competition, anti-money laundering, export control and data privacy laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the UK Bribery Act of 2010, the potential impact of recent EU activity regarding data transfer restrictions as well as the impending General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and Network and Information Security (NIS) Directive in the EU, trade controls and sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions.13Table of ContentsIn addition to affecting our success, negative effects of any of these factors may increase the cost of doing business internationally. The cost of our international operations may be increased further with respect to products and lines of business acquired in connection with inorganic growth, as the efforts undertaken by the target companies with respect to these factors may be less robust or effective than the efforts we have undertaken with respect to these factors. Any such rise in costs could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions or cause us to change or limit our business practices. We have implemented policies, procedures and controls designed to achieve compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but our corporate policies, process and controls may not prevent or detect all potential breaches of law or other governance practices. We occasionally identify or are apprised of information or allegations that certain employees, affiliates, agents or associated persons may have violated these laws. Any violation of these laws could lead to substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, litigation, loss of operating licenses or permits and other collateral consequences. An unfavorable development regarding any of the foregoing factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Failure to expand our partner programs and sales of our solutions by our partners may result in lost sales opportunities, increases in expenses and a weakening of our market position.In addition to our direct sales efforts, we sell our products and solutions through various partner channels, which include resellers, global service providers, global system integrators, managed service providers and global technology partners. Through our various global partner programs, we provide incentives, training, enablement and marketing investments so that our partners have the capability and expertise to sell and deliver these solutions to their customers. We also leverage global systems integrators and global technology partners to assist with and influence the sales of solutions to our Platinum and Named customers and we plan on utilizing resellers to better penetrate the Growth/Partners customer market. The failure to expand these partner programs and investments, or the failure of our partners to maintain or increase their sales of our products, could adversely affect our overall business success, including our market position. This could result in lost incremental sales opportunities that partners provide and, as a result, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Our business may suffer if we are not able to retain and attract qualified professionals, including key managerial, technical, marketing and sales professionals.We operate in a business where there is intense competition for experienced personnel in all of our global markets. We depend on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, develop and retain qualified and effective professionals and to attract and retain talent needed to execute our business strategy. We also depend on our ability to perform these tasks with respect to professionals from acquired companies, which ability may be negatively impacted by our efforts to integrate and rationalize the products and lines of business we have acquired. Our ability to do so depends on numerous factors, including factors that we cannot control, such as competition and conditions in the local employment markets in which we operate. Effective succession planning is also important for our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfers of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Our success depends in a large part on the continued contribution of our senior management and other key employees. A loss of a significant number of skilled managerial, technical, marketing or other professionals could have a negative effect on the quality of our products. A loss of a significant number of experienced and effective sales professionals could result in fewer sales of our products. Our failure to retain qualified employees in these categories could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.General economic conditions and credit constraints, or unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region, business or industry sector, may lead our customers to delay or forgo technology investments and could have other impacts, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Our products are designed to improve the productivity and efficiency of our customers’ information processing resources. However, a general slowdown in the global economy, or in a particular region (such as Europe), or disruption in a business or industry sector (such as the financial services sector), or tightening of credit markets, could cause customers to: have difficulty accessing credit sources; delay contractual payments; or delay or forgo decisions to (i) license new products (particularly with respect to discretionary spending for software), (ii) upgrade their existing environments or (iii) purchase services. Any such impacts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.A general slowdown in the global economy may also materially affect the global banking system, including individual institutions as well as a particular business or industry sector, which could cause consolidations or failures in such a sector. Approximately one third of our revenue is derived from arrangements with financial institutions (i.e., banking, brokerage and insurance companies). In addition, we derive material portions of our revenue from other industries such as telecommunications and health care that rely on transaction processing. The majority of these arrangements are for the renewal of mainframe solutions capacity and maintenance associated with transactions processed by our customers. While we cannot predict what impact there may be on our business from changes to the financial industry, telecommunications or health care sectors, or the impact on our business from the economy in general, to date the impact has not been material to our balance sheet, results of operations or cash flow. 14Table of ContentsAny of these events could affect the manner in which we are able to conduct business, including within a particular industry sector or market and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.We may encounter difficulties in successfully integrating companies and products that we have acquired or may acquire into our existing business, which could materially adversely affect our infrastructure, market presence, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.In the past we have acquired, and in the future we expect to acquire, complementary companies, products, services and technologies through a number of different vehicles, including through mergers, asset acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, strategic alliances and equity investments. Additionally, we expect to acquire technology and software that are consistent with our business strategy. The risks we may encounter include:•We may find that the acquired company or assets do not improve our financial and strategic position as planned;•We may have difficulty integrating the operations, facilities, personnel and commission plans of the acquired business;•We may have difficulty forecasting or reporting results subsequent to acquisitions;•We may have difficulty retaining the skills needed to further market, sell or provide services on the acquired products in a manner that will be accepted by the market;•We may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies or products into our existing product lines;•We may have product liability, customer liability or intellectual property liability associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products;•Our ongoing business may be disrupted by transition or integration issues and our management’s attention may be diverted from other business initiatives;•We may be unable to obtain timely approvals from governmental authorities under applicable competition and antitrust laws;•We may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;•Our relationships with current and new employees, customers and distributors could be impaired;•An acquisition may result in increased litigation risk, including litigation from terminated employees or third parties;•Our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company’s product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices, internal control deficiencies including material weaknesses, product architecture, legal and tax contingencies, compliance with differing, changing and potentially inconsistent local laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple international jurisdictions, as well as compliance with U.S. laws and regulations where applicable in these international locations, and other matters; and•We may not be able to realize the benefits of recognized goodwill and intangible assets and this may result in the potential impairment of these assets.These risks can be heightened during periods when we seek to integrate multiple acquisitions at the same time or in a relatively short period of time. These factors could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow, particularly in the case of a large acquisition or number of acquisitions. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options, to pay for acquisitions or to retain employees, existing stockholders’ interests may be diluted and income per share may decrease.Our sales to government clients subject us to risks, including lack of fiscal funding approval, renegotiation or termination at the discretion of the government, as well as audits and investigations, which could result in litigation, penalties and sanctions including early termination, suspension and debarment.Approximately 7% of our total revenue backlog at March 31, 2016 is associated with multi-year contracts signed with the U.S. federal government and other U.S. state and local government agencies. These contracts are generally subject to annual fiscal funding approval and may be renegotiated or terminated at the discretion of the government. Termination, renegotiation or the lack of funding approval for a contract could adversely affect our sales, revenue and reputation. Additionally, our government contracts are generally subject to certain requirements, some of which are generally not present in commercial contracts and/or may be complex, as well as to audits and investigations. Failure to meet contractual requirements could result in various civil and criminal actions and penalties, and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Refer to Note 11, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about litigation and related matters in this area.15Table of ContentsOur data center, network, as well as our software products, and the IT environments of our vendors and customers are subject to hacking or other cybersecurity threats, which could result in a loss or misuse of proprietary, personally identifiable and confidential information and/or harm to our customer relationships and the market perception of the effectiveness of our products.Given that some of our products are intended to manage and secure IT infrastructures and environments, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our products. Use of open source code or other third-party software in our products and infrastructure could also bring increased cybersecurity risks. This risk can be heightened with acquired products, which may not have gone through the same testing and quality control measures as our organically developed products. Experienced computer programmers or hackers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our data centers and IT environments. Others, including employees or vendors, may also intentionally or unintentionally provide unauthorized access to our IT environments or to our customers’ IT environments. These hackers or others may misappropriate proprietary, personally identifiable and confidential information of the Company, our customers, our employees or our business partners or other individuals or cause interruptions of our or our customers’ IT operations, services and businesses. This may cause contractual disputes and may negatively affect the market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our reputation even if the unauthorized access is not attributable to our products or personnel. Our SaaS business includes the hosting of customer data, including large amounts of sensitive information, and uses third-party data centers that may also be subject to hacking incidents. If our SaaS business increases substantially, whether due to growth of our existing SaaS business or if we acquire a SaaS business, such as in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, our exposure to hacking incidents could increase due to the nature of the increase in the volume of SaaS business activity and the potential increase in the number of SaaS technology platforms we maintain. Although we continually seek to improve our countermeasures to prevent and detect such incidents, we may be unable to anticipate these problems and such incidents could require significant expenditures of our capital and diversion of our resources from development activities. Additionally, these efforts by hackers or others could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our product licensing, or modification of our software, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers. If these efforts are successful and a third party obtains unauthorized access to our or our customers’ IT environments, our business operations, and those of our customers, could be adversely affected, losses or theft of data could occur, our reputation and future sales could be harmed, governmental regulatory action or private or governmental litigation could be commenced against us and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be materially adversely affected.If we do not adequately manage, evolve and protect our information systems, infrastructure and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed.We rely on our information systems, including our enterprise resource planning software, and information systems of third parties for managing the financial information of our business. Any disruption in our information systems and those of the third parties upon whom we rely could have a significant impact on our business. In addition, we continuously work to enhance our information systems and infrastructure and integrate those of acquired companies. The implementation of these types of enhancements and the integration with information systems of acquired companies is frequently disruptive to the underlying business, which may especially be the case for us due to the size and complexity of our business. Additionally, delays in adapting our information systems to address new business models, such as SaaS, could limit the success or result in the failure of those initiatives and impair the effectiveness of our internal controls.Although we have implemented a disaster recovery program, our system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities, including scenarios associated with acquired companies. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues, as well as to manage and protect our infrastructure, could result in the diversion of management’s attention and resources, adversely affect our ability to manage our business, including our SaaS business, file our quarterly or annual reports with the SEC on a timely and accurate basis, and to meet our obligations to our customers, and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.Failure to renew license agreement transactions on a satisfactory basis could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Many of our customers have multi-year enterprise license agreements, some of which may involve substantial aggregate fee amounts. These customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions and renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the level of customer satisfaction with our solutions or customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions as compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, if at all. The failure to renew those transactions in the future, or to replace those enterprise license agreements with renewal transactions of similar scope, on terms that are commercially attractive to us, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.16Table of ContentsFluctuations in foreign exchange rates could result in losses.Our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars. Most of the revenue and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in local currencies. Given that cash is typically received over an extended period of time for many of our license agreements and given that a substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside of the United States, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates against the U.S. dollar could result in substantial changes in reported revenues and operating results due to the foreign exchange impact upon translation of these transactions into U.S. dollars.In the normal course of business, we employ various hedging strategies to partially mitigate these risks, including the use of derivative instruments. These strategies may not be effective in protecting us against the effects of fluctuations from movements in foreign exchange rates. Fluctuations of the foreign exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Discovery of errors or omissions in our software products could materially adversely affect our revenue and earnings and subject us to costly and time consuming product liability claims.The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors or omissions will not be found in current versions, new versions, documentation or enhancements of our software products after commencement of commercial shipments. This risk can be heightened with acquired products which may not have gone through the same testing and quality control measures as our organically developed products (our organically developed products and acquired products collectively, our Products). If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our Products or require significant amounts of customer support, our operating margins could be adversely affected. We could also face possible claims and higher development costs if our Products contain errors that we have not detected or if our Products otherwise fail to meet our customers’ expectations. Significant technical challenges also arise with our Products because our customers license and deploy our Products across a variety of computer platforms and integrate them with a number of third party software applications and databases. These combinations increase our risk further because, in the event of a system-wide failure, it may be difficult to determine which product is at fault. As a result, we may be harmed by the failure of another supplier’s products. As a result of the foregoing, we could experience:•Loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share;•Loss of customers, including the inability to obtain repeat business with existing key customers;•Damage to our reputation;•Failure to achieve market acceptance;•Diversion of development resources;•Remediation efforts that may be required;•Increased service and warranty costs;•Legal actions by customers or government authorities against us that, whether or not successful, could be costly, distracting and time-consuming;•Increased insurance costs; and•Failure to successfully complete service or customer support engagements for product installations, implementations and integrations.Consequently, the discovery of errors in our Products after delivery could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Failure to protect our intellectual property rights and source code would weaken our competitive position.Our success is highly dependent upon our proprietary technology, including our software and our source code for that software, both organically developed and acquired. Failure to protect such technology could lead to the loss of valuable assets and our competitive advantage. We protect our proprietary information through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, policing unauthorized use or copying of our proprietary information is difficult. Unauthorized use or copying occurs from time to time and litigation to enforce intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and diversion of resources. Moreover, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not afford the same degree of protection to our proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States. For example, for some of our products, we rely on “shrink-wrap” or “click-on” licenses, which may be unenforceable in whole or in part in some jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition, patents we have obtained may be circumvented, challenged, invalidated or designed around by other companies. Furthermore, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions can be difficult to enforce and, even if successfully enforced, may not have effective remedies available to ameliorate unauthorized disclosure of our intellectual property. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property for these or other reasons, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. Refer to Part I, Item 1, “Business - Intellectual Property,” of this Form 10-K for additional information.17Table of ContentsCertain software that we use in our products is licensed from third parties and, for that reason, may not be available to us in the future, which has the potential to delay product development and production or cause us to incur additional expense, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Some of our solutions contain software licensed from third parties. Some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us or allow our products to remain competitive. The loss of these licenses or the inability to maintain any of them on commercially acceptable terms could delay development of future products or the enhancement of existing products. We may also choose to pay a premium price for such a license in certain circumstances where the benefit of continuity of the licensed product would outweigh the premium cost of the license. The unavailability of these licenses or the necessity of agreeing to commercially unreasonable terms for such licenses could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Certain software we use is from open source code sources, which, under certain circumstances, may lead to unintended consequences and, therefore, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Some of our products, both organically developed and acquired, contain software from open source code sources. The use of such open source code may subject us to certain conditions, including the obligation to offer our products that use open source code for no cost or to make the proprietary source code of those products publicly available. Further, although some open source vendors provide warranty and support agreements in conjunction with the use of their open source software, it is common for many open source software authors to make their open source software available “as-is” with no warranty, indemnity or support. We monitor our use of such open source code to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. However, the use of such open source code may ultimately subject some of our products to unintended conditions, which could require us to take remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts and, therefore, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Third parties could claim that our products infringe or contribute to the infringement of their intellectual property rights or that we owe royalty payments to them, which could result in significant litigation expense or settlement with unfavorable terms, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.From time to time, third parties have claimed and may claim that our products, both organically developed and acquired, infringe various forms of their intellectual property or that we owe royalty payments to them. Investigation of these claims can be expensive and could affect development, marketing or shipment of our products. As the number of software patents issued increases, it is likely that additional claims will be asserted. Defending against such claims is time consuming and could result in significant litigation expense, adverse judgments or settlement on unfavorable terms, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.The number, terms and duration of our license agreements, as well as the timing of orders from our customers and channel partners, may cause fluctuations in some of our key financial metrics, which may affect our quarterly financial results.Historically, a substantial portion of our license agreements are executed in the last month of a quarter and the number of contracts executed during a given quarter can vary substantially. In addition, it is characteristic of our industry when dealing with enterprise customers to experience long sales cycles, which for us is driven in part by the varying terms and conditions of our software contracts. These factors can make it difficult for us to predict sales and cash flow on a quarterly basis. Any failure or delay in executing new or renewed license agreements in a given quarter could cause declines in some of our key financial metrics (e.g., revenue or cash flow), and, accordingly, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.We may encounter events or circumstances that would require us to record an impairment charge relating to our goodwill or capitalized software and other intangible assets balances.Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to evaluate our capitalized software and other intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually, and more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In future periods, we may be subject to factors that may constitute a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill exceeds fair value or our capitalized software and other intangible assets may not be recoverable. These changes may consist of, but are not limited to, declines in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. Any of these factors, or others, could require us to record a significant non-cash impairment charge in our financial statements during a period. Acquisitions can result in additional goodwill or capitalized software and other intangible assets balances subject to impairment risk. If we determine that a significant impairment of our goodwill or our capitalized software and other intangible assets has occurred in any of our operating segments, this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.18Table of ContentsPotential tax liabilities may materially adversely affect our results.We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, we engage in many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from that which is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Additional tax assessments resulting from audit, litigation or changes in tax laws may result in increased tax provisions or payments or possibly criminal claims, penalties or fines which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow in the period or periods in which that determination is made. Refer to Note 15, “Income Taxes,” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our tax matters.Changes in market conditions or our credit ratings could increase our interest costs and adversely affect the cost of refinancing our debt and our ability to refinance our debt, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.At March 31, 2016 and 2015, we had $1,953 million and $1,257 million, respectively, of debt outstanding, consisting mostly of unsecured senior note obligations. Refer to Note 8, “Debt,” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the payment schedule of our long-term debt obligations. Our senior unsecured notes are rated by Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings, and Standard and Poor’s. These agencies or any other credit rating agency could downgrade or take other negative action with respect to our credit ratings in the future. If our credit ratings were downgraded or other negative action is taken, or market conditions change, we could be required to, among other things, pay additional interest on outstanding borrowings under our principal revolving credit agreement and term loan agreement. Any downgrades or changes in market conditions could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing.We expect that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided from operations and our bank credit facilities will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. However, our failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt becomes due, renew credit lines prior to their expiration or refinance our existing debt on satisfactory terms could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.Changes in generally accepted accounting principles may materially adversely affect our reported results of operation or financial condition.From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issues new accounting principles. Refer to Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies,” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about new accounting pronouncements, including Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 regarding revenue recognition. Changes to existing rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our business practices, accounting policies and systems. Such changes could materially adversely affect our reported financial results.Failure by us to effectively execute on our announced workforce reductions, workforce rebalancing and facilities consolidations could result in total costs that are greater than expected or revenues that are less than anticipated.In recent years, we have announced workforce reductions, workforce rebalancing, global facilities consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives to reallocate resources of our business as part of our strategy. We may have further workforce reductions, workforce rebalancing, global facilities consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives in the future. Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include delays in implementation, changes in plans that increase or decrease the number of employees affected, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flow.We have outsourced various functions to third parties. These arrangements may not be successful or fully secure, which could result in increased costs or an increased chance of a cybersecurity breach, which could adversely affect customer service levels.We have outsourced various functions to third parties, including certain product development and administrative functions and hosting for our SaaS business, and we may outsource additional functions to third parties in the future. These outsourced functions may involve confidential and/or personally identifiable information. We rely on these third parties to provide outsourced services on a timely and effective basis and to adequately address their own cybersecurity threats. Although we periodically monitor the performance of these third parties and maintain contingency plans in case the third parties are unable to perform as agreed, we do not ultimately control the performance of these third parties. The failure of third-party outsourcing partners or vendors to perform as expected could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations or our customers’ operations, including the potential loss of personally identifiable information of our customers, employees and business partners and could subject us to legal action by government authorities or private parties, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.19Table of ContentsItem 1B