Item 1A and elsewhere in this
    Form 10-K.
    Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or
    should our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary
    materially from those described in this
    Form 10-K
    as anticipated, believed, estimated, or expected. We do not
    intend to update these forward-looking statements.


 


    The products and services mentioned in this
    Form 10-K
    are used for identification purposes only and may be protected
    by trademarks, trade names, services marks
    and/or other
    intellectual property rights of the Company
    and/or other
    parties in the United States
    and/or other
    jurisdictions. The absence of a specific attribution in
    connection with any such mark does not constitute a waiver of
    any such right.


 


    This
    Form 10-K
    also contains references to other company, brand, and product
    names. These company, brand, and product names are used herein
    for identification purposes only and may be the trademarks of
    their respective owners. We disclaim any responsibility for
    specifying which marks are owned by which companies or which
    organizations.


 



    Part I
    


 



    ITEM 1.
    BUSINESS.
    


 



    (a) General
    Development of Business






    Overview
    





    CA, Inc. is one of the world’s largest independent
    providers of information technology (IT) management software. We
    develop, market, deliver and license software products and
    services that allow organizations to run, manage and automate
    aspects of their computing environments, or IT infrastructures,
    which are critical to their business.


 


    The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1974, began
    operations in 1976, and completed an initial public offering of
    common stock in December 1981. Our common stock is traded on the
    New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CA”.


 


    We are considered an Independent Software Vendor (ISV). ISVs
    develop and license software products that can increase the
    efficiency of computer hardware platforms or operating systems
    sold by other vendors.


 


    Our software helps our customers dynamically manage the people,
    processes, computers, networks and the range of technologies
    that make up their IT infrastructure. We have a broad portfolio
    of software products and services that span the areas of
    infrastructure management, security management, storage
    management and business service optimization.


 



    Business
    Developments and Highlights
    





    In April 2007, we held CA World with the theme of
    “Innovation in the Real World” where we addressed the
    challenges facing the IT industry and showcased the evolution
    and delivery of our Enterprise IT Management (EITM) strategy for
    transforming the way businesses manage IT. We delivered this
    message to more than 5,000 customers and partners.


 


    In fiscal year 2007, we took the following actions to support
    our business:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We continued pursuing our multi-year, four-part growth strategy
    to make our EITM vision real for our customers, enable a
    competitive cost structure for us, and move our Company from
    transaction-oriented sales to a relationship driven model with a
    focus on the largest enterprise customers. Please refer to
    “— (c) Narrative Description of the
    Business — Growth Strategy” below for more
    information.






    
    1
    



 



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We completed the acquisitions of Cendura Corporation (Cendura)
    in September 2006, XOsoft, Inc. (XOsoft) in July 2006, MDY Group
    International, Inc. (MDY) in June 2006 and Cybermation, Inc.
    (Cybermation) in May 2006.



 


     
        • 

    
    In February 2007, we announced that CA Anti-Virus 2007, for home
    and home office, has received Checkmark certification from West
    Coast Labs on the Windows Vista Home Premium platform, meeting
    independent criteria for protection against viruses. This was
    the first product of its kind to be independently certified on
    the new Windows Vista operating system.



 


     
        • 

    
    In February 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors
    amended our By-laws to implement a majority voting standard. The
    new standard provides that a director nominee will be elected
    only if the number of votes cast “for” exceeds the
    number of votes “against” his or her election.
    Previously, directors were elected under a plurality vote
    standard, which mandated that nominees receiving the most votes
    would be elected regardless of whether those votes constituted a
    majority of the shares voted at the meeting.



 


     
        • 

    
    In December 2006, we announced the latest release of our
    Identity and Access Management (IAM) solution that helps
    organizations minimize risk while reducing the cost of their IT
    operations. Our IAM solution unifies and simplifies the
    management of enterprise-wide security through automated and
    centralized policy management.



 


     
        • 

    
    In November 2006, we announced Unicenter Advanced Systems
    Management (Unicenter ASM) r11.1, a platform-agnostic solution
    that provides centralized management for virtualized and
    clustered server environments — enabling customers to
    continuously assess, manage and optimize system resources to
    ensure service availability and reliability.



 


     
        • 

    
    In October 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors
    adopted a new Stockholder Protection Rights Plan (the Rights
    Plan) which replaced our existing rights plan when it expired on
    November 30, 2006. We will ask our stockholders to vote on
    the Rights Plan at our annual meeting of stockholders in August
    2007.



 


     
        • 

    
    In September 2006, we announced a new release of Unicenter
    Network and Systems Management (Unicenter NSM) that offers a
    management database built on Microsoft SQL Server and eases
    integration of CA and third-party management
    solutions — enabling customers to optimize service
    availability while protecting their existing IT investments.



 


     
        • 

    
    In September 2006, we completed the tender offer for the
    purchase of 41,225,515 shares at a purchase price of
    $24.00 per share, for a total price of approximately
    $989 million, excluding bank, legal and other associated
    charges. Upon completion of the tender offer, we retired all of
    the shares that were repurchased.



 


     
        • 

    
    In August 2006, we completed a sale-leaseback of our corporate
    headquarters located in Islandia, New York. The transaction
    resulted in net proceeds of approximately $201 million and
    a deferred gain of approximately $7 million, which we
    amortize as a reduction to rent expense on a straight-line basis
    over the initial lease term of fifteen years.



 


     
        • 

    
    In August 2006, we announced a fiscal year 2007 cost reduction
    and restructuring plan (the FY07 Plan) that is expected to yield
    approximately $200 million in annualized savings when
    completed. We currently expect a workforce reduction of
    approximately 2,000 positions, including 300 positions
    associated with joint ventures, facilities consolidations and
    other cost reduction initiatives. We expect to incur total
    pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $200 million
    over the 2007 and 2008 fiscal years in connection with this
    restructuring plan.



 


     
        • 

    
    In April 2006, we transitioned our human resources applications
    worldwide and certain financial and sales processing systems for
    our North American operations to SAP, an enterprise resource
    planning (ERP) system. This change in information system
    platform for our financial and operational systems is part of an
    on-going project to implement SAP at all of our facilities
    worldwide, which is expected to be completed over the next few
    years.



 


     
        • 

    
    We made the following key additions and changes to our executive
    management team:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In February 2007, we announced the appointment of Bilhar Mann as
    senior vice president and general manager of our Security
    Management business unit.



 


     
        • 

    
    In November 2006, we announced that Bill Lipsin was named Senior
    Vice President of Worldwide Channels.






    
    2
    



 



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In September 2006, we announced that Amy Fliegelman Olli was
    named Executive Vice President and Co-General Counsel, reporting
    to our Chief Executive Officer. In February 2007, Ms. Olli
    was named Executive Vice President and General Counsel.



 


     
        • 

    
    In August 2006, we announced that Dr. Ajei S. Gopal joined
    CA as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the
    Enterprise Systems Management (ESM) business unit.
    Mr. Gopal succeeds Al Nugent who was recently appointed our
    Chief Technology Officer.



 


     
        • 

    
    In July 2006, we announced that Nancy E. Cooper was named
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
    Company, reporting to our Chief Executive Officer.



 


     
        • 

    
    In June 2006, we announced that James E. Bryant was named
    Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of the
    Company, reporting to our Chief Executive Officer.





 



    (b) Financial
    Information About Segments





    Our global business is principally in a single industry
    segment — the design, development, marketing,
    licensing, and support of software products that can operate on
    a wide range of hardware platforms and operating systems. Refer
    to Note 5, “Segment and Geographic Information”,
    in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    financial data pertaining to our segment and geographic
    operations.


 



    (c) Narrative
    Description of the Business





    As one of the world’s leading independent enterprise
    management software companies, we provide software that unifies
    and simplifies complex IT management across an enterprise to
    help improve business results.


 


    We believe this has become important to companies because IT is
    more strategic today than ever. Not only do companies rely on IT
    to conduct
    day-to-day
    business, but they also need IT to fuel growth, offer new
    services and set them apart from the competition. Organizations
    also use IT to comply with regulations, manage resources better
    and help drive innovation. In short, IT has transitioned from a
    support function into a true business driver.


 


    We believe that managing IT has become increasingly complex and
    to take full advantage of IT requires management and
    integration. Companies must be able to manage IT as a whole and
    not as islands of technology isolated from the business. Over
    the last decade, the IT infrastructure has grown into a
    complicated collection of silos, each handling critical but
    discrete functions, often without the ability to work together.
    We also believe the need to better manage IT is driven by
    factors such as the inadequate use of best practice processes
    across much of IT, the inability to gain a common view of IT,
    the introduction of new technologies — such as server
    virtualization or mobile devices, as well as everyday business
    pressures such as competition and profitability.


 


    Our mission is to transform the way our customers manage IT, and
    EITM is our vision of how we can help organizations accomplish
    this. With our EITM solutions and expertise, we help customers
    effectively govern, manage and secure IT. We believe we have a
    unique competitive advantage in the marketplace with the breadth
    and quality of our solutions; our hardware independence; and our
    ability to offer solutions that are modular and integrated so
    that customers can use them at their own pace. As a result,
    customers gain the ability to manage risk, improve service,
    manage costs and align their IT investments with their business
    needs.


 


    EITM helps customers transform IT management and take advantage
    of what IT can do for their business. We help customers unify
    disparate elements of IT, systems, processes and people, and use
    technology and automation to simplify complex IT management.
    Rather than replacing existing IT investments, customers can
    gain visibility and control in order to better manage what they
    already have in place — whether it’s a
    distributed or mainframe environment, and regardless of the
    hardware or software they are using.


 


    To help customers improve IT management, we deliver solutions
    that effectively govern, manage and secure IT. CA Capability
    Solutions are the building blocks of EITM. These solutions are
    modular and integrated so customers can address their needs at
    their own pace and realize value quickly. CA Capability
    Solutions can be used individually or in combination. CA
    Capability Solutions include services, education, and support,
    as well as partner offerings. In addition, CA Capability
    Solutions support a common view of a service through our Unified
    Service Model, which is a core element of our architecture. The
    Unified Service



    
    3
    



 




    Model provides a
    360-degree
    view into the technology, assets, people, projects and processes
    supporting any given service, and the relationships among these
    components. With this insight, customers can manage IT more
    effectively.


 



    Growth
    Strategy





    We are pursuing a multi-year, four-part growth strategy to make
    our EITM vision real for our customers, enable a competitive
    cost structure for CA and move our company from
    transaction-oriented sales to a relationship focus on the
    largest enterprise customers:


 


    1. Internal Product Development
    


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In the past fiscal year, CA made significant progress on
    delivering new products and integrations supporting our EITM
    vision. We shipped new versions or new releases of virtually
    every major CA product, along with integrating our acquisitions
    including MDY, ilumin Software Services, Inc. (iLumin),
    Cybermation, XOsoft, and Cendura. In addition, we began to see
    synergies from some of our larger prior period acquisitions of
    Wily Technology, Inc. (Wily), Netegrity, Inc (Netegrity), Niku
    Corporation (Niku) and Concord Communications, Inc. (Concord)
    with some of our other CA products like CA Unicenter Service
    Desk, CA Unicenter Network and Systems Management, CA Unicenter
    Asset Management and the security products.



 


     
        • 

    
    We have approximately 5,800 engineers globally who design and
    support CA software and have charged approximately
    $0.7 billion to operations in each of the fiscal years
    ended March 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 for product
    development and enhancements.



 


     
        • 

    
    We also are becoming more efficient in our development. We are
    growing our India Technology Center (in Hyderabad), which has
    expanded to approximately 1,200 developers and support engineers
    since its launch in 2003; and tapping an important talent pool
    in the Czech Republic (Prague) for mainframe development with
    approximately 100 developers there.





 


    2. Strengthening Partner
    Relationships
    


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Partners are critical to our success. We need a broad base of
    partners to improve our reach, complement our expertise in niche
    areas and provide fulfillment and distribution. We partner with
    global systems integrators for their process design and planning
    as well as vertical expertise. We also work with value-added
    partners to offer enterprise solution implementation and we work
    with distribution partners who have specific market expertise.



 


     
        • 

    
    We have an active channel partner program. By developing strong
    relationships with global systems integrators, distribution
    channel partners, value-added resellers (VARs), system builders
    and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), we extend CA
    technology to customers who otherwise wouldn’t have access
    to it and expand the value we bring to customers overall. Our
    channel partners sell certain CA solutions that require a high
    level of expertise to sell.



 


     
        • 

    
    Our Enterprise Solution Provider Program supports our partners
    by recruiting, training and educating resellers on CA products
    and solutions. Through this program, we have authorized
    approximately 500 channel partners worldwide to sell certain CA
    solutions and are working with selected global solutions
    providers who sell solutions to multi-national companies. In the
    past year, we strengthened our business with our global systems
    integrators (including, but not limited to, companies such as
    Accenture, Deloitte, and PricewaterhouseCoopers).



 


     
        • 

    
    In April 2007, we formed our Mid-Market and Storage organization
    to develop and package solutions that focus on companies with
    500-5,000
    employees and revenue of $100 million to $1 billion.
    This organization will deliver CA solutions for this market
    through CA’s channel-enabling partners to capitalize on the
    multi-billion dollar opportunity represented by the estimated
    66,000 such companies around the world.





 


    3. International Expansion
    


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We continue to invest internationally to increase the revenue we
    generate outside of the U.S. in areas where we believe the
    opportunities are greatest.



 


     
        • 

    
    In September 2006, we restructured our Latin America operation
    to be more aligned with market conditions and opportunities
    while reducing overall costs of the operation.






    
    4
    



 



 


    4. Strategic Acquisitions
    


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We consider acquisitions that will support our EITM vision,
    extend our market position or expand our geographic footprint.



 


     
        • 

    
    In fiscal year 2007, we completed four acquisitions (see
    Note 2, “Acquisitions and Divestitures” in the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more
    information). These acquisitions filled technology gaps in our
    portfolio, strengthened our position in core focus areas, and
    continue to help round out our EITM offerings to better serve
    our customers.





 



    Business
    Organization





    According to industry trends and from our own research conducted
    over the past 18 months, we believe that customers are
    transitioning IT from a support function into a true business
    driver. They not only rely on IT to conduct
    day-to-day
    business, but they also need IT to fuel growth, enable
    innovation and create a competitive advantage. As this happens,
    customers need to be able to run IT like a service business.
    Fundamentally, IT is a collection of infrastructure assets,
    information, people and processes that need to work together.
    Customers want to be able to see what exists in the entire IT
    environment and have insight to make smart decisions on how to
    best use resources. They have to secure the infrastructure and
    gain better control over how IT supports the business.


 


    In order to deliver on our EITM vision and growth strategy, our
    product development is organized to support the sixteen CA
    Capability Solutions described below. As customers increasingly
    manage IT operations in a more holistic way rather than as
    discrete technology functions, we believe our structure allows
    us to more closely align with our customers’ needs and to
    focus on products by growth opportunities within key capability
    areas. We do not presently maintain profit and loss data on our
    Capability Solutions, and they are therefore not considered
    business segments.


 


    With EITM, CA Capability Solutions and our expertise, we believe
    customers can govern, manage and secure their entire IT
    environment — all of the people, information,
    processes, systems, networks, applications and databases from a
    Web service to the mainframe — while gaining the
    benefits of integration throughout the enterprise. CA Capability
    Solutions are grouped according to the main focus of what they
    enable customers to do — govern, manage and secure.
    All CA Capability Solutions are made up of several products and
    include services, education, and support, as well as partner
    offerings. CA Capability Solutions cover the following areas
    which customers tell us are important to their businesses.


 



    Govern





    Customers can maximize the value IT delivers to the business by
    aligning a portfolio of services with business
    objectives — balancing costs, resources and business
    risks. Executives gain insight into all of their IT to make the
    most effective IT investment decisions to support the business.


 


    Our Capability Solutions include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    CA Project & Portfolio Management —
    Ensures IT investment decisions are aligned with business
    strategy and manage risks and costs by providing real-time views
    into an organization’s investments, initiatives and
    resources.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA IT Asset & Financial Management —
    Manages cost and reduces risk by proactively managing assets
    through their life cycles, from requisition to retirement and
    disposal. Manages IT expenditures from budgeting through cost
    allocation.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Information Governance — Protects and
    manages information throughout its life cycle, ensuring accurate
    access and availability at the right time and by the right
    people. Enables organizations to manage, archive and retain
    information based on its relative importance to the business.





 


    The acquisition of MDY (June 2006) strengthened our
    Information Governance portfolio by offering a records
    management solution that controls and manages physical,
    electronic and email records. It provides comprehensive
    lifecycle management of all corporate knowledge assets across
    enterprise content ‘silos’. The architecture,
    Federated
    RMtm,
    provides centralized management (retention, policy, search,
    discovery, hold and security) of vital information dispersed
    across the enterprise.



    
    5
    



 



 



    Manage





    Customers can meet business demands by delivering reliable,
    high-quality services through an automated, optimized IT
    infrastructure. When they understand how the underlying IT
    infrastructure is related to the services the business needs,
    they can manage those services more effectively.


 


    Our Capability Solutions include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    CA Service Level Management — Enables IT
    organizations to establish and monitor adherence to service
    level agreements and to define and publish service offerings
    through an IT service catalog.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Change & Configuration
    Management — Supports a single process for
    managing change to applications and IT infrastructure. Minimizes
    the risk of change by unifying the entire change life cycle,
    from incident inception to the delivery of a patch, fix or
    enhancement.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Incident & Problem Management —
    Automates IT processes to consolidate, log, track, manage,
    escalate and resolve incidents and problems. Assures service
    quality by accelerating detection and resolution.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Application Performance Management — Manages
    the performance and availability of packaged and custom-built
    applications, portals and service oriented architecture (SOA).
    Ensures enterprise applications are delivering optimal service.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Service Availability Management — Integrates
    event and performance management across all domains, systems,
    networks, storage, databases and applications. Improves IT staff
    efficiency by enabling process-driven management, policy-based
    automation and rapid root-cause analysis.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Network & Voice Management —
    Provides integrated fault and performance management of
    heterogeneous data, IP telephony and legacy voice networks.
    Reduces downtime by identifying service degradations before
    users are impacted.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Dynamic & Virtual Systems
    Management — Discovers, monitors and automates the
    management of heterogeneous, virtual and clustered system
    environments, ensuring availability and performance. Prevents
    unnecessary capital expenditures by maximizing utilization of
    existing server investments.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Workload Automation — Dynamically automates
    the workload across multiplatform environments based on events.
    Enables companies to improve the delivery of critical business
    services while reducing costs.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Database Management — Reduces the total cost
    of database ownership by automating
    day-to-day
    operations and increasing overall service responsiveness.
    Provides advanced technology and integration to manage
    increasingly large and complex databases.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Recovery Management — Provides comprehensive
    cross-platform backup/recovery, disaster recovery, data
    replication and failover to securely manage and protect data
    resources. Minimizes risks to data and helps optimize the
    storage infrastructure.





 


    In the past fiscal year, we augmented our capabilities in
    Workload Automation and Dynamic & Virtual Systems
    Management with the acquisitions of Cybermation (May
    2006) and Cendura (September 2006), respectively.
    Cybermation brought mainframe job scheduling technology,
    competitive swap out tools, and an engine to support our future
    investments in IT process orchestration. Similarly, Cendura adds
    the ability to understand how IT devices combine to form a
    business-consumable service; and allows us to monitor
    configuration changes to IT devices. The acquisition of XOsoft
    (July 2006) strengthened our Recovery Management solutions
    by adding continuous application availability solutions to our
    portfolio including data replication, high-availability
    failover, and continuous data protection (CDP). Together,
    these acquisitions represent a significant technical move
    forward in helping customers manage their IT operations.


 



    Secure





    Customers can protect assets and manage risks by monitoring and
    enforcing policy-based controls, managing identities and
    ensuring appropriate access. When they understand who has access
    to what is happening in the IT environment and what they have to
    do about it, they can better manage security.



    
    6
    



 



 


    Our Capability Solutions include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    CA Identity & Access Management —
    Automates the management of a user’s identity through its
    life cycle, ensuring that only authorized users can access
    critical IT resources from the Web to the mainframe. Mitigates
    risk, supports compliance initiatives and enables new business
    opportunities.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Security Information Management — Provides
    centralized management of real-time events and post-event
    forensics analysis to improve administrator efficiency and
    reduce costs while ensuring security.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Threat Management — Prevents spyware,
    viruses, worms, spam and malicious content from infiltrating and
    infecting a customer’s network, email and business
    applications. Identifies threats and infrastructure
    vulnerabilities, preventing incidents before they negatively
    impact assets.





 


    In the past year, CA has brought new security products to market
    (such as CA Host-based Intrusion Prevention), has grown in new
    market segments (extending the security portfolio in the
    consumer and mid-markets) and has updated the main product
    suites and expanded into new areas around Federated, SOA
    security and embedded application security. Going forward, we
    will continue to focus on initiatives regarding
    ease-of-use,
    improvement in product quality, innovation and leadership in
    security markets.


 



    Our
    Unified Service Model and Integration Platform





    With the EITM vision and CA Capability Solutions, our EITM
    architecture enables high-quality services to be delivered to
    users, while optimizing assets and resources. The Unified
    Service Model, maintained in the CA Configuration Management
    Database (CA CMDB), is the centerpiece of our architecture for
    delivering EITM. As mentioned earlier, the Unified Service Model
    provides a complete
    360-degree
    view into the IT services delivered to the business. The Unified
    Service Model incorporates all information that defines the
    characteristics of a service. This includes asset and
    relationship details, service levels, prices, costs, quality,
    risks and exposures and consumer information. The Unified
    Service Model is central to maintaining a common view of IT
    across all disciplines, enabling more coordinated automation,
    ensuring IT is meeting the needs of the business and helping
    customers create greater value. Instead of spending time and
    resources on manually handling routine maintenance and
    day-to-day
    IT issues, customers can free up time and budget to pursue
    initiatives more strategic to the business.


 


    Through the Unified Service Model, our EITM architecture can
    provide critical insights on specific areas of the business so
    that customers can take the appropriate action in the following
    ways:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Service Impact — Through the Unified Service
    Model, customers can manage IT services to ensure they are
    directly in line with business priorities. They can prioritize
    the most business-critical services over less important ones so
    their service quality is never compromised and resolve incidents
    and problems that impact those services more quickly.



 


     
        • 

    
    Assets and Resources — Because the Unified
    Service Model provides insight into the relationships and
    interdependencies between IT assets and the services they
    support, it can help customers make the most efficient use of
    their assets and resources.



 


     
        • 

    
    Identity — Integration with our security
    solutions enables our customers to manage the identity and
    entitlements of users from a services perspective. In other
    words, customers can ensure that any technology asset or IT
    staffer involved in supporting a given service and any users of
    the service have the appropriate, secure access they require.



 


     
        • 

    
    Service Portfolio — A Service Portfolio
    leverages the Unified Service Model to provide insight into the
    consumption, quality, costs and risks associated with those
    services to guide investment decisions.





 


    The CA Integration Platform is the architectural foundation upon
    which our products are integrated. The CA Integration Platform
    leverages a SOA to deliver a set of shared, modular services,
    including an integrated workflow, User Interface services and
    scheduling services.



    
    7
    



 



 



    Office
    of the CTO





    The Office of the CTO drives our technology strategy; manages
    development of the CA integration platform, common components
    and services; manages our intellectual property and patent
    portfolio; governs our participation in standards organizations;
    and leads research and development for emerging technologies.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Technology Strategy — As we evolve our vision
    of EITM, our goal is to help enterprises to more effectively
    govern, manage, and secure their environments. Our approach is
    to enable customers to become more prescriptive about their
    behavior through leveraging policies. We call our approach
    policy-based intelligent automation. The foundation of this
    approach is the CA Integration Platform, an event-driven
    architecture built on an SOA-based conduit and a collection of
    shared software services. The evolution of the integration
    platform enables the evolution of the EITM vision. Over time,
    the integration platform will become a focal point for
    enterprise policy, identity, control structures, and management
    state. In addition, it will also provide access to a variety of
    network-based integration services between CA and third party
    products and the common services outlined below.



 


     
        • 

    
    Architecture and Methodology — The Office of
    the CTO seeks to ensure all of our products are implemented
    according to a proven and consistent technical architecture.
    Having a consistent technical architecture also promotes greater
    product quality, improves user experience and simplifies product
    integration, all while lowering development costs and enabling
    cross-company usage of key components and technologies.



 


     
        • 

    
    Common Technologies/Common Services — The
    Office of the CTO manages the centralized development of a set
    of technologies and services shared by a number of our products
    and solutions. These include a federated management repository,
    licensing technologies, messaging technologies, workflow
    technologies and user interface technologies. These technologies
    and services enable our products to work together more easily
    and improve our ability to provide a simple, secure, and agile
    set of solutions to customers at a lower maintenance cost.



 


     
        • 

    
    Intellectual Property (IP) and Standards — We
    understand a well-developed patent portfolio helps us leverage
    and protect intellectual property assets in strategic areas. In
    fiscal year 2007, we enhanced our invention program in order to
    increase both the quantity and quality of our invention
    submissions. This team is also leading efforts to reduce
    unnecessary patent infringement lawsuits in the software
    industry by improving industry-wide patent quality. The IP and
    Standards team organizes CA’s leadership and participation
    in the most strategic standards and open source bodies including
    W3C, Oasis, and Eclipse.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA Council for Technical Excellence — The CA
    Council for Technical Excellence was formed in 2006 to lead
    innovative projects designed to set the pace for true innovation
    in the industry. The Council also advises on technical issues of
    great importance to our future business. Council members promote
    innovation, communication, collaboration, standards and
    architectural approaches throughout CA’s global technical
    community.



 


     
        • 

    
    Innovation — The Office of the CTO houses two
    innovation centers: Research Labs and Emerging Business
    Opportunities:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Research Labs — CA Labs drives research in
    advanced technologies related to management and security with
    return horizons typically greater than two years. This group
    performs research internally and works with major universities
    and standard setting bodies. Current areas of focus include the
    security, management, diagnosis and
    ease-of-use
    for on-demand computing, virtualized environments/virtualized
    services, policy-based automation and service-oriented
    architectures.



 


     
        • 

    
    Emerging Business Opportunities — The Office of
    the CTO manages incubator projects for innovative governance,
    management and security solutions beyond those developed to
    support existing Capability Solutions with return horizons
    typically between one and two years. As these innovations reach
    the customer adoption phase, these product lines contribute
    value to customers and revenue to CA.





 



    Technological
    Expertise





    Certain aspects of our products and technology are proprietary.
    We rely on U.S. and foreign intellectual property laws,
    including patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to
    protect our proprietary rights. As of March 31, 2007, we
    hold over 500 patents worldwide and over 1,000 patent
    applications are pending worldwide for our technology. However,
    the



    
    8
    



 




    extent and duration of protection given to different types of
    intellectual property rights vary under different
    countries’ legal systems. Generally, our U.S. and foreign
    patents expire at various times over the next twenty years.
    While the durations of our patents vary, we believe that the
    durations of our patents are adequate. The expiration of any of
    our patents will not have a material adverse effect on our
    business. In some countries, full-scale intellectual property
    protection for our products and technology may be unavailable,
    or the laws of other jurisdictions may not protect our
    proprietary technology rights to the same extent as the laws of
    the United States. We also maintain contractual restrictions in
    our agreements with customers, employees and others to protect
    our intellectual property rights. In addition, we occasionally
    license software and technology from third parties, including
    some competitors, and incorporate them into our own software
    products.


 


    The source code for our products is protected both as trade
    secrets and as copyrighted works. Some of our customers are
    beneficiaries of a source code escrow arrangement that enables
    the customer to obtain a contingent, future-limited right to
    access our source code. If our source code is accessed, the
    likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our
    intellectual property may increase.


 


    We are not aware that our products or technologies infringe on
    the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties, however,
    may assert infringement claims against us with respect to our
    products, and any such assertion may require us to enter into
    royalty arrangements or result in costly and time-consuming
    litigation. Although we have a number of U.S. and foreign
    patents and pending applications that may have value to various
    aspects of our products and technology, we are not aware of any
    single patent that is essential to us or to any of our principal
    business product areas.


 


    We continue to invest extensively in product development and
    enhancements. We anticipate that we will continue to adapt our
    software products to the rapid changes in the IT industry and
    will continue to enhance our products to help them remain
    compatible with hardware changes. We expect that we will
    continue to be able to improve our software products to work
    with the latest hardware platforms and operating systems.


 


    To keep CA on top of major technological advances and to ensure
    our products continue to work well with those of other vendors,
    CA is active in most major standards organizations and takes the
    lead in many. Further, CA was the first major software company
    to earn the International Organization for
    Standardization’s (ISO) 9001:2000 Global Certification, the
    ultimate ISO certification.


 


    In addition, CA has built a strong global product development
    staff in Australia, China, the Czech Republic, Germany, India,
    Israel, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. Our
    technological efforts around the world ensure we maintain a
    global perspective of customer needs while cost-effectively
    tapping the skills and talents of developers worldwide, and
    enable us to efficiently and effectively deliver support to CA
    customers.


 


    In the United States, product development is primarily performed
    at our facilities in Brisbane and Redwood City, California;
    San Diego, California; Lisle, Illinois; Framingham,
    Massachusetts; Mount Laurel, New Jersey; Islandia, New York;
    Plano, Texas; and Herndon, Virginia.


 


    For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    the costs of product development and enhancements, including
    related support, charged to operations were $0.7 billion
    for each fiscal year. In fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, we
    capitalized costs of $85 million, $84 million, and
    $70 million, respectively, for internally developed
    software. The increase in capitalized costs for fiscal years
    2007 and 2006 as compared with fiscal year 2005 was principally
    related to the effort to refresh our product offerings,
    including Enterprise Systems Management (Unicenter r11) and
    BrightStor products.


 



    Customers





    No individual customer accounted for a material portion of our
    revenue during any of the past three fiscal years, or a material
    portion of the license contract value that has not yet been
    earned (deferred subscription value) reported at the end of any
    period in the past three fiscal years. At March 31, 2007,
    five customers accounted for substantially all of our
    outstanding prior business model net receivables which amounted
    to approximately $503 million, including one large IT
    outsourcing customer with a license arrangement that extends
    through fiscal year 2012 with a net unbilled receivable balance
    in excess of $400 million. The majority of our software
    products are used with relatively expensive computer hardware.
    As a result, most of our revenue is generated from customers who
    have the ability to make substantial commitments to software and
    hardware



    
    9
    



 




    implementations. Our software products are used in a broad range
    of industries, businesses and applications. We have a large and
    broad base of customers. We currently serve companies across
    every major industry worldwide, including manufacturers,
    technology companies, retailers, banks, insurance companies,
    other financial services providers, educational institutions,
    health care institutions and governmental agencies. Our
    customer’s satisfaction is important to us. Therefore
    approximately 10% of the variable compensation for approximately
    1,400 senior CA managers is linked to our customers’
    satisfaction, which we measure through independent surveys.


 


    When customers enter into a software license agreement with us,
    they often pay for the right to use our software for a specified
    period of time. When the terms of these agreements expire, the
    customer must either renew the license agreement or pay usage
    and maintenance fees, if applicable, for the right to continue
    to use our software and receive support. We believe that our
    flexible business model allows us to maintain our customer base
    while allowing us the opportunity to cross-sell new software
    products and services to them.


 



    CA
    Service and Education





    Our CA Technology
    Servicestm
    team and global systems integration partners strive to help our
    customers shorten the time to measurable business results
    through fast, efficient implementation of our solutions. Through
    our global team of experts we offer a portfolio of assessment,
    implementation, optimization and managed service offerings to
    assist our customers at all stages of their solution deployment.
    Our proven, repeatable and phased approach draws on the
    expertise and best practice knowledge developed during thousands
    of successful projects completed annually in large and diverse
    organizations.


 


    In addition, our CA Education team offers a full blend of
    learning solutions and certification programs around CA software
    and IT management best practices such as information technology
    infrastructure library (ITIL). We offer a comprehensive
    portfolio of foundation to advanced level training to address
    the needs of all users within our customers from implementers,
    administrators, end users to business users. Our blended
    learning solutions range from classroom-based training in our
    Global Learning Centers to self-paced and Web-instructor-led
    on-line training offerings. This ensures that our customers have
    the right skill sets and competencies to achieve the full value
    from their IT management solution.


 



    CA
    Technical Support





    As part of our commitment to customer satisfaction, we strive to
    provide our customers with industry leading support. CA
    Technical Support is a highly skilled, customer focused team
    that spans locations around the world, delivering 24 x 7
    business-critical assistance in 18 languages.


 


    Support is intended to help customers get the most from their
    software purchase by resolving issues and answering product
    questions. We call this enterprise offering CA Business Critical
    Support, to which customers may selectively add custom offerings
    as further detailed below.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    CA Business Critical Support (CA BCS) — These
    services provide customers with a full range of direct-contact
    and self-service features including unlimited calls and callers,
    remote problem analysis and assistance during local country
    business hours, and access to a wide range of online support
    services. Currently more than 200,000 registered users make use
    of our self-service portal to research technical information;
    open and maintain incident reports; and download product
    releases, patches and documentation.



 


     
        • 

    
    CA BCS Custom Offerings — These services are
    fee-based and designed to provide focused support over customer
    designated periods, to further enhance the successful use of
    purchased software.





 


    CA Support Availability Management (CA SAM) —
    Customers with a large portfolio of CA software may benefit from
    our ability to align Technical Support with their operational
    plans, coordinate resources and tailor product information. The
    deliverables for the CA SAM offering are designed to maintain
    and improve the return on customers’ software investment at
    a minimum cost.


 


    CA Targeted Support — This service provides
    customers with product-focused attention with a named Support
    Engineer. The Support Engineer has an understanding of the
    customer’s IT environment and business goals and acts as a
    focal point for the support needs around a specific CA product
    or solution.



    
    10
    



 



 


    CA Extended Support — This service addresses
    the needs of customers who require additional time to migrate or
    upgrade to new CA releases, products or solutions. This service
    provides technical support for a specific CA solution, product
    or release that has reached its
    End-of-Service
    or
    End-of-Life
    date.


 


    CA Technical Support has also extended its support to include
    implementation partners. The CA Solution Deployment Support
    offering is intended to help partners validate their solution
    approach, provide customized information and priority routing of
    any issues during the project through an engagement-focused CA
    Technical Support representative. This customized implementation
    support is focused on reducing the risk in project plans and
    improving the time to value for customers.


 


    Separately, we offer support options for consumer and commercial
    products including chat, email and voice support. We also offer
    both business hours and 24x7 support options, in addition to
    web-based self-help for our high-volume product solutions.


 


    This combination of dedicated Technical Support staff, online
    services, custom offerings, and partner support programs drives
    the post-sale customer and partner experience, as well as
    satisfaction with and loyalty to CA’s products.


 



    Business
    Model





    Customers face challenges when trying to achieve their desired
    returns on software investments. These challenges are compounded
    by traditional software pricing models that often force
    companies to make long-term commitments for projected
    capacities. When these projections are inaccurate, companies may
    not achieve the desired returns on investment. Many companies
    are also concerned that, due to short product life cycles for
    some software products, new products may become available before
    the end of their current software license agreement periods. In
    addition, some companies, particularly those in new or evolving
    industries, want pricing structures that are linked to the
    growth of their businesses to minimize the risks of
    overestimating capacity projections.


 


    We believe we can service our customers better by offering more
    flexible licensing terms to help customers realize maximum value
    from their software investments. In October 2000, we formalized
    this philosophy and refer to it as our business model.


 


    Our business model offers customers a wide range of purchasing
    and payment options. Our flexible licensing terms allow
    customers to license our software products for relatively short
    periods of time, including on a monthly basis. Through these
    flexible licensing agreements, customers can evaluate whether
    our software meets their needs before making larger commitments.
    As customers become more comfortable with their software
    investments, they typically license our software for longer
    terms, generally up to three years.


 


    Some customers prefer to choose cost certainty and sign
    longer-term agreements. Under our flexible licensing terms,
    customers can license our software products under multi-year
    licenses, and most customers choose terms of one to three years,
    although longer terms are sometimes selected. We often provide
    our customers with the option to change their product mix after
    an initial period of time to mitigate their risks. We also help
    customers reduce uncertainty by providing a standard pricing
    schedule based on simple usage tiers. Additionally, we offer our
    customers the ability to establish pricing models for our
    products based on their key business metrics. Although this
    practice is not widely utilized by our customers we believe this
    metric-based approach is unique in the software industry and can
    provide us with a competitive advantage.


 


    As a result of the flexible licensing terms we offer our
    customers, specifically the right to receive unspecified future
    upgrades for no additional fee, as well as maintenance included
    during the term of the license, we are required under generally
    accepted accounting principles in the United States of America
    to recognize revenue from certain of our license agreements
    ratably over the license term. For a description of how ratable
    revenue recognition has impacted our financial results, refer to
    “Results of Operations” within Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations.”


 



    Sales
    and Marketing





    We offer our solutions through a direct sales force, which is a
    combination of Account Directors, Account Managers and
    technical experts. We also partner with global systems
    integrators, value-added and distribution partners and OEMs.
    (See “— Growth Strategy — Strengthening
    Partner Relationships” above).


 


    We made substantial changes to our sales organization and sales
    coverage model during fiscal years 2006 and 2007. In the second
    quarter of fiscal year 2006, we expanded our “enterprise
    account” direct sales model in which Account Directors and



    
    11
    



 




    Account Managers are dedicated to managing the
    Company’s relationships with specific new and existing
    enterprise accounts. Their focus is on selling new solutions to
    enterprise customers. While reducing the overall size of our
    force through a reorganization of the sales force in the second
    quarter of fiscal year 2007, we more than doubled the number of
    Account Directors and Account Managers who perform this
    function. Also, early in the third quarter of fiscal year 2007,
    the members of our technical sales organization, consisting of
    more than 1,500 employees, were assigned revised roles as
    solution strategists, technology specialists, and consultants,
    aligned around our product solutions to be deployed as needed by
    our Account Directors and Account Managers in
    connection with the sale of new products and solutions. We also
    have a core group of sales people who are dedicated to managing,
    maintaining and renewing our installed customer base. The
    balance of our market will be covered substantially through our
    resellers and partners. We are engaged in an extensive training
    program to enable our sales force to perform its new roles
    effectively. The purpose of these changes, together with changes
    to CA’s Incentive Compensation Plan and related process
    changes, is threefold: (i) to enable the Company to
    increase its sales of new products and solutions to new and
    existing customers while protecting the Company’s installed
    base; (ii) to reduce costs and increase productivity; and
    (iii) to address the commissions issues that arose in
    connection with our fiscal year 2006 Incentive Compensation Plan.


 


    Our sales organization operates on a worldwide basis. We operate
    through branches and subsidiaries located in 46 countries
    outside the United States. Each geographic territory offers all
    or most of our software products. Approximately 46% of our
    revenue in fiscal year 2007 was from operations outside of the
    United States. As of March 31, 2007, we had approximately
    3,700 sales and sales support personnel.


 


    We also distribute, market and support our software through a
    network of value-added partners, OEMs and distributors. As noted
    earlier, one of our growth strategies is to strengthen our
    partner relationships and grow our partner channel. We actively
    encourage value-added partners to market our software products.
    Value-added partners often combine our software products with
    specialized consulting services and provide enhanced
    user-specific solutions to a particular market or sector.
    Facilities managers, including CSC, EDS, and IBM, often deliver
    IT services using our software products to companies that prefer
    to outsource their IT operations.


 



    Competition





    The markets in which we compete are marked by technological
    change, the steady emergence of new companies and products,
    evolving industry standards, and changing customer needs.
    Competitive differentiators include, but are not limited to:
    industry vision, performance, quality, breadth of product group,
    integration of products, brand name recognition, price,
    functionality, customer support, frequency of upgrades and
    updates, manageability of products, and reputation.


 


    We compete with many established companies in the markets we
    serve. Some of these companies have substantially greater
    financial, marketing, and technological resources, larger
    distribution capabilities, earlier access to customers, and
    greater opportunity to address customers’ various
    information technology requirements than we do. These factors
    may provide our competitors with an advantage in penetrating
    markets with their products. We also compete with many smaller,
    less established companies that may be able to focus more
    effectively on specific product areas or markets. Because of the
    breadth of our product offerings, an individual competitor does
    not generally compete with us across all of our product areas.
    Some of our key competitors include BMC, EMC, HP, IBM, and
    Symantec. We believe that we have a competitive advantage in the
    marketplace with our EITM industry vision, the breadth and
    quality of our product offerings, our products’ hardware
    independence, and the ability to offer our solutions as product
    modules or as integrated suites, so that customers can use them
    at their own pace. In the past fiscal year, we have also
    undertaken an effort to evolve the CA brand by providing a
    consistent worldwide “look, feel and sound” for the
    Company to help the market understand who CA is today and the
    value the Company can deliver.



    
    12
    



 



 



    Employees





    The table below sets forth the approximate number of employees
    by location and functional area as of March 31, 2007:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


    EMPLOYEES
    AS OF
    


 


 


 


    EMPLOYEES
    AS OF
    




    LOCATION
    


 


    MARCH 31,
    2007
    


 


    FUNCTIONAL AREA
    


 


    MARCH 31,
    2007
    




    



 





    Corporate headquarters
    



 


 


    2,000


 


    Product development and support
    


 


 


    5,800




 


 


 


 


 


    Sales and support
    


 


 


    3,700





    Other U.S. offices
    



 


 


    5,500


 


    Professional services
    


 


 


    1,400





    International offices
    



 


 


    7,000


 


    Information technology
    support, finance, and administration
    


 


 


    3,600





    






    Total
    



 


 


    14,500


 


    Total
    


 


 


    14,500





    
    









 


    As of March 31, 2007 and 2006, we had approximately 14,500
    and 16,000 employees, respectively. The decrease was mostly in
    our sales and support staff and reflects the actions taken
    through the FY07 Plan. We believe our employee relations are
    satisfactory.


 



    (d)
    Financial Information About Geographic Areas





    Refer to Note 5, “Segment and Geographic
    Information”, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for financial data pertaining to our segment and
    geographic operations.


 



    (e) Available
    Information





    Our website address is ca.com. All filings we make with
    the SEC, including our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    our Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    our Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and any amendments, are available for free on our website as
    soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or
    furnished to the SEC. Our SEC filings are available to be read
    or copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100
    F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information
    regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room can be
    obtained by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    Our filings can also be obtained for free on the SEC’s
    Internet site at sec.gov. The reference to our website
    address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the
    information contained on the website in this Report or other
    filings with the SEC, and the information contained on the
    website is not part of this document.


 


    Our website also contains information about our initiatives in
    corporate governance, including: our corporate governance
    principles; information concerning our Board of Directors
    (including
    e-mail
    communication with them); our Business Practices Standard of
    Excellence: Our Code of Conduct (applicable to all of our
    employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief
    Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, and our
    directors); instructions for calling the CA Compliance and
    Ethics Helpline; information concerning our Board Committees,
    including the charters of the Audit and Compliance Committee,
    the Compensation and Human Resource Committee, the Corporate
    Governance Committee, and the Strategy Committee; and
    transactions in CA securities by directors and executive
    officers. These documents can also be obtained in print by
    writing to our Executive Vice President, Global Risk &
    Compliance, and Corporate Secretary, Kenneth V. Handal, at the
    Company’s world headquarters in Islandia, New York, at the
    address listed on the cover of this
    Form 10-K.
    Refer to the Corporate Governance section in the Investors
    section of our website for details.


 



    ITEM 1A.
    RISK FACTORS
    


 


    Current and potential stockholders should consider carefully the
    risk factors described below. Any of these factors, or others,
    many of which are beyond our control, could negatively affect
    our revenue, profitability and cash flow.



    
    13
    



 



 



    Our
    operating results and revenue are subject to fluctuations caused
    by many economic factors associated with our industry and the
    markets for our products which, in turn, may individually and
    collectively affect our revenue, profitability and cash flow in
    adverse and unpredictable ways.
    





    Quarterly and annual results of operations are affected by a
    number of factors associated with our industry and the markets
    for our products, including those listed below, which in turn
    could adversely affect our revenue, profitability and cash flow
    in the future.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Timing and impact of threat outbreaks (e.g., worms and
    viruses);



 


     
        • 

    
    The rate of adoption of new product technologies and releases of
    new operating systems;



 


     
        • 

    
    Demand for products and services;



 


     
        • 

    
    Length of sales cycle;



 


     
        • 

    
    Customer difficulty in implementation of our products;



 


     
        • 

    
    Magnitude of price and product
    and/or
    services competition;



 


     
        • 

    
    Introduction of new hardware;



 


     
        • 

    
    General economic conditions in countries in which customers do a
    substantial amount of business;



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in customer budgets for hardware, software and services;



 


     
        • 

    
    Ability to develop and introduce new or enhanced versions of our
    products;



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in foreign currency exchange rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    Ability to control costs;



 


     
        • 

    
    The number and terms and conditions of licensing transactions;



 


     
        • 

    
    Reorganizations of the sales and technical services forces;



 


     
        • 

    
    The results of litigation; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Ability to retain and attract qualified personnel.





 


    Any of the foregoing factors, among others, may cause our
    operating expenses to be disproportionately high, or cause our
    revenue and operating results to fluctuate. As a consequence,
    our business, financial condition, operating results and cash
    flow could be adversely affected. For a discussion of certain
    factors that could affect our cash flow in the future, for
    example, please see Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Sources and Uses of Cash”.


 



    The
    timing of orders from customers and channel partners may cause
    fluctuations in some of our key financial metrics which may
    impact our quarterly financial results and stock price.
    





    Historically, a substantial portion of our license agreements
    are executed in the last month of a quarter. Any failure or
    delay in executing new or renewed license agreements in a given
    quarter could cause fluctuations in some of our key financial
    metrics (i.e., new deferred subscription value or cash
    flow), which may have a material adverse effect on our quarterly
    financial results. Our historically uneven sales pattern also
    makes it difficult to predict future new deferred subscription
    value and cash flow for each period and, accordingly, increases
    the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results
    and financial condition. If we do not achieve our forecasted
    results for a particular period, our stock price could decline
    significantly.


 



    Given
    the global nature of our business, economic or political events
    beyond our control can affect our business in unpredictable ways.
    





    International revenue has historically represented a significant
    percentage of our total worldwide revenue. Continued success in
    selling our products outside the United States will depend on a
    variety of market and business factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Reorganizations of the sales and technical services workforce;






    
    14
    



 



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in foreign exchange currency rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    Staffing key managerial positions;



 


     
        • 

    
    The ability to successfully localize software products for a
    significant number of international markets;



 


     
        • 

    
    General economic conditions in foreign countries;



 


     
        • 

    
    Political stability; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Trade restrictions such as tariffs, duties or other controls
    affecting foreign operations.





 


    Any of the foregoing factors, among others, could adversely
    affect our business, financial condition, operating results and
    cash flow.


 



    Changes
    to the compensation of our sales organization could adversely
    affect our business, financial condition, operating results and
    cash flow.
    





    We may update our compensation plans for the sales organization
    from time to time in order to align the sales force with the
    Company’s economic interests. Under the terms of CA’s
    Incentive Compensation Plan (the “Incentive Compensation
    Plan”), management retains broad discretion to change or
    modify various aspects of the plan such as sales quotas or
    territory assignments to ensure that the plan is aligned with
    CA’s overall business objectives. However, the laws of many
    of the countries and states in which CA operates impose
    limitations on the degree of discretion a company’s
    management may exercise on compensation matters such as
    commissions. The Incentive Compensation Plan itself, or changes
    made by management where CA exercises discretion to change the
    Incentive Compensation Plan, may lead to outcomes that are not
    anticipated or intended and may impact our cost of doing
    business, employee morale,
    and/or other
    performance metrics, all of which could adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Changes
    to our sales force coverage model and organization could
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating
    results, and cash flow.
    





    During fiscal years 2006 and 2007, we made substantial changes
    to our sales organization and sales coverage model. See
    Item 1, “Business — (c) Description of
    the Business — Sales and Marketing” for more
    information. The purpose of these changes was to enable the
    Company to increase its sales of new products and solutions to
    new and existing customers while protecting the Company’s
    installed base. In addition, these changes require our sales
    force to acquire new skills and knowledge and to assume
    different roles. We are fully deploying these changes on a
    worldwide basis in fiscal year 2008, and we may make additional
    changes in the future. Any of these changes may lead to outcomes
    that are not anticipated or intended and may impact the
    performance of our sales force and thus our cost of doing
    business, employee morale,
    and/or other
    performance metrics, all of which could adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Failure
    to expand our channel partner programs related to the sale of CA
    solutions may result in lost sales opportunities, increases in
    expenses and weakening in our competitive position.
    





    We sell CA solutions through systems integrators and value-added
    resellers in channel partner programs that require training and
    expertise to sell these solutions, and global penetration to
    grow these aspects of our business. The failure to expand these
    channel partner programs and penetrate these markets may
    adversely impact our success with channel partners, resulting in
    lost sales opportunities and an increase in expenses, as well as
    weaken our competitive position.


 



    If
    we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting
    and managerial systems and processes, including the successful
    implementation of our enterprise resource planning software from
    SAP AG, our ability to manage and grow our business may be
    harmed.
    





    Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and
    comply with regulations requires effective planning and
    management systems and processes. We will need to continue to
    improve existing and implement new operational and financial
    systems, procedures and controls to manage our business
    effectively in the future. As a result, we have licensed
    enterprise resource planning (ERP) software from SAP AG and have
    begun a process to expand and upgrade our operational and
    financial systems. Phase one of the implementation was completed
    in April 2006 and included operating activities in



    
    15
    



 




    North America and worldwide human resources. A second major
    phase of SAP was implemented in November 2006, which included
    operating activities in our CA Technology Services business. Any
    delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition
    to, our new or enhanced systems, procedures or internal
    controls, could adversely affect our ability to accurately
    forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain, achieve accuracy
    in the conversion of electronic data and records, and report
    financial and management information, including the filing of
    our quarterly or annual reports with the SEC, on a timely and
    accurate basis. As a result of the conversion from prior systems
    and processes, data integrity problems may be discovered that if
    not corrected could impact our business or financial results. In
    addition, as we add functionality to the ERP software and
    complete implementations in other geographic regions, new issues
    could arise that we have not foreseen. Such issues could
    adversely affect our ability to do, among other things, the
    following in a timely manner: provide quotes; take customer
    orders; ship products; provide services and support to our
    customers; bill and track our customers; fulfill contractual
    obligations; and otherwise run our business. Failure to properly
    or adequately address these issues could result in the diversion
    of management’s attention and resources, impact our ability
    to manage our business and negatively impact our results of
    operations, cash flows and stock price. See Item 4,
    “Controls and Procedures”, for further information.


 



    We
    may encounter difficulties in successfully integrating companies
    and products that we have acquired or may acquire into our
    existing business and, therefore, such failed integration may
    adversely affect our infrastructure, market presence, results of
    operations and stock price.
    





    We have in the past and expect in the future to acquire
    complementary companies, products, services and technologies.
    The risks we may encounter include: we may find that the
    acquired company or assets do not further improve our financial
    and strategic position as planned; we may have difficulty
    integrating the operations, personnel and commission plans of
    the acquired business; we may have difficulty forecasting or
    reporting results subsequent to acquisitions; we may have
    difficulty retaining the technical skills needed to provide
    services on the acquired products; we may have difficulty
    incorporating the acquired technologies or products with our
    existing product lines; we may have product liability, customer
    liability or intellectual property liability associated with the
    sale of the acquired company’s products; our ongoing
    business may be disrupted by transition or integration issues;
    our management’s attention may be diverted from other
    business concerns; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals
    from governmental authorities under applicable competition and
    antitrust laws; we may have difficulty maintaining uniform
    standards, controls, procedures and policies; our relationships
    with current and new employees, customers and distributors could
    be impaired; the acquisition may result in increased litigation
    risk, including litigation from terminated employees or third
    parties; and our due diligence process may fail to identify
    significant issues with the target company’s product
    quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices, internal
    control deficiencies, including material weaknesses, product
    architecture, legal contingencies and other matters. These
    factors could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations, financial condition or cash flows,
    particularly in the case of a large acquisition or number of
    acquisitions. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other
    rights to purchase stock, including options, to pay for
    acquisitions, existing stockholders’ interests may be
    diluted and earnings per share may decrease.


 



    We
    are subject to intense competition in product and service
    offerings and pricing, and we expect to face increased
    competition in the future, which could diminish demand for our
    products and, therefore, reduce our sales, revenue and market
    presence.
    





    The markets for our products are intensely competitive, and we
    expect product and service offerings and pricing competition to
    increase. Some of our competitors have longer operating
    histories, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of
    customers in any particular market niche, larger technical
    staffs, established relationships with hardware vendors
    and/or
    greater financial, technical and marketing resources.
    Competitors for our various products include large technology
    companies. We also face competition from numerous smaller
    companies that specialize in specific aspects of the highly
    fragmented software industry and shareware authors that may
    develop competing products. In addition, new companies enter the
    market on a frequent and regular basis, offering products that
    compete with those offered by us. Moreover, many customers
    historically have developed their own products that compete with
    those offered by us. The competition may affect our ability to
    attract and retain the technical skills needed to provide
    services to our customers, forcing us to become more reliant on
    delivery of services through third parties. This, in turn, could
    increase operating costs and decrease our revenue, profitability
    and cash flow. Additionally, competition from any of these
    sources can result in price reductions or displacement of our
    products, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.



    
    16
    



 



 


    Our competitors include large vendors of hardware or operating
    system software
    and/or
    service providers. The widespread inclusion of products that
    perform the same or similar functions as our products bundled
    within computer hardware or other companies’ software
    products, or services similar to those provided by us, could
    reduce the perceived need for our products and services, or
    render our products obsolete and unmarketable. Furthermore, even
    if these incorporated products are inferior or more limited than
    our products, customers may elect to accept the incorporated
    products rather than purchase our products. In addition, the
    software industry is currently undergoing consolidation as
    software companies seek to offer more extensive suites and
    broader arrays of software products and services, as well as
    integrated software and hardware solutions. This consolidation
    may negatively impact our competitive position, which could
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating
    results and cash flow. Refer to Item 1,
    “Business — (c) Narrative Description of the
    Business — Competition”, for additional
    information.


 



    Failure
    to adapt to technological change in a timely manner could
    adversely affect our revenues and earnings.
    





    If we fail to keep pace with technological change in our
    industry, such failure would have an adverse effect on our
    revenues and earnings. We operate in a highly competitive
    industry characterized by rapid technological change, evolving
    industry standards, changes in customer requirements and
    frequent new product introductions and enhancements. During the
    past several years, many new technological advancements and
    competing products entered the marketplace. The distributed
    systems and application management markets in which we operate
    are far more crowded and competitive than our traditional
    mainframe systems management markets. Our ability to compete
    effectively and our growth prospects depend upon many factors,
    including the success of our existing distributed systems
    products, the timely introduction and success of future software
    products, and the ability of our products to interoperate and
    perform well with existing and future leading databases and
    other platforms supported by our products. We have experienced
    long development cycles and product delays in the past,
    particularly with some of our distributed systems products, and
    expect to have delays in the future. In addition, we have
    incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant research
    and development costs, as we introduce new products. If there
    are delays in new product introductions or
    less-than-anticipated
    market acceptance of these new products, we will have invested
    substantial resources without realizing adequate revenues in
    return, and our revenues and earnings could be adversely
    affected.


 



    If
    our products do not remain compatible with ever-changing
    operating environments we could lose customers and the demand
    for our products and services could decrease, which would
    negatively impact sales and revenue.
    





    IBM, HP, Sun Microsystems, EMC and Microsoft are the largest
    suppliers of systems and computing software and, in most cases,
    are the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems used by
    most of our customers. Historically, these developers have
    modified or introduced new operating systems, systems software
    and computer hardware. In the future, such new products could
    incorporate features that perform functions currently performed
    by our products, or could require substantial modification of
    our products to maintain compatibility with these
    companies’ hardware or software. Although we have to date
    been able to adapt our products and our business to changes
    introduced by hardware manufacturers and system software
    developers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do
    so in the future. Failure to adapt our products in a timely
    manner to such changes or customer decisions to forego the use
    of our products in favor of those with comparable functionality
    contained either in the hardware or operating system could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    operating results and cash flow.


 



    Certain
    software that we use in daily operations is licensed from third
    parties and thus may not be available to us in the future, which
    has the potential to delay product development and production
    and, therefore, could adversely affect our revenues and profits.
    





    Some of our products contain software licensed from third
    parties. Some of these licenses may not be available to us in
    the future on terms that are acceptable to us or allow our
    products to remain competitive. The loss of these licenses or
    the inability to maintain any of them on commercially acceptable
    terms could delay development of future products or the
    enhancement of existing products. We may also choose to pay a
    premium price for such a license in certain circumstances where
    continuity of the product would outweigh the premium cost of the
    license. There can be no assurance that, at a given point of
    time, any of the above will not have an adverse impact on our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.



    
    17
    



 



 



    Certain
    software we use is from open source code sources which under
    certain circumstances may lead to unintended consequences and,
    therefore, could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.
    





    Some of our products contain software from open source code
    sources. The use of such open source code may subject us to
    certain conditions, including the obligation to offer our
    products that use open source code for no cost. We monitor our
    use of such open source code to avoid subjecting our products to
    conditions we do not intend. However, the use of such open
    source code may ultimately subject some of our products to
    unintended conditions so that we are required to take remedial
    action that may divert resources away from our development
    efforts. We believe that the use of such open source code will
    not have a significant impact on our operations and that our
    products will be viable after any remediation efforts. However,
    there can be no assurance that future conditions involving such
    open source code will not have an adverse impact on our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Discovery
    of errors in our software could adversely affect our revenues
    and earnings and subject us to product liability claims, which
    may be costly and time consuming.
    





    The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite
    testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors
    will not be found in current versions, new versions or
    enhancements of our products after commencement of commercial
    shipments. If new or existing customers have difficulty
    deploying our products or require significant amounts of
    customer support, our operating margins could be adversely
    affected. Moreover, we could face possible claims and higher
    development costs if our software contains undetected errors or
    if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations. Significant
    technical challenges also arise with our products because our
    customers purchase and deploy our products across a variety of
    computer platforms and integrate them with a number of
    third-party software applications and databases. These
    combinations increase our risk further because in the event of a
    system-wide failure, it may be difficult to determine which
    product is at fault; thus, we may be harmed by the failure of
    another supplier’s products. As a result of the foregoing,
    we could experience:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Loss of or delay in revenues and loss of market share;



 


     
        • 

    
    Loss of customers, including the inability to do repeat business
    with existing key customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    Damage to our reputation;



 


     
        • 

    
    Failure to achieve market acceptance;



 


     
        • 

    
    Diversion of development resources;



 


     
        • 

    
    Increased service and warranty costs;



 


     
        • 

    
    Legal actions by customers against us which could, whether or
    not successful, increase costs and distract our management;



 


     
        • 

    
    Increased insurance costs; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Failure to successfully complete service engagements for product
    installations and implementations.





 


    In addition, a product liability claim, whether or not
    successful, could be time-consuming and costly and thus could
    have a material adverse affect on our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Our
    credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded
    further which would require us to pay additional interest under
    our credit agreement and could adversely affect our ability to
    borrow in the future.
    





    As of May 2007, our senior unsecured notes are rated Ba1, BB+
    and BB by Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s), Fitch
    Ratings (Fitch), and Standard and Poor’s (S&P),
    respectively. The outlook of the ratings is negative for all
    three agencies.


 


    Moody’s, Fitch, S&P or any other credit rating agency
    may further downgrade or take other negative action with respect
    to our credit ratings in the future. If our credit ratings are
    further downgraded or other negative action is taken, we would
    be required to, among other things, pay additional interest
    under our credit agreement, if it is utilized. Any downgrades
    could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the
    future and may affect the terms of any such financing. This
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.



    
    18
    



 



 



    We
    have a significant amount of debt and failure to generate
    sufficient cash as our debt becomes due or to renew credit lines
    prior to their expiration may adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.
    





    As of March 31, 2007, we had approximately
    $2.6 billion of debt outstanding, consisting of unsecured
    fixed-rate senior note obligations, convertible senior notes,
    and credit facility borrowings. Refer to Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual
    Obligations and Commitments”, for the payment schedule of
    our long-term debt obligations, inclusive of interest. We expect
    that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities,
    cash provided from operations and our bank credit facilities
    will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. However,
    failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt becomes due or
    to renew credit lines prior to their expiration may adversely
    affect our business, financial condition, operating results and
    cash flow.


 



    Failure
    to protect our intellectual property rights would weaken our
    competitive position.
    





    Our future success is highly dependent upon our proprietary
    technology, including our software. Failure to protect such
    technology could lead to our loss of valuable assets and
    competitive advantage. We protect our proprietary information
    through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret
    laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions.
    Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our proprietary rights,
    policing unauthorized use or copying of our proprietary
    information is difficult. Unauthorized use or copying occurs
    from time to time and litigation to enforce intellectual
    property rights could result in significant costs and diversion
    of resources. Moreover, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions
    do not afford the same degree of protection to our proprietary
    rights as do the laws of the United States. For example, for
    some of our products, we rely on “shrink-wrap” or
    “click-on” licenses which may be unenforceable in
    whole or in part in some jurisdictions in which we operate. In
    addition, patents we have obtained may be circumvented,
    challenged, invalidated or designed around by other companies.
    If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property for
    these or other reasons our business, financial condition,
    operating results and cash flow could be adversely affected.
    Refer to “Item 1, Business —
    (c) Narrative Description of the Business —
    Technological Expertise”, for additional information.


 



    We
    may become dependent upon large transactions and the failure to
    close such transactions could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.
    





    We have historically been dependent upon large-dollar enterprise
    transactions with individual customers. As a result of the
    flexibility afforded by our business model, we anticipate that
    there will be fewer of these transactions in the future. There
    can be no assurances, however, that we will not be reliant on
    large-dollar enterprise transactions in the future, and the
    failure to close such transactions could adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Our
    sales to government clients subject us to risks, including early
    termination, audits, investigations,
    sanctions and penalties.
    





    Approximately 11% of our total deferred subscription value at
    March 31, 2007 is associated with multi-year contracts
    signed with the U.S. Federal Government and other
    U.S. state and local governmental agencies. These contracts
    are generally subject to annual fiscal funding approval
    and/or may
    be terminated at the convenience of the government. Termination
    of a contract or funding for a contract could adversely affect
    our sales, revenue and reputation. Additionally, government
    contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations
    which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and
    administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts,
    refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits,
    suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from
    doing business with the government.


 



    Our
    customers’ data centers and IT environments may be subject
    to hacking or other breaches, harming the market perception of
    the effectiveness of our products.
    





    If an actual or perceived breach of our customers’ network
    security occurs, allowing access to our customers’ data
    centers or other parts of their IT environments, regardless of
    whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market
    perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed.
    Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or
    sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized
    until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate
    these techniques. Alleviating any of these problems could
    require significant expenditures of our capital and diversion of
    our resources from development efforts. Additionally, these
    efforts could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our
    product licensing, or modification of our software, which could
    cause us to lose existing or potential customers, adversely
    affecting our business, financial condition, operating results
    and cash flow.



    
    19
    



 



 



    Our
    software products, data centers and IT environments may be
    subject to hacking or other breaches, harming the market
    perception of the effectiveness of our products.
    





    Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to
    prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing
    target of attacks specifically designed to impede the
    performance of our products. Similarly, experienced computer
    programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network
    security or the security of our data centers and IT environments
    and misappropriate proprietary information or cause
    interruptions of our services. If these intentionally disruptive
    efforts are successful, our activities could be adversely
    affected, our reputation and future sales could be harmed and
    our business, financial condition, operating results and cash
    flow could be adversely affected.


 



    General
    economic conditions may lead our customers to delay or forgo
    technology upgrades which could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.
    





    Our products are designed to improve the productivity and
    efficiency of our customers’ information processing
    resources. However, a general slowdown in the world economy or a
    particular region, particularly with respect to discretionary
    spending for software, could cause customers to delay or forgo
    decisions to license new products, to upgrade their existing
    environments or to acquire services, which could adversely
    affect our business, financial condition, operating results and
    cash flow.


 



    The
    use of third-party microcode could negatively impact our product
    development.
    





    We anticipate ongoing use of microcode or firmware provided by
    hardware manufacturers. Microcode and firmware are essentially
    software programs embedded in hardware and are, therefore, less
    flexible than other types of software. We believe that such
    continued use will not have a significant impact on our
    operations and that our products will remain compatible with any
    changes to such code. However, there can be no assurance that
    future technological developments involving such microcode will
    not have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition,
    operating results and cash flow.


 



    We
    may lose access to third-party operating systems which would
    adversely affect future product development.
    





    In the past, certain of our licensees using proprietary
    operating systems were furnished with “source code”,
    which makes the operating system understandable to programmers;
    and/or
    “object code”, which directly controls the hardware;
    and other technical documentation. Since the availability of
    source code facilitated the development of systems and
    applications software, which must interface with the operating
    systems, independent software vendors, such as us, were able to
    develop and market compatible software. Microsoft, IBM and other
    vendors have a policy of restricting the use or availability of
    the source code for some of their operating systems. To date,
    this policy has not had a material effect on us. Some companies,
    however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or
    impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These
    restrictions may, in the future, result in higher research and
    development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and
    modification of our existing products and the development of new
    products. Although we do not expect that such restrictions will
    have this adverse effect, there can be no assurances that such
    restrictions or other restrictions will not have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating
    results and cash flow.


 



    The
    markets for some or all of our key product areas may not grow.
    





    Our products are arranged in CA Capability Solutions, which are
    in turn grouped according to the main focus of what they enable
    customers to do — govern, manage
    and/or
    secure. Some or all of these areas may not grow, may decline in
    growth, or customers may decline or forego use of products in
    some or all of these areas. This is particularly true in newly
    emerging areas. A decline in sales in these product areas could
    result in decreased demand for our products and services, which
    would adversely impact our business, financial condition,
    operating results and cash flow.


 



    Third
    parties could claim that our products infringe their
    intellectual property rights or that we owe royalty payments
    which could result in significant litigation expense or
    settlement with unfavorable terms that could adversely affect
    our business, financial condition, operating results and cash
    flow.
    





    From time to time third parties may claim that our products
    infringe various forms of their intellectual property
    and/or that
    we owe royalty payments to them. Investigation of these claims,
    whether with or without merit, can be expensive and could affect
    development, marketing or shipment of our products. As the
    number of software patents issued increases, it is likely that



    
    20
    



 




    additional claims, with or without merit, will be asserted.
    Defending against such claims is time-consuming and could result
    in significant litigation expense or settlement with unfavorable
    terms that could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Fluctuations
    in foreign currencies could result in translation losses.
    





    Most of the revenue and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries are
    denominated in local currencies. Given the relatively long sales
    cycle that is typical for many of our products, foreign currency
    fluctuations could result in substantial changes due to the
    foreign currency impact upon translation of these transactions
    into U.S. dollars. Additionally, fluctuations of the
    exchange rates of foreign currencies against the
    U.S. dollar can affect our results from operations within
    those markets, all of which may adversely impact our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Our
    stock price is subject to significant fluctuations.
    





    Our stock price is subject to significant fluctuations in
    response to variations in quarterly operating results, the gain
    or loss of significant license agreements, changes in earnings
    or cash flow estimates by analysts, changes in our
    forward-looking guidance, announcements related to accounting
    issues, announcements of technological innovations or new
    products by us or our competitors, changes in domestic and
    international economic and business conditions, general
    conditions in the software and computer industries and other
    events or factors. In addition, the stock market in general has
    experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have
    affected the market price of many companies in industries that
    are similar or related to those in which we operate and that
    have been unrelated to the operating performance of these
    companies. These market fluctuations have in the past adversely
    affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price
    of our common stock, which in turn could affect the value of our
    stock-based compensation and our ability to retain and attract
    key employees.


 



    Any
    failure by us to execute our restructuring plan successfully
    could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than
    expected.
    





    We have announced restructuring plans, which include workforce
    reductions as well as global facility consolidations and other
    cost reduction initiatives. We may have further workforce
    reductions or restructuring actions in the future. Risks
    associated with these actions and other workforce management
    issues include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce
    reductions, changes in restructuring plans that increase or
    decrease the number of employees affected, decreases in employee
    morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the
    loss of employees, any of which may impair our ability to
    achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm our
    business.


 



    We
    have outsourced various functions to third parties and these
    arrangements may not be successful thereby resulting in
    increased costs or may negatively impact service levels.
    





    We have outsourced various functions to third parties and may
    outsource additional functions to third-party providers in the
    future. We rely on those third parties to provide services on a
    timely and effective basis. Although we closely monitor the
    performance of these third parties and maintain
    back-up
    plans in case third parties are unable to perform as agreed, we
    do not ultimately control the performance of our outsourcing
    partners. The failure of third-party outsourcing partners to
    perform as expected or as required by contract could result in
    significant disruptions and costs to our operations.


 



    Potential
    tax liabilities may adversely affect our results.
    





    We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and
    numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required
    in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the
    ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and
    calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
    We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we
    believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final
    determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be
    materially different than that which is reflected in historical
    income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be
    assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, a material
    effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period
    or periods in which that determination is made could result.



    
    21
    



 



 



    ITEM 1B