Item 1A and elsewhere in this
    Form 10-K.
    Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or
    should our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary
    materially from those described in this
    Form 10-K
    as anticipated, believed, estimated, or expected. We do not
    intend to update these forward-looking statements.


 


    The products and services mentioned in this
    Form 10-K
    are used for identification purposes only and may be protected
    by trademarks, trade names, services marks
    and/or other
    intellectual property rights of the Company
    and/or other
    parties in the United States
    and/or other
    jurisdictions. The absence of a specific attribution in
    connection with any such mark does not constitute a waiver of
    any such right.


 


    This
    Form 10-K
    also contains references to other company, brand, and product
    names. These company, brand, and product names are used herein
    for identification purposes only and may be the trademarks of
    their respective owners. We disclaim any responsibility for
    specifying which marks are owned by which companies or which
    organizations.


 



    EXPLANATORY
    NOTE — RESTATEMENTS


 


    In this
    Form 10-K,
    we are restating prior fiscal periods principally to reflect
    additional (a) non-cash stock-based compensation expense
    relating to employee stock option grants prior to fiscal year
    2002, (b) subscription revenue relating to the early
    renewal of certain contracts, and (c) sales commission
    expense that should have been recorded in the third quarter of
    fiscal year 2006, as described below. As a result of these
    restatements and the issues discussed below, the Company delayed
    the filing of the
    Form 10-K
    for fiscal year 2006 beyond its extended due date of
    June 29, 2006.


 


    The effects of these restatements are reflected in the financial
    statements and other financial data, including quarterly data,
    included in this
    Form 10-K.
    None of the restatements have any impact on cash flows provided
    by continuing operating activities. Refer to Note 12,
    “Restatements”, in the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for additional information. Additionally,
    we have also included under Item 6, “Selected
    Financial Data,” restated financial information for the
    fiscal years ended March 31, 2005 through 2002, and, under
    Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Selected Quarterly Information,” restated quarterly
    financial information for each interim period during fiscal
    years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005. Selected quarterly
    financial information is also presented in Note 12,
    “Restatements”, in the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for fiscal years 2006 and 2005. Other
    disclosures contained in the quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q
    for fiscal years 2006 and prior have not been amended, should no
    longer be relied upon and should be read in conjunction with the
    information contained in this
    Form 10-K.


 


    The Company also reported material weaknesses in its financial
    controls as they relate to the determination of a grant date for
    stock options prior to fiscal year 2002, revenue recognition for
    early renewal of certain license agreements, and the estimation,
    recording and monitoring of sales commissions. Refer to
    Part 1, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures”,
    for additional information concerning the evaluation of the
    Company’s internal control processes.


 



    Stock
    Options:


 


    Given the stock option issues facing public companies,
    particularly in the technology sector, the Company conducted an
    internal review, with the assistance of outside consultants,
    into its historical policies and procedures with respect to the
    granting of stock options, principally from fiscal year 1996 to
    the present under its stock option plans in effect during this
    period. Based upon the results of our review, we determined that
    in years prior to fiscal year 2002, we did not communicate stock
    option grants to individual employees in a timely manner. In
    fiscal years



    
    3



Table of Contents




    1996 through 2001, the Company had delays of up to approximately
    two years from the date that employee stock options were
    approved by the committee of the Company’s Board of
    Directors charged with such duties (the “Committee”),
    to the date such stock option grants were communicated to
    individual employees.


 


    Prior to fiscal year 2002, the Committee generally approved
    grants to executives and other employees receiving options, the
    terms of which were generally set on the date that the Committee
    acted, including the exercise price, vesting schedule and term.
    However, in a number of cases, these approvals involved pools of
    options that were not allocated to specific individuals at the
    time of such approvals. It also appears that communication of
    these grants by management to individual employees was not made
    until some time after the Committee acted, including in some
    cases up to two years after such Committee action. In almost all
    cases, this earlier date had an exercise price that was lower
    than the market price of the Company’s common stock on the
    date the award was formally communicated to employees. The
    grants which were not communicated on a timely basis were made
    primarily to non-executive employees and this grant practice was
    changed after fiscal year 2001. The current practice is that a
    grant is communicated promptly after it is approved by the
    Committee.


 


    The Company treated the date of the action by the Committee as
    the accounting measurement date for determining stock-based
    compensation expense. However, the Company has determined that
    the proper accounting measurement date for stock option awards
    that were not communicated timely to an employee, should have
    been the date the grant was communicated to an employee, not the
    date the Committee approved the grant. As a result, the Company
    should have recognized additional non-cash stock-based
    compensation expense, net of forfeitures, over the vesting
    periods related to such grants in prior fiscal years as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


    Additional
    


 


 


    Additional
    


 





    Fiscal Year



 


    Pre-Tax Expense


 


 


    After-Tax Expense


 




 


 


    (in millions)


 


 


    (in millions)


 



 





    Years prior to fiscal year 2002
    



 


    $


    165


 


 


    $


    78


 





    2002
    



 


 


    83


 


 


 


    50


 





    2003
    



 


 


    50


 


 


 


    30


 





    2004
    



 


 


    29


 


 


 


    16


 





    2005
    



 


 


    12


 


 


 


    —


 





    2006
    



 


 


    3


 


 


 


    1


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total cost for all fiscal periods
    



 


    $


    342


 


 


    $


    175


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    This restatement does not affect previously reported revenue or
    cash provided by operating activities. In addition, the Company
    recorded an immaterial amount associated with its estimate of
    payroll taxes which may be owed in relation to this issue.


 



    Subscription
    Revenue:


 


    Based upon the Company’s review of certain software license
    contract renewals principally in prior periods, the Company has
    determined that it has understated subscription revenue recorded
    in prior periods and as a result will restate its results for
    fiscal years 2005 and 2004 and for the interim periods of fiscal
    years 2006 and 2005. This restatement reflects a further
    adjustment to subscription revenue amounts previously restated
    in the Company’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K/A
    for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 and filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on
    October 18, 2005.


 


    As discussed further in this
    Form 10-K,
    the Company recognizes revenue ratably on a monthly basis over
    the term of the respective subscription license agreements. When
    a contract is cancelled and renewed prior to the expiration of
    its  term, the Company recognizes all future revenue for the
    arrangement ratably over the new license term. The Company
    determined that, beginning in fiscal year 2004, it had been
    systematically understating revenue for certain license
    agreements which have been cancelled and renewed more than once
    prior to the expiration of each successive license agreement.
    This restatement resulted in an increase in subscription revenue
    of approximately $43 million and $12 million in fiscal
    years 2005 and 2004, respectively, and approximately
    $19 million in the first three quarters of fiscal year 2006.



    
    4



Table of Contents





    Restatement
    of Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2006 Results:


 


    In this
    Form 10-K
    we have restated financial results for the third quarter of
    fiscal year 2006 to reflect approximately $31 million of
    additional commission expense that should have been recorded in
    that period. This restatement does not affect previously
    reported cash flows from operations or financial results for the
    full fiscal year. Refer to Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Results of Operations —
    Commissions, Royalties and Bonuses”, and Item 9A,
    “Controls and Procedures”, for additional information.


 


    Additionally, while not related to this commission expense
    restatement, the Company also identified approximately
    $14 million in income taxes recorded in the third quarter
    of fiscal year 2006 associated with foreign taxable income from
    prior fiscal years. Since we are restating the results for the
    third quarter of fiscal year 2006, as well as prior fiscal
    periods, we have determined that this charge should properly be
    reflected in the periods to which it related. Accordingly, an
    adjustment is also being made to decrease income taxes in the
    third quarter of fiscal year 2006 by approximately
    $14 million and increase income tax expense primarily in
    fiscal years 2003 and 2002 by approximately $2 million and
    $12 million, respectively.


 



    PART I



 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business.





 




    
    



    
    (a) 

    
    General
    Development of Business





 



    Overview


 


    CA, Inc. is one of the world’s largest independent
    providers of information technology (IT) management software. We
    develop, market, deliver and license software products and
    services that allow organizations to run, manage and automate
    aspects of their computing environments, or IT infrastructures,
    which are critical to their business.


 


    The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1974, began
    operations in 1976, and completed an initial public offering of
    common stock in December 1981. Our common stock is traded on the
    New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CA”.


 


    We are considered an Independent Software Vendor (ISV). ISVs
    develop and license software products that can increase the
    efficiency of computer hardware platforms or operating systems
    sold by other vendors.


 


    Our software helps our customers dynamically manage all of the
    people, processes, computers, networks and the range of
    technologies that make up their IT infrastructure. We have a
    broad portfolio of software products and services that span the
    areas of infrastructure management, security management, storage
    management and business service optimization. Our solutions work
    across all networks and systems, across distributed and
    mainframe environments, and across all major hardware and
    software platforms in use by our customers.


 


    Because many organizations have increased their investments in
    technology over the years, their IT infrastructures are complex
    and security has become an increasing concern. Customers
    therefore place high value on software and services that can
    help them manage their entire IT infrastructures better and more
    securely.


 



    Business
    Developments and Highlights


 


    In fiscal year 2006, we took the following actions to support
    our business:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We aligned our product development by software business units.
    The business unit structure is designed to increase our
    accountability to customer needs and to be more responsive to
    the changing dynamics of the management software marketplace.
    Please refer to Item 1, “Business —
    (c) Narrative Description of the Business —
    Business Unit Structure” below for more information.



 


     
        • 

    
    We completed several acquisitions throughout fiscal year 2006,
    including but not limited to the following:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In March 2006, we completed the acquisition of Wily Technology,
    Inc. (Wily), a provider of enterprise application management
    solutions, for a total purchase price of approximately
    $374 million. Wily is now part of our Enterprise Systems
    Management business unit.






    
    5



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In October 2005, we completed the acquisition of iLumin Software
    Services, Inc. (iLumin), a privately held provider of enterprise
    message management and archiving software, for a total purchase
    price of approximately $48 million. iLumin’s Assentor
    product line has been added to our Storage Management business
    unit.



 


     
        • 

    
    In July 2005, we completed the acquisition of Niku Corporation
    (Niku), a provider of IT management and governance solutions,
    for a total purchase price of approximately $345 million.
    Niku is now part of our Business Service Optimization business
    unit.



 


     
        • 

    
    In June 2005, we completed the acquisition of Concord
    Communications, Inc. (Concord), a provider of network service
    management software solutions, for a total purchase price of
    approximately $359 million. Concord’s solutions are
    now part of our Enterprise Systems Management business unit.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In November 2005, we held CA World where we unveiled our
    Enterprise IT Management, or EITM, strategy and announced 26
    EITM-enabled products, including the release of Unicenter r11.
    This was CA’s first Unicenter upgrade in 4 years and
    one of CA’s biggest product launches ever.



 


     
        • 

    
    In July 2005, we announced a restructuring plan to more closely
    align our investments with strategic growth opportunities. We
    recorded charges of approximately $66 million in fiscal
    year 2006 for severance and other termination benefits and
    facility closures in connection with our restructuring plan,
    which included a workforce reduction of approximately five
    percent or 800 positions worldwide. The plan is expected to
    yield about $75 million in savings on an annualized basis,
    once the reductions are fully implemented. We anticipate the
    total restructuring plan will cost up to $85 million.



 


     
        • 

    
    We have increased our operations in India, primarily in product
    support and development. This has increased the efficiency of
    our support and development activities.



 


     
        • 

    
    During fiscal year 2006, we repurchased approximately
    $590 million in Company stock.





 


    We began the implementation of a new enterprise resource
    planning system which we expect will improve the efficiency of
    the Company’s operations and enable us to take advantage of
    business intelligence tools to generate the data needed to
    analyze our business in real-time. We have spent approximately
    $129 million on this project through fiscal year 2006 and
    expect to spend approximately $100 million in fiscal year
    2007. Phase one of the implementation was completed in the first
    quarter of fiscal year 2007, which covered operating activities
    in North America and Worldwide Human Resources.


 




    
    



    
    (b) 

    
    Financial
    Information About Segments





 


    Our global business is principally in a single industry
    segment — the design, development, marketing,
    licensing, and support of software products that can operate on
    a wide range of hardware platforms and operating systems. Refer
    to Note 4, “Segment and Geographic Information”,
    in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    financial data pertaining to our segment and geographic
    operations.


 




    
    



    
    (c) 

    
    Narrative
    Description of the Business





 


    We are one of the world’s largest providers of IT
    management software. We have a clear vision of how organizations
    can better manage all of their hardware, software, databases and
    applications to realize the full power of technology. We help
    customers close the gap between the promise of IT and what it
    actually delivers.


 


    Our EITM strategy for managing IT helps customers unify and
    simplify the management of heterogeneous business processes, IT
    services, applications, users and assets in a secure and
    automated way across the enterprise. As a result, customers can
    reduce cost, reduce risk, improve service and better align their
    IT to the needs of their organization.


 



    Growth
    Strategy


 


    To build our business, we are pursuing a four-part growth
    strategy:


 


    1. Internal Product Development



    
    6



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We have 5,800 engineers globally, designing and supporting
    software to extend our functionality and capabilities in the
    network and systems management, security and storage areas, and
    have charged approximately $0.7 billion to operations in
    each of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005, and
    2004.



 


     
        • 

    
    Development activities are tied directly to customer needs and
    our five business units. Please refer to
    “— Business Unit Structure” below for more
    information.





 


    2. Strengthening Channel Partner Relationships


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Channel partners are critical to our success. We need a broad
    base of channel partners to reach a wider range of customers. By
    developing strong relationships with systems integrators,
    distribution channel partners, value-added resellers (VARs) and
    original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), we extend CA technology
    to customers who otherwise wouldn’t have access to it.



 


     
        • 

    
    Distribution and OEM channel partners, referred to as
    “indirect” or “channel” partners, make up
    approximately 11% of our new deferred subscription
    value — a figure we believe we can grow.



 


     
        • 

    
    We characterize our channel partners in two ways:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Value — These channel partners sell CA solutions that
    require a high level of expertise to sell. In fiscal year 2006,
    we launched the Enterprise Solution Provider Program to recruit,
    train and educate VARs on CA products and solutions. Through
    this program, we have authorized approximately 800 channel
    partners worldwide to sell CA solutions and are now extending
    the program to global solutions providers who sell solutions to
    multi-national companies.



 


     
        • 

    
    Volume — These channel partners, who sell CA products
    that don’t require the same technical expertise to sell as
    enterprise solutions, are primarily geared toward small to
    medium-sized businesses (SMBs). We are focusing on the SMB
    market by evolving our products to keep them current and
    relevant, such as our Business Protection Suite, recruiting
    channel partners who know this segment, and increasing our
    marketing efforts.





 


    3. International Expansion


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We are enhancing our sales infrastructure in Asia Pacific and
    Latin America. In February 2006, we opened our new Asia
    Pacific & Japan headquarters in Hong Kong.



 


     
        • 

    
    We are also growing our India Technology Center (in Hyderabad);
    tapping an important talent pool in the Czech Republic (Prague)
    for mainframe development; and gaining important entree into
    fast-growing countries such as China.



 


     
        • 

    
    We use our Customer Interaction Centers in Tampa, Florida, and
    Barcelona, Spain, as our global channel and telemarketing
    sales-generators.





 


    4. Strategic Acquisitions


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We consider acquisitions that will support our EITM approach,
    extend our market position,
    and/or
    expand our geographic footprint.



 


     
        • 

    
    These acquisitions fill technology gaps in our portfolio,
    strengthen our position in core focus areas, and help round out
    our EITM offerings to better serve our customers. In fiscal year
    2006, we completed four significant acquisitions (see
    Note 2, “Acquisitions, Divestitures, and
    Restructuring”, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for more information).





 



    Business
    Unit Structure


 


    We have aligned our product development into five business
    units. Each business unit is led by a general manager who is
    accountable for the management and performance of their business
    unit, including product development and innovation, product
    marketing, quality, staffing, strategic planning and execution,
    and customer satisfaction. Our business units are Enterprise
    Systems Management, Security Management, Storage Management,
    Business Service Optimization, and the CA Products Group. This
    structure allows us to become more closely aligned with our



    
    7



Table of Contents




    customers’ needs, drive more accountability for the
    performance of each software area, and to be more responsive to
    the changing dynamics of the IT management software marketplace.
    We do not presently maintain profit and loss data on a business
    unit basis, and therefore they are not considered business
    segments.


 



    Enterprise
    Systems Management


 


    Our products for Enterprise Systems Management optimize the
    availability and performance of IT assets and provide a
    complete, integrated and open solution for policy-driven,
    dynamic IT management. This means customers can manage their IT
    resources in a way that allows them to be more flexible in
    responding to changing business dynamics. Our comprehensive set
    of solutions is built on a framework of common services so the
    solutions work together to simplify the complexity present in
    medium to large enterprises, telecommunications service
    providers and public sector organizations.


 


    Our Enterprise Systems Management products manage assets and
    processes across the entire IT environment including networks,
    servers, storage, databases, applications and desktops or client
    devices, on both mainframe and distributed platforms. We offer
    our Enterprise Systems Management solutions in the following
    three categories:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Service Availability — these products monitor and
    optimize the health, availability and performance of the
    infrastructure and the technologies critical to our
    customer’s business operations to make sure they are always
    up and running.



 


     
        • 

    
    Resource Optimization — these products, which include
    configuration management, provisioning and capacity management,
    provision assets dynamically according to business priorities or
    consumption rates, and help customers make sure they maximize
    their IT resources.



 


     
        • 

    
    Process Automation — these products, which include
    workload automation, automate tedious or error-prone manual
    procedures to reduce infrastructure downtime and allow customers
    to redeploy their valuable IT resources in more strategic ways.





 


    The acquisition of Concord significantly strengthened our
    network management offering. The acquisition of Wily gave us an
    important added depth in application management. Both further
    augment our comprehensive Enterprise Systems Management
    portfolio.


 



    Security
    Management


 


    Our solutions for Security Management provide an innovative and
    comprehensive approach to IT security. Our products protect
    information assets and resources; provide appropriate system and
    information access to employees, customers and channel partners;
    and centrally manage security-related administration. We offer
    Security Management products in the following three categories:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Identity and Access Management — these products
    empower IT organizations to manage growing internal and external
    user populations, secure an increasingly complex array of
    resources and services and comply with critical regulatory
    mandates.



 


     
        • 

    
    Threat Management — these products are designed to
    help customers identify and eliminate internal and external
    threats such as harmful computer viruses and security weaknesses
    associated with operating systems, databases, networks and
    passwords.



 


     
        • 

    
    Security Information Management — these products help
    to integrate and prioritize security information created by CA
    and third-party security products, enable customers to increase
    operational efficiencies, help ensure business continuity, help
    customers adhere to regulatory compliance, and mitigate risks.





 



    Storage
    Management


 


    Our Storage Management solutions simplify the protection and
    management of business information, data and storage resources
    to support business priorities. Customers use our solutions to
    proactively optimize storage



    
    8



Table of Contents




    operations and infrastructure — achieving operational
    efficiencies, risk mitigation, compliance, business flexibility
    and investment protection. We offer Storage Management solutions
    in the following four categories:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Recovery Management — these solutions help customers
    mitigate risk and improve business continuity in a
    cost-effective manner by providing backup/recovery, tape and
    media management, and high-availability solutions.



 


     
        • 

    
    Resource Management — these solutions help customers
    achieve operational efficiency and gain business flexibility.
    They enable customers to identify information, data and storage
    resources; monitor the storage environment; classify data,
    information and resources based on their value to the business;
    and define and automate storage processes.



 


     
        • 

    
    Information Management — these solutions help
    customers address compliance issues as they pertain to message
    management, discovery and archive requirements, and extend the
    data lifecycle to align with corporate governance and business
    requirements.



 


     
        • 

    
    Mainframe — these solutions offer an integrated,
    intelligent enterprise-wide storage management approach enabling
    z/OS-centric businesses to reduce costs, mitigate risks and
    align business requirements with IT.





 


    Our storage management and data availability solutions support
    networks, systems, servers, operating systems, desktops,
    databases, applications, arrays, and tape libraries across
    mainframe and distributed environments. The acquisition of
    iLumin strengthened our capabilities in information management.


 



    Business
    Service Optimization


 


    Our solutions for Business Service Optimization help
    organizations manage their IT investments. These products help
    translate business needs into IT requirements; provide
    visibility into the services being delivered and the cost of
    delivering those services; enable more effective management of
    an IT organization’s people, processes, and assets; and
    help our customers make informed decisions about issues such as
    investment priorities and outsourcing. We offer Business Service
    Optimization products in the following four categories:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Business Process Management — these solutions help
    companies reduce costs and mitigate risk by achieving process
    efficiency and agility through automation and the understanding
    and management of IT and business processes and policies.



 


     
        • 

    
    Service Management — these solutions enable IT and
    business alignment by defining IT service offerings in business
    terms, provisioning, supporting, and allocating costs for these
    service offerings, improving service levels, and managing change.



 


     
        • 

    
    Asset Management — these solutions help organizations
    control costs, improve process efficiencies and maximize their
    return on investments by managing the technical and business
    aspects of hardware and software from procurement through
    disposal.



 


     
        • 

    
    IT Governance — these solutions help assure
    operational excellence by linking IT decisions with business
    objectives; providing strong financial control, optimizing IT
    resources and assets, and controlling software changes. The
    acquisition of Niku significantly strengthened our IT governance
    offering.





 



    CA
    Products Group


 


    In addition to our leadership offerings in the above areas, we
    also offer products that address other aspects of the IT
    environment. This diverse group of solutions includes products
    that deliver value throughout the IT spectrum, grouped in the
    following four categories.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Database Management systems — these solutions
    enable reliable management of large data and transaction
    volumes, exploit advances in database technology, and integrate
    these information stores to distributed and web-based business
    needs, leveraging database process integrity across the
    enterprise.






    
    9



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Application Development systems — these solutions
    enable customers to build custom business applications in a
    variety of environments using technology-neutral business
    process definitions, and to test and deploy those applications
    across an evolving IT infrastructure.



 


     
        • 

    
    Enterprise Reporting and Information Management
    systems — these solutions enable customers to
    efficiently and rapidly report on and process business
    information.



 


     
        • 

    
    Other solutions — these solutions include a wide
    variety of tools and utilities to optimize the IT environment.





 



    Office of
    the CTO


 


    The Office of the CTO drives technology strategy across all of
    the business units and leads research and development for
    emerging technologies.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Common Technologies — our Foundation Services and
    Management Database are technologies common across CA products
    that enable our products to work together easily and also to
    work with other vendors’ management software products to
    deliver an IT environment that is simpler, more secure, less
    costly to maintain, and more agile.



 


     
        • 

    
    Research — CA Labs drives research in advanced
    technologies related to management and security by performing
    research internally and working with major universities and
    standard setting bodies. Current areas of focus include securing
    and managing on-demand computing, grids, virtualized
    environments, and service-oriented architectures.



 


     
        • 

    
    Emerging Technology Incubator — the Office of the CTO
    also runs incubator projects to create and bring to market
    management and security solutions that enable customer adoption
    of new technologies. Current incubation projects focus on
    management of wireless networks, smart phones, and radio
    frequency identification technologies.



 


     
        • 

    
    Architecture — the Office of the CTO is chartered with
    ensuring that all CA products are implemented according to a
    proven and consistent technical architecture. Consistent
    architecture accelerates our support for key industry advances,
    such as the evolution of Service Oriented Architectures and Grid
    Computing and Virtualization. Having unified technical
    architecture also promotes greater product quality and
    integration while lowering development costs.





 



    Technological
    Expertise


 


    Certain aspects of our products and technology are proprietary.
    We rely on U.S. and foreign intellectual property laws,
    including patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws to
    protect our proprietary rights. As of March 31, 2006, we
    have received approximately 600 patents worldwide and
    approximately 1,900 patent applications are pending worldwide
    for our technology. However, the extent and duration of
    protection given to different types of intellectual property
    rights vary under different countries’ legal systems.
    Generally, our U.S. and foreign patents expire at various times
    over the next twenty years. While the durations of our patents
    vary, we believe that the durations of our patents are adequate.
    The expiration of any of our patents will not have a material
    adverse effect on our business. In some countries, full-scale
    intellectual property protection for our products and technology
    may be unavailable,
    and/or the
    laws of other jurisdictions may not protect our proprietary
    technology rights to the same extent as the laws of the United
    States. We also maintain contractual restrictions in our
    agreements with customers, employees, and others to protect our
    intellectual property rights. In addition, we occasionally
    license software and technology from third parties, including
    some competitors, and incorporate them into our own software
    products.


 


    The source code for our products is protected both as trade
    secrets and as copyrighted works. Some of our customers are
    beneficiaries of a source code escrow arrangement that enables
    the customer to obtain a contingent, future-limited right to
    access our source code. If our source code is accessed, the
    likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our
    intellectual property may increase.


 


    We are not aware that our products or technologies infringe on
    the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties, however,
    may assert infringement claims against us with respect to our
    products, and any such assertion may require us to enter into
    royalty arrangements or result in costly and time-consuming
    litigation. Although we have a number



    
    10



Table of Contents




    of U.S. and foreign patents and pending applications that may
    have value to various aspects of our products and technology, we
    are not aware of any single patent that is essential to us or to
    any of our principal business product areas.


 


    We continue to invest extensively in product development and
    enhancements. We anticipate that we will continue to adapt our
    software products to the rapid changes in the computer industry
    and will continue to enhance our products to help them remain
    compatible with hardware changes. We expect that we will
    continue to be able to improve our software products to work
    with the latest hardware platforms and operating systems.


 


    To keep CA on top of major technological advances and to ensure
    our products continue to work well with those of other vendors,
    CA is active in every major standards organization and takes the
    lead in many. Further, CA was the first major software company
    to earn the International Organization for
    Standardization’s (ISO) 9001:2000 Global Certification, the
    ultimate ISO certification.


 


    In addition, CA has built a strong global product development
    staff in Australia, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany,
    India, Israel, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
    Our technological efforts around the world ensure we maintain a
    global perspective of customer needs while cost-effectively
    tapping the skills and talents of developers worldwide, and
    enable us to efficiently and effectively deliver support to CA
    customers.


 


    In the United States, product development is primarily performed
    at our facilities in Brisbane/Redwood City, California;
    San Diego, California; Lisle, Illinois; Framingham,
    Massachusetts; Mount Laurel, New Jersey; Islandia, New York;
    Plano, Texas; and Herndon, Virginia.


 


    For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    the costs of product development and enhancements, including
    related support, charged to operations were $697 million,
    $708 million, and $703 million, respectively. In
    fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, we capitalized costs of
    $84 million, $70 million, and $44 million,
    respectively, for internally developed software. The increase in
    capitalized costs for fiscal year 2006 as compared with fiscal
    year 2005 was principally related to an increase in capitalized
    development costs for our Unicenter r11 and BrightStor products.


 



    Customers


 


    No individual customer accounted for a material portion of our
    revenue during any of the past three fiscal years, or a material
    portion of the license contract value that has not yet been
    earned (deferred subscription value) reported at the end of any
    period in the past three fiscal years. At March 31, 2006,
    five customers accounted for approximately 71% of our
    outstanding prior business model net receivables, including one
    customer with a license arrangement that extends through fiscal
    year 2012 with a net unbilled receivable balance in excess of
    $400 million. The majority of our software products are
    used with relatively expensive computer hardware. As a result,
    most of our revenue is generated from customers who have the
    ability to make substantial commitments to software and hardware
    implementations. Our software products are used in a broad range
    of industries, businesses, and applications. Our customers
    include manufacturers, technology companies, retailers, banks,
    insurance companies, other financial services providers,
    educational institutions, health care institutions, and
    governmental agencies.


 


    We have a large and broad base of customers. We currently serve
    companies across every major industry worldwide, as well as
    government and educational institutions. When customers enter
    into a software license agreement with us, they often pay for
    the right to use our software for a specified period of time.
    When the terms of these agreements expire, the customer must
    either renew the license agreement or pay usage and maintenance
    fees, if applicable, for the right to continue to use our
    software and receive support. We believe that our flexible
    business model allows us to maintain our customer base while
    allowing us the opportunity to cross-sell new software products
    and services to them.


 



    Customer
    Satisfaction and Support


 


    Customer satisfaction is important to CA. We tie a portion of
    individual compensation for approximately 700 senior CA managers
    to our customers’ satisfaction, which we measure through
    independent surveys. The goal of CA



    
    11



Table of Contents




    Technical Support is to provide our customers with industry
    leading support. We support our customers in the following ways:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    CA Technical Support — staffed with a highly skilled
    customer response team, we manage more than 70 Technical Support
    centers in over 25 countries providing quality support online or
    over the telephone regardless of customer location or language.



 


     
        • 

    
    SupportConnect — to help fully meet the needs of our
    customers, we provide online self-service resources. More than
    190,000 customers use these resources to review their account
    information, research technical information, open and maintain
    incident reports, order and download products, and much more.
    Automated self-service resources are convenient to our customers
    and are a means of controlling costs for CA.



 


     
        • 

    
    Support Availability Management (SAM) — supporting our
    customers sometimes requires a “personal touch.” This
    service provides our customers with access to Support
    Availability Managers with specialized skills in accessing
    information and resolving issues at a site level.



 


     
        • 

    
    Channel Partners Support Program — in line with
    CA’s drive to increase our channel partner presence and
    sales, we believe CA channel partners should receive one of the
    best technical support programs in the industry.





 


    We believe that our dedicated staff, online services,
    segment-specific offerings, SAMs and channel partners support
    program not only protect and enhance customer satisfaction today
    but also maintain customer loyalty to grow CA in the future.


 



    Business
    Model


 


    Customers face challenges when trying to achieve their desired
    returns on software investments. These challenges are compounded
    by traditional software pricing models that often force
    companies to make long-term commitments for projected
    capacities. When these projections are inaccurate, the desired
    returns on investment may not be achieved. Many companies are
    also concerned that, due to short product life cycles for some
    software products, new products may become available before the
    end of their current software license agreement periods. In
    addition, some companies, particularly those in new or evolving
    industries, want pricing structures that are linked to the
    growth of their businesses to minimize the risks of
    overestimating capacity projections.


 


    We believe we can service our customers better by offering more
    flexible licensing terms to help our customers realize maximum
    value from their software investments. In October 2000, we
    formalized this philosophy and refer to it as our business model.


 


    Our business model offers customers a wide range of purchasing
    and payment options. Our flexible licensing terms allow
    customers to license our software products for relatively short
    periods of time, including on a monthly basis. Through these
    flexible licensing agreements, customers can evaluate whether
    our software meets their needs before making larger commitments.
    As customers become more comfortable with their software
    investments, they typically license our software for longer
    terms, generally up to three years.


 


    Some customers prefer to choose cost certainty and sign
    longer-term agreements. Under our flexible licensing terms,
    customers can license our software products under multi-year
    licenses, and most customers choose terms of one to three years,
    although longer terms are sometimes selected. We provide our
    customers with the option to change their product mix after an
    initial period of time to mitigate their risks. We also help
    customers reduce uncertainty by providing a standard pricing
    schedule based on simple usage tiers.


 


    We also offer software licenses to customers based on the value
    created from our customers’ business processes by linking
    our pricing structure to the growth of our customers’
    businesses. For example, an airline company may choose to
    license our software based on the number of passenger miles
    flown during a defined period. Although this practice is not
    widely utilized by our customers, we believe this metric-based
    approach is unique in the software industry and can provide us
    with a competitive advantage.


 


    As a result of the flexible licensing terms we offer our
    customers, specifically the right to receive unspecified future
    upgrades for no additional fee, as well as maintenance included
    during the term of the license, we are required under



    
    12



Table of Contents




    generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of
    America to recognize revenue from our license agreements ratably
    over the license term. For a description of how ratable revenue
    recognition has impacted our financial results, refer to
    “Results of Operations” within Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations.”


 



    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    Our sales organization operates on a worldwide basis. We
    operate through branches and subsidiaries located in 46
    countries outside the United States. Each geographic territory
    offers all or most of our software products. Approximately 47%
    of our revenue in fiscal year 2006 was from operations outside
    of the United States. As of March 31, 2006, we had
    approximately 4,900 sales and sales support personnel.


 


    In addition, CA Technology
    Servicestm
    performs technology assessments, design, implementation and
    optimization, as well as ongoing maintenance, of our
    customers’ IT infrastructures. CA Technology Services
    leverages the best resources within CA as well as our channel
    partners to help customers apply the right types of activities
    necessary to ensure success.


 


    We also distribute, market, and support our software through a
    network of VARs, OEMs, distributors, and resellers. As noted
    earlier, one of our growth strategies is to strengthen these
    channel partner relationships and grow our indirect sales
    channel. We actively encourage VARs to market our software
    products. VARs often combine our software products with
    specialized consulting services and provide enhanced
    user-specific solutions to a particular market or sector.
    Facilities managers, including CSC, EDS, and IBM, often deliver
    IT services using our software products to companies that prefer
    to outsource their IT operations.


 



    Competition


 


    The markets in which we compete are marked by technological
    change, the steady emergence of new companies and products,
    evolving industry standards, and changing customer needs.
    Competitive differentiators include, but are not limited to:
    performance, quality, breadth of product group, integration of
    products, brand name recognition, price, functionality, customer
    support, frequency of upgrades and updates, manageability of
    products, and reputation.


 


    We compete with many established companies in the markets we
    serve. Some of these companies have substantially greater
    financial, marketing, and technological resources, larger
    distribution capabilities, earlier access to customers, and
    greater opportunity to address customers’ various
    information technology requirements than we do. These factors
    may provide our competitors with an advantage in penetrating
    markets with their products. We also compete with many smaller,
    less established companies that may be able to focus more
    effectively on specific product areas or markets. Because of the
    breadth of our product offerings, an individual competitor does
    not generally compete with us across all of our product areas.
    Some of our key competitors include BMC, Compuware, EMC, HP,
    IBM, Mercury Interactive and Symantec. We believe that we have a
    competitive advantage in the marketplace with the breadth and
    quality of our product offerings; our products’ hardware
    independence; and the ability to offer our solutions as product
    modules or as integrated suites, so that customers can use them
    at their own pace.


 



    Employees


 


    The table below sets forth the approximate number of employees
    by location and functional area as of March 31, 2006:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


    Employees as
    


 


 


 


 


    Employees as
    


 




 


 


    of March 31,
    


 


 


 


 


    of March 31,
    


 





    Location



 


    2006


 


 



    Functional Area



 


    2006


 



 





    Corporate headquarters
    



 


 


    2,200


 


 


    Product development and support
    


 


 


    5,800


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


    Sales and support
    


 


 


    4,900


 





    Other U.S. offices
    



 


 


    6,200


 


 


    Professional services
    


 


 


    1,400


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


    Information technology support,
    


 


 


 


 





    International offices
    



 


 


    7,600


 


 


    finance, and administration
    


 


 


    3,900


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total
    



 


 


    16,000


 


 


    Total
    


 


 


    16,000


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 









    
    13



Table of Contents




    As of March 31, 2006 and 2005, we had approximately 16,000
    and 15,300 employees, respectively. The increase was due to
    approximately 900 employees added from acquisitions and
    approximately 600 employees added primarily to our product
    development groups in North America and India. This increase in
    personnel was offset by the impact of the restructuring plan
    announced in the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, which
    included a workforce reduction of approximately 800 positions
    worldwide. We believe our employee relations are satisfactory.


 




    
    



    
    (d) 

    
    Financial
    Information About Geographic Areas





 


    Refer to Note 4, “Segment and Geographic
    Information”, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for financial data pertaining to our segment and
    geographic operations.


 




    
    



    
    (e) 

    
    Available
    Information





 


    Our website address is ca.com. All filings we make with
    the SEC, including our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    our Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    our Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and any amendments, are available for free on our website as
    soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or
    furnished to the SEC. Our SEC filings are available to be read
    or copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F
    Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding
    the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by
    calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    Our filings can also be obtained for free on the SEC’s
    Internet site at sec.gov. The reference to our website
    address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the
    information contained on the website in this Report or other
    filings with the SEC, and the information contained on the
    website is not part of this document.


 


    Our website also contains information about our initiatives in
    corporate governance, including: our corporate governance
    principles; information concerning our Board of Directors
    (including
    e-mail
    communication with them); our Business Practices Standard of
    Excellence: Our Code of Conduct (applicable to all of our
    employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief
    Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, and our
    directors); instructions for calling the CA Compliance and
    Ethics Helpline; information concerning our Board Committees,
    including the charters of the Audit and Compliance Committee,
    the Compensation and Human Resource Committee, the Corporate
    Governance Committee, and the Strategy Committee; information on
    the Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) we entered into in
    September 2004 as part of our settlement to resolve government
    investigations into past accounting practices including our
    progress under governance initiatives required under the DPA;
    and transactions in CA securities by directors and executive
    officers. These documents can also be obtained in print by
    writing to our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
    Corporate Secretary, Kenneth V. Handal, at the Company’s
    world headquarters in Islandia, New York, at the address listed
    on the cover of this
    Form 10-K.
    Refer to the Corporate Governance section in the Investors
    section of our website for details.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    Current and potential stockholders should consider carefully the
    risk factors described below. Any of these factors, or others,
    many of which are beyond our control, could negatively affect
    our revenue, profitability and cash flow.


 



    Our
    operating results and revenue are subject to fluctuations caused
    by many economic factors associated with our industry and the
    markets for our products which, in turn, may individually and
    collectively affect our revenue, profitability and cash flow in
    adverse and unpredictable ways.


 


    Quarterly and annual results of operations are affected by a
    number of factors, associated with our industry and the markets
    for our products, including those listed below, which in turn
    could adversely affect our revenue, profitability and cash flow
    in the future.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Timing and impact of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms
    and viruses);



 


     
        • 

    
    The rate of adoption of new product technologies and releases of
    new operating systems;



 


     
        • 

    
    Demand for products and services;



 


     
        • 

    
    Length of sales cycle;



 


     
        • 

    
    Customer difficulty in implementation of our products;






    
    14



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Magnitude of price and product
    and/or
    services competition;



 


     
        • 

    
    Introduction of new hardware;



 


     
        • 

    
    General economic conditions in countries in which customers do a
    substantial amount of business;



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in customer budgets for hardware, software and services;



 


     
        • 

    
    Ability to develop and introduce new or enhanced versions of our
    products;



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in foreign currency exchange rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    Ability to control costs;



 


     
        • 

    
    The number and terms and conditions of licensing transactions;



 


     
        • 

    
    Reorganizations of the sales and technical services forces;



 


     
        • 

    
    The results of litigation, including the government and internal
    investigations; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Ability to retain and attract qualified personnel.





 


    Any of the foregoing factors, among others, may cause our
    operating expenses to be disproportionately high, or cause our
    revenue and operating results to fluctuate. As a consequence,
    our business, financial condition, operating results and cash
    flow could be adversely affected. For a discussion of certain
    factors that could affect our cash flow in the future, for
    example, please see Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Sources and Uses of Cash.”


 



    The
    timing of orders from customers and channel partners may cause
    fluctuations in some of our key financial metrics which may
    impact our quarterly financial results and stock
    price.


 


    Historically, the vast majority of our license agreements are
    executed in the last week of a quarter. Any failure or delay in
    executing new or renewed license agreements in a given quarter
    could cause fluctuations in some of our key financial metrics
    (i.e. billings or cash flow), which may have a material adverse
    effect on our quarterly financial results. The uneven sales
    pattern also makes it difficult to predict future billings and
    cash flow for each period and, accordingly, increases the risk
    of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and
    financial condition. If we do not achieve our forecasted results
    for a particular period, our stock price could decline
    significantly.


 



    Given the
    global nature of our business, economic or political events
    beyond our control can affect our business in unpredictable
    ways.


 


    International revenue has historically represented a significant
    percentage of our total worldwide revenue. Continued success in
    selling our products outside the United States will depend on a
    variety of market and business factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Reorganizations of the sales and technical services workforce;



 


     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in foreign exchange currency rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    Staffing key managerial positions;



 


     
        • 

    
    The ability to successfully localize software products for a
    significant number of international markets;



 


     
        • 

    
    General economic conditions in foreign countries;



 


     
        • 

    
    Political stability; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Trade restrictions such as tariffs, duties or other controls
    affecting foreign operations.





 


    Any of the foregoing factors, among others, could adversely
    affect our business, financial condition, operating results and
    cash flow.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    We have
    entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with the
    U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New
    York (USAO) and a Final Consent Judgment with the SEC (the
    Consent Judgment) and if we violate either agreement we may be
    subject to, among other things, criminal prosecution or civil
    penalties which could adversely affect our credit ratings, stock
    price, ability to attract or retain employees and, therefore,
    our sales, revenue and client base.


 


    Our agreements with the USAO and the SEC resolve their
    investigations into certain of our past accounting practices,
    including our revenue recognition policies and procedures, and
    obstruction of their investigations, provided we comply with
    certain continuing requirements under these agreements. We
    describe some of these requirements below. (For more information
    about our agreements with the USAO and the SEC, see Note 7,
    “Commitments and Contingencies”, in the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements as well as our Current Report
    on
    Form 8-K
    filed on September 22, 2004.)


 



    The
    DPA


 


    If it is determined that we: deliberately gave false, incomplete
    or misleading information pursuant to the DPA; have committed
    any federal crimes subsequent to the DPA; or otherwise
    knowingly, intentionally and materially violated any provision
    of the DPA, we will be subject to prosecution for any federal
    criminal violation of which the USAO has knowledge. Any such
    prosecution may be based on information we have provided to the
    USAO, the SEC and other governmental agencies in connection with
    our cooperation under the DPA. This would include information
    provided because of our entry into the DPA that otherwise may
    not have been available to the USAO or may otherwise have been
    subject to privilege. Our continued cooperation with the USAO,
    the SEC and the Independent Examiner (see below) pursuant to the
    DPA and Consent Judgment may lead to the discovery of additional
    information regarding the conduct of the Company, including the
    conduct of members of former management in prior periods. We
    cannot predict the impact, if any, of any such information on
    our business, financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flow.


 



    The
    Consent Judgment


 


    Pursuant to the Consent Judgment, we are enjoined from violating
    a number of provisions of the federal securities laws. Any
    further violation of these laws could result in civil remedies,
    including sanctions, fines and penalties, which may be far more
    severe than if the violation had occurred without the Consent
    Judgment being in place. Additionally, if we breach the terms of
    the Consent Judgment, the SEC may petition the Court to vacate
    the Consent Judgment and restore the SEC’s original action
    to the active docket for all purposes. If the action were
    restored, the SEC could use information in the action that we
    have provided to the USAO, the SEC and other governmental
    agencies in connection with our cooperation under the Consent
    Judgment. This would include information provided because of our
    entry into the Consent Judgment that otherwise may not have been
    available to the SEC or may otherwise have been subject to
    privilege.


 



    General


 


    Under both the DPA and the Consent Judgment, we are obligated to
    undertake a number of internal reforms including but not limited
    to: adding new management and independent directors;
    establishing a Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors
    and an executive disclosure committee; establishing new
    comprehensive records management policies; taking steps to
    implement best practices regarding recognition of software
    license revenue; establishing a comprehensive compliance and
    ethics program; reorganizing our Finance and Internal Audit
    Departments; establishing a plan to improve communication with
    government agencies engaged in inquiries or investigations
    relating to the Company; enhancing our hotline for employees to
    report potential violations of the law or other misconduct; and
    agreeing to the appointment of an Independent Examiner, who is
    serving a term of 18 months (subject to extension by the
    USAO and the SEC) and is examining our practices and began
    issuing reports on such practices to the USAO, the SEC and our
    Board of Directors beginning in September 2005 and has and will
    continue to do so quarterly thereafter (for more information
    about the Independent Examiner and the potential extension of
    this term, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation — Significant Business Events”). We
    have taken many steps to carry out these internal reforms (for
    more information about our reforms, see Note 7,
    “Commitments and Contingencies”, in the Notes to the
    Consolidated



    
    16



Table of Contents




    Financial Statements). In the short-term, we cannot gauge what
    impact, if any, the adoption of these reforms (including the
    reports of the Independent Examiner) may have on our business,
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flow or any
    diversion of management attention and employee resources from
    core business functions or opportunities that may result.


 


    If it were determined that we breached the terms of the DPA or
    the Consent Judgment, we cannot predict the scope, timing or
    outcome of the actions that would be taken by the USAO or the
    SEC. These actions could include the institution of
    administrative, civil injunctive or criminal proceedings, the
    imposition of fines and penalties, which may be significant,
    suspensions or debarments from government product
    and/or
    services contracts, and other remedies and sanctions, any of
    which could lead to an adverse impact on our credit ratings and
    ability to obtain financing, an adverse impact on our stock
    price, loss of additional senior management, the inability to
    attract or retain key employees and the loss of customers. In
    addition, our employees could potentially commit illegal acts
    which, under the law, may be ascribed to us under certain
    circumstances. We cannot predict what impact, if any, these
    matters may have on our business, financial condition, results
    of operations and cash flow.


 


    Moreover, under both the DPA and the Consent Judgment, we are
    obligated to cooperate with the government in its ongoing
    investigations of past conduct. While we do not anticipate any
    further material adjustments to our financial statements for
    completed periods arising from those investigations, the
    processes described above have not been fully completed and we
    may be required to take additional remedial measures.


 



    Changes
    to compensation of our sales organization could adversely affect
    our business, financial condition, operating results and cash
    flow.


 


    We may update our compensation plans for the sales organization
    from time to time in order to align the sales force with the
    Company’s economic interests. Under the terms of the sales
    compensation agreements, management seeks to retain broad
    discretion to change or modify various aspects of the plan such
    as quotas or territory assignments. The ability to exercise this
    discretion is governed by the laws of numerous countries and
    states within the U.S. in which CA operates. Where CA does
    exercise such discretion, the changes may lead to outcomes that
    are not anticipated or intended and may impact our cost of doing
    business
    and/or
    employee morale, all of which could adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.
    We modified our commission plans for fiscal year 2006 which led
    to substantial unforeseen expenses. The commission plans for
    fiscal year 2007, while revised, continue to be reviewed and may
    be subject to risks similar to those identified above. See
    Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, for how
    changes made to the commission plan for fiscal year 2006
    impacted results. Refer to Item 9A, “Controls and
    Procedures”, for additional information relating to the
    Company’s identification of a material weakness associated
    with sales commissions for fiscal year 2006.


 



    Failure
    to expand our channel partner programs related to the sale of CA
    solutions may result in lost sales opportunities, increases in
    expenses and weakening in our competitive position.


 


    We sell CA solutions through system integrators and value-added
    resellers in channel partner programs that require training and
    expertise to sell these solutions, and global penetration to
    grow these aspects of our business. The failure to expand these
    channel partner programs and penetrate these markets may
    adversely impact our success with channel partners, resulting in
    lost sales opportunities and an increase in expenses, as well as
    weaken our competitive position.


 



    If we do
    not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and
    managerial systems and processes, including the successful
    implementation of our enterprise resource planning software from
    SAP AG, our ability to manage and grow our business may be
    harmed.


 


    Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and
    comply with regulations requires effective planning and
    management systems and processes. We will need to continue to
    improve existing and implement new operational and financial
    systems, procedures and controls to manage our business
    effectively in the future. As a result, we have licensed
    enterprise resource planning (ERP) software from SAP AG and have
    begun a process to expand and upgrade our operational and
    financial systems. Phase one of the implementation was completed
    in April 2006 and



    
    17



Table of Contents




    included operating activities in North America and worldwide
    human resources. Any delay in the implementation of, or
    disruption in the transition to, our new or enhanced systems,
    procedures or internal controls, could adversely affect our
    ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply
    chain, achieve accuracy in the conversion of electronic data and
    records, and report financial and management information,
    including the filing of our quarterly or annual reports with the
    SEC, on a timely and accurate basis. As a result of the
    conversion from prior systems and processes, data integrity
    problems may be discovered that if not corrected could impact
    our business or financial results. In addition, as we add
    functionality to the ERP software and complete implementations
    in other geographic regions, new issues could arise that we have
    not foreseen. Such issues could adversely affect our ability to
    do, among other things, the following in a timely manner:
    provide quotes; take customer orders; ship products; provide
    services and support to our customers; bill and track our
    customers; fulfill contractual obligations; and otherwise run
    our business. Failure to properly or adequately address these
    issues could result in the diversion of management’s
    attention and resources, impact our ability to manage our
    business and negatively impact our results of operations, cash
    flows and stock price.


 


    We may encounter difficulties in successfully integrating
    companies and products that we have acquired or may acquire into
    our existing business and, therefore, such failed integration
    may adversely affect our infrastructure, market presence,
    results of operations and stock price.


 


    We have in the past and expect in the future to acquire
    complementary companies, products, services and technologies.
    The risks we may encounter include: we may find that the
    acquired company or assets do not further improve our financial
    and strategic position as planned; we may have difficulty
    integrating the operations, personnel and commission plans of
    the acquired business; we may have difficulty forecasting or
    reporting results subsequent to acquisitions; we may have
    difficulty retaining the technical skills needed to provide
    services on the acquired products; we may have difficulty
    incorporating the acquired technologies or products with our
    existing product lines; we may have product liability, customer
    liability or intellectual property liability associated with the
    sale of the acquired company’s products; our ongoing
    business may be disrupted by transition or integration issues;
    our management’s attention may be diverted from other
    business concerns; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals
    from governmental authorities under applicable competition and
    antitrust laws; we may have difficulty maintaining uniform
    standards, controls, procedures and policies; our relationships
    with current and new employees, customers and distributors could
    be impaired; the acquisition may result in increased litigation
    risk, including litigation from terminated employees or third
    parties; and our due diligence process may fail to identify
    significant issues with the target company’s product
    quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices, internal
    control deficiencies, including material weaknesses, product
    architecture, legal contingencies and other matters. These
    factors could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations, financial condition or cash flows,
    particularly in the case of a large acquisition or number of
    acquisitions. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other
    rights to purchase stock, including options, to pay for
    acquisitions, existing stockholders’ interests may be
    diluted and earnings per share may decrease.


 


    We are subject to intense competition in product and service
    offerings and pricing, and we expect to face increased
    competition in the future, which could hinder our ability to
    attract and retain employees and diminish demand for our
    products and, therefore, reduce our sales, revenue and market
    presence.


 


    The markets for our products are intensely competitive, and we
    expect product and service offerings and pricing competition to
    increase. Some of our competitors have longer operating
    histories, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of
    customers in any particular market niche, larger technical
    staffs, established relationships with hardware vendors
    and/or
    greater financial, technical and marketing resources.
    Competitors for our various products include large technology
    companies. We also face competition from numerous smaller
    companies that specialize in specific aspects of the highly
    fragmented software industry and shareware authors that may
    develop competing products. In addition, new companies enter the
    market on a frequent and regular basis, offering products that
    compete with those offered by us. Moreover, many customers
    historically have developed their own products that compete with
    those offered by us. The competition may affect our ability to
    attract and retain the technical skills needed to provide
    services to our customers, forcing us to become more reliant on
    delivery of services through third parties. This, in turn, could
    increase operating costs and decrease our revenue, profitability
    and cash flow.



    
    18



Table of Contents




    Additionally, competition from any of these sources can result
    in price reductions or displacement of our products, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.


 


    Our competitors include large vendors of hardware or operating
    system software. The widespread inclusion of products that
    perform the same or similar functions as our products bundled
    within computer hardware or other companies’ software
    products could reduce the perceived need for our products and
    services, or render our products obsolete and unmarketable.
    Furthermore, even if these incorporated products are inferior or
    more limited than our products, customers may elect to accept
    the incorporated products rather than purchase our products. In
    addition, the software industry is currently undergoing
    consolidation as software companies seek to offer more extensive
    suites and broader arrays of software products, as well as
    integrated software and hardware solutions. This consolidation
    may negatively impact our competitive position, which could
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating
    results and cash flow. Refer to Item 1,
    “Business — (c) Narrative Description of the
    Business — Competition”, for additional
    information.


 


    Failure to adapt to technological change in a timely manner
    could adversely affect our revenues and earnings.


 


    If we fail to keep pace with technological change in our
    industry, such failure would have an adverse effect on our
    revenues and earnings. We operate in a highly competitive
    industry characterized by rapid technological change, evolving
    industry standards, changes in customer requirements and
    frequent new product introductions and enhancements. During the
    past several years, many new technological advancements and
    competing products entered the marketplace. The distributed
    systems and application management markets in which we operate
    are far more crowded and competitive than our traditional
    mainframe systems management markets. Our ability to compete
    effectively and our growth prospects depend upon many factors,
    including the success of our existing distributed systems
    products, the timely introduction and success of future software
    products, and the ability of our products to interoperate and
    perform well with existing and future leading databases and
    other platforms supported by our products. We have experienced
    long development cycles and product delays in the past,
    particularly with some of our distributed systems products, and
    expect to have delays in the future. In addition, we have
    incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant research
    and development costs, as we introduce new products. If there
    are delays in new product introductions or
    less-than-anticipated
    market acceptance of these new products, we will have invested
    substantial resources without realizing adequate revenues in
    return, and our revenues and earnings could be adversely
    affected.


 


    If our products do not remain compatible with ever-changing
    operating environments we could lose customers and the demand
    for our products and services could decrease, which would
    negatively impact sales and revenue.


 


    IBM, HP, Sun Microsystems, EMC and Microsoft are the largest
    suppliers of systems and computing software and, in most cases,
    are the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems used by
    most of our customers. Historically, these operating system
    developers have modified or introduced new operating systems,
    systems software and computer hardware. Such new products could,
    in the future, incorporate features that perform functions
    currently performed by our products, or could require
    substantial modification of our products to maintain
    compatibility with these companies’ hardware or software.
    Although we have to date been able to adapt our products and our
    business to changes introduced by hardware manufacturers and
    system software developers, there can be no assurance that we
    will be able to do so in the future. Failure to adapt our
    products in a timely manner to such changes or customer
    decisions to forego the use of our products in favor of those
    with comparable functionality contained either in the hardware
    or operating system could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 


    Certain software that we use in daily operations is licensed
    from third parties and thus may not be available to us in the
    future, which has the potential to delay product development and
    production and, therefore, could adversely affect our revenues
    and profits.


 


    Some of our products contain software licensed from third
    parties. Some of these licenses may not be available to us in
    the future on terms that are acceptable to us or allow our
    products to remain competitive. The loss of these licenses or
    the inability to maintain any of them on commercially acceptable
    terms could delay development of



    
    19



Table of Contents




    future products or the enhancement of existing products. We may
    also choose to pay a premium price for such a license in certain
    circumstances where continuity of the product would outweigh the
    premium cost of the license. We do not consider the revenue from
    products using software licensed from third parties to be
    material. However, there can be no assurance that, at a given
    point of time, any of the above will not have an adverse impact
    on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash
    flow.


 



    Certain
    software we use is from open source code sources which under
    certain circumstances may lead to increased costs and,
    therefore, decreased cash flow.


 


    Some of our products contain software from open source code
    sources. The use of such open source code may subject us to
    certain conditions, including the obligation to offer our
    products that use open source code for no cost. We monitor our
    use of such open source code to avoid subjecting our products to
    conditions we do not intend. However, the use of such open
    source code may ultimately subject some of our products to
    unintended conditions so that we are required to take remedial
    action that may divert resources away from our development
    efforts. We believe that the use of such open source code will
    not have a significant impact on our operations and that our
    products will be viable after any remediation efforts. However,
    there can be no assurance that future conditions involving such
    open source code will not have an adverse impact on our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Discovery
    of errors in our software could adversely affect our revenues
    and earnings and subject us to product liability claims, which
    may be costly and time consuming.


 


    The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite
    testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors
    will not be found in current versions, new versions or
    enhancements of our products after commencement of commercial
    shipments. If new or existing customers have difficulty
    deploying our products or require significant amounts of
    customer support, our operating margins could be adversely
    affected. Moreover, we could face possible claims and higher
    development costs if our software contains undetected errors or
    if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations. Significant
    technical challenges also arise with our products because our
    customers purchase and deploy our products across a variety of
    computer platforms and integrate them with a number of
    third-party software applications and databases. These
    combinations increase our risk further because in the event of a
    system-wide failure, it may be difficult to determine which
    product is at fault; thus, we may be harmed by the failure of
    another supplier’s products. As a result of the foregoing,
    we could experience:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Loss of or delay in revenues and loss of market share;



 


     
        • 

    
    Loss of customers, including the inability to do repeat business
    with existing key customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    Damage to our reputation;



 


     
        • 

    
    Failure to achieve market acceptance;



 


     
        • 

    
    Diversion of development resources;



 


     
        • 

    
    Increased service and warranty costs;



 


     
        • 

    
    Legal actions by customers against us which could, whether or
    not successful, increase costs and distract our management;



 


     
        • 

    
    Increased insurance costs; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Failure to successfully complete service engagements for product
    installations and implementations.





 


    In addition, a product liability claim, whether or not
    successful, could be time-consuming and costly and thus could
    have a material adverse affect on our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.



    
    20



Table of Contents





    Our
    credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded
    further which would require us to pay additional interest under
    our credit agreement and could adversely affect our ability to
    borrow in the future.


 


    Subsequent to the announcement of our delayed filing of the
    Form 10-K
    beyond its extended due date of June 29, 2006 and our
    $2 billion stock buy back program, Moody’s Investor
    Service (Moody’s) placed the Ba1 ratings of our senior
    unsecured notes under review for possible downgrade, Standard
    and Poor’s (S&P) lowered its ratings to BB and placed
    our senior unsecured notes on CreditWatch with negative
    implications, and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) downgraded our rating to
    BB+ with negative outlook.


 


    Moody’s, S&P, Fitch or any other credit rating agency
    may further downgrade or take other negative action with respect
    to our credit ratings in the future. If our credit ratings are
    further downgraded or other negative action is taken, we would
    be required to, among other things, pay additional interest
    under our credit agreement, if it is utilized. Any downgrades
    could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the
    future and may affect the terms of any such financing. This
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    We have a
    significant amount of debt and failure to generate sufficient
    cash as our debt becomes due or to renew credit lines prior to
    their expiration may adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.


 


    As of March 31, 2006, we had approximately
    $1.81 billion of debt outstanding, consisting of unsecured
    fixed-rate senior note obligations and convertible senior notes.
    Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Contractual Obligations and
    Commitments”, for the payment schedule of our long-term
    debt obligations, inclusive of interest. We expect that existing
    cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided
    from operations and our bank credit facilities will be
    sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. However, failure
    to generate sufficient cash as our debt becomes due or to renew
    credit lines prior to their expiration may adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Failure
    to protect our intellectual property rights would weaken our
    competitive position.


 


    Our future success is highly dependent upon our proprietary
    technology, including our software. Failure to protect such
    technology could lead to our loss of valuable assets and
    competitive advantage. We protect our proprietary information
    through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret
    laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions.
    Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our proprietary rights,
    policing unauthorized use or copying of our proprietary
    information is difficult. Unauthorized use or copying occurs
    from time to time and litigation to enforce intellectual
    property rights could result in significant costs and diversion
    of resources. Moreover, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions
    do not afford the same degree of protection to our proprietary
    rights as do the laws of the United States. For example, we rely
    on “shrink-wrap” or “click-on” licenses
    which may be unenforceable in whole or in part in some
    jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition, patents we have
    obtained may be circumvented, challenged, invalidated or
    designed around by other companies. If we do not adequately
    protect our intellectual property for these or other reasons our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow
    could be adversely affected. Refer to “Item 1,
    Business — (c) Narrative Description of the
    Business — Technological Expertise”, for
    additional information.


 



    We may
    become dependent upon large transactions and the failure to
    close such transactions could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 


    We have historically been dependent upon large-dollar enterprise
    transactions with individual customers. As a result of the
    flexibility afforded by our business model, we anticipate that
    there will be fewer of these transactions in the future. There
    can be no assurances, however, that we will not be reliant on
    large-dollar enterprise transactions in the future, and the
    failure to close such transactions could adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.



    
    21



Table of Contents





    Our
    customers’ data centers and IT environments may be subject
    to hacking or other breaches, harming the market perception of
    the effectiveness of our products.


 


    If an actual or perceived breach of our customers’ network
    security occurs, allowing access to our customers’ data
    centers or other parts of their IT environments, regardless of
    whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market
    perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed.
    Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or
    sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized
    until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate
    these techniques. Alleviating any of these problems could
    require significant expenditures of our capital and diversion of
    our resources from development efforts. Additionally, these
    efforts could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our
    product licensing, or modification of our software, which could
    cause us to lose existing or potential customers, adversely
    affecting our business, financial condition, operating results
    and cash flow.


 



    Our
    software products, data centers and IT environments may be
    subject to hacking or other breaches, harming the market
    perception of the effectiveness of our products.


 


    Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to
    prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing
    target of attacks specifically designed to impede the
    performance of our products. Similarly, experienced computer
    programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network
    security or the security of our data centers and IT environments
    and misappropriate proprietary information or cause
    interruptions of our services. If these intentionally disruptive
    efforts are successful, our activities could be adversely
    affected, our reputation and future sales could be harmed and
    our business, financial condition, operating results and cash
    flow could be adversely affected.


 



    General
    economic conditions may lead our customers to delay or forgo
    technology upgrades which could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 


    Our products are designed to improve the productivity and
    efficiency of our customers’ information processing
    resources. However, a general slowdown in the world economy or a
    particular region, particularly with respect to discretionary
    spending for software, could cause customers to delay or forgo
    decisions to license new products, to upgrade their existing
    environments or to acquire services, which could adversely
    affect our business, financial condition, operating results and
    cash flow.


 



    The use
    of third-party microcode could negatively impact our product
    development.


 


    We anticipate ongoing use of microcode or firmware provided by
    hardware manufacturers. Microcode and firmware are essentially
    software programs embedded in hardware and are, therefore, less
    flexible than other types of software. We believe that such
    continued use will not have a significant impact on our
    operations and that our products will remain compatible with any
    changes to such code. However, there can be no assurance that
    future technological developments involving such microcode will
    not have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition,
    operating results and cash flow.


 



    We may
    lose access to third-party operating systems which would
    adversely affect future product development.


 


    In the past, certain of our licensees using proprietary
    operating systems were furnished with “source code”,
    which makes the operating system understandable to programmers;
    “object code”, which directly controls the hardware;
    and other technical documentation. Since the availability of
    source code facilitated the development of systems and
    applications software, which must interface with the operating
    systems, independent software vendors, such as us, were able to
    develop and market compatible software. Microsoft, IBM and other
    vendors have a policy of restricting the use or availability of
    the source code for some of their operating systems. To date,
    this policy has not had a material effect on us. Some companies,
    however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or
    impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These
    restrictions may, in the future, result in higher research and
    development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and
    modification of our existing products and the development of new
    products. Although we do not expect that such restrictions will
    have this adverse effect, there



    
    22



Table of Contents




    can be no assurances that such restrictions or other
    restrictions will not have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    The
    markets for some or all of our key product areas may not
    grow.


 


    Our products are aligned by software business unit. Our business
    units consist of Enterprise Systems Management, Security
    Management, Storage Management, Business Service Optimization
    and the CA Products Group — which encompass solutions
    from a number of CA brands that fall outside of our core areas
    of systems and security management. Some or all of these areas
    may not grow, may decline in growth, or customers may decline or
    forgo use of products in some or all of these product areas.
    This is particularly true in newly emerging areas. A decline in
    sales in these product areas could result in decreased demand
    for our products and services, which would adversely impact our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Third
    parties could claim that our products infringe their
    intellectual property rights which could result in significant
    litigation expense or settlement with unfavorable terms that
    could adversely affect our business, financial condition,
    operating results and cash flow.


 


    From time to time we receive notices from third parties claiming
    infringement of various forms of their intellectual property.
    Investigation of these claims, whether with or without merit,
    can be expensive and could affect development, marketing or
    shipment of our products. As the number of software patents
    issued increases, it is likely that additional claims, with or
    without merit, will be asserted. Defending against such claims
    is time-consuming and could result in significant litigation
    expense or settlement with unfavorable terms that could
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating
    results and cash flow.


 



    Fluctuations
    in foreign currencies could result in translation
    losses.


 


    Most of the revenue and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries are
    denominated in local currencies. Given the relatively long sales
    cycle that is typical for many of our products, foreign currency
    fluctuations could result in substantial changes due to the
    foreign currency impact upon translation of these transactions
    into U.S. dollars. Additionally, fluctuations of the
    exchange rates of foreign currencies against the
    U.S. dollar can affect our revenue within those markets,
    all of which may adversely impact our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Our stock
    price is subject to significant fluctuations.


 


    Our stock price is subject to significant fluctuations in
    response to variations in quarterly operating results, the gain
    or loss of significant license agreements, changes in earnings
    estimates by analysts, announcements related to accounting
    issues, announcements of technological innovations or new
    products by us or our competitors, changes in domestic and
    international economic and business conditions, general
    conditions in the software and computer industries and other
    events or factors. In addition, the stock market in general has
    experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have
    affected the market price of many companies in industries that
    are similar or related to those in which we operate and that
    have been unrelated to the operating performance of these
    companies. These market fluctuations have in the past adversely
    affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price
    of our common stock, which in turn could affect the value of our
    stock-based compensation and our ability to retain and attract
    key employees.


 



    Any
    failure by us to execute our restructuring plan successfully
    could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than
    expected.


 


    In July 2005, we announced a restructuring plan to increase
    efficiency and productivity and to more closely align our
    investments with strategic growth opportunities. The plan
    includes a workforce reduction of approximately five percent or
    800 positions worldwide as well as facility and procurement
    rationalization. We may have further workforce reductions or
    restructuring actions in the future. Risks associated with these
    actions and other workforce management issues include delays in
    implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, changes in
    restructuring plans that increase or decrease the number of
    employees affected, decreases in employee morale and the failure
    to



    
    23



Table of Contents




    meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of
    which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost
    reductions or may otherwise harm our business.


 



    Taxation
    of extraterritorial income could adversely affect our
    results.


 


    In August 2001, a World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute panel
    determined that the tax provisions of the FSC Repeal and
    Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act of 2000 (ETI) constitute
    an export subsidy prohibited by the WTO Agreement on Subsidies
    and Countervailing Measures. The U.S. government appealed
    the panel’s decision and lost its appeal. On March 1,
    2004, the European Union (EU) began imposing retaliatory tariffs
    on a specified list of U.S. — source goods. In order
    to comply with international trade rules, the American Jobs
    Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) repealed the current tax
    treatment for ETI. The Act replaces the ETI provisions with a
    domestic manufacturing deduction and includes transition
    provisions for the ETI phase-out. We are reviewing the
    provisions of the Act and the impact on our effective tax rate.
    The WTO challenged the Act, claiming that the transition relief
    and grandfathering provisions of the Act amounted to a
    continuation of the ETI export subsidy. On February 13,
    2006, the Appellate Body of the WTO agreed that the Act violated
    international free-trade rules. As a result, the EU announced
    that by May 14, 2006 it would reinstate retaliatory tariffs
    that had been previously lifted. In order to comply with
    international free-trade rules, The Tax Increase Prevention and
    Reconciliation Act of 2005 (TIPRA) repealed certain provisions
    of the Act found to be objectionable by the EU. In response to
    TIPRA, the EU announced it would withdraw the retaliatory
    sanctions that were to have resumed May 16, 2006.


 



    Other
    potential tax liabilities may adversely affect our
    results.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and
    numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required
    in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the
    ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and
    calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
    We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we
    believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final
    determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be
    materially different than that which is reflected in historical
    income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be
    assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, a material
    effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period
    or periods in which that determination is made could result. In
    the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we determined that we
    did not properly calculate certain tax charges and accordingly
    had to adjust such charges. Refer to Item 9A,
    “Controls and Procedures”, for additional information.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B