Item 1A and elsewhere in this
    Form 10-K.
    Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or
    should our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary
    materially from those described in this
    Form 10-K
    as anticipated, believed, estimated, or expected. We do not
    intend to update these forward-looking statements.


 


    The product and services names mentioned in this
    Form 10-K
    are used for identification purposes only and may be protected
    by trademarks, trade names, service marks
    and/or other
    intellectual property rights of the Company
    and/or other
    parties in the United States
    and/or other
    jurisdictions. The absence of a specific attribution in
    connection with any such mark does not constitute a waiver of
    any such right.
    ITIL®

    is a registered trademark of the Office of Government Commerce
    in the United Kingdom and other countries. All other trademarks,
    trade names, service marks and logos referenced herein, belong
    to their respective companies.


 


    References in this
    Form 10-K
    to fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, etc. are to our
    fiscal years ended on March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, etc.,
    respectively.



 



    Part I
    




 



    Item 1.
    Business.
    


 




    
    



    
    (a) 

    
    General
    development of business









    Overview
    





    CA Technologies is the leading independent enterprise
    information technology (IT) management software and solutions
    company with expertise across IT environments — from
    mainframe and physical to virtual and cloud. We develop and
    deliver software and services that help organizations manage,
    secure and automate their IT infrastructures and deliver more
    flexible IT services. This allows companies to more effectively
    and efficiently respond to business needs.


 


    We address components of the computing environment, including
    people, information, processes, systems, networks, applications
    and databases, regardless of the hardware or software customers
    are using. We have a broad portfolio of software solutions that
    address customer needs, including mainframe; service assurance;
    security (identity and access management); project and portfolio
    management; service management; virtualization and service
    automation; and cloud computing. We deliver our products
    on-premises or, for certain products, using
    Software-as-a-Service (SaaS).


 



    Fiscal
    2011 business developments and highlights
    





    The following are significant developments and highlights
    relating to our business since the beginning of fiscal 2011:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In December 2010, we acquired Torokina Pty Ltd (Torokina), an
    Australia-based provider of telecommunications management
    solutions to 2G, 3G and next-generation networks,
    Voice-Over-Internet
    Protocol service providers and network operators worldwide. This
    acquisition enables us to expand the support of our service
    assurance portfolio for the advanced network devices and
    equipment used by communications service providers for their
    rapidly growing mobile voice and data environments.




 



     
        • 

    
    In December 2010, we announced the availability of CA Mainframe
    Chorus, an important innovation in our Mainframe 2.0 strategy.
    It offers management capabilities that are designed to appeal to
    the next-generation of mainframe professionals, while also
    offering significant productivity improvements to today’s
    mainframe experts.




 



     
        • 

    
    In October 2010, we acquired Hyperformix, Inc. (Hyperformix), a
    provider of capacity management software for dynamic physical,
    virtual and cloud IT infrastructures.










    1
    








Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In October 2010, we announced the next-generation CA Automation
    Suite to help customers migrate to a virtualized, dynamic cloud
    computing infrastructure. CA Automation Suite is designed to
    offer a comprehensive business service-centric approach to the
    deployment and scaling of IT infrastructure and services.




 



     
        • 

    
    In October 2010, we acquired Arcot Systems, Inc. (Arcot), a
    provider of authentication and fraud prevention solutions
    through on-premises software or cloud services. This acquisition
    enhances our identity and access management offerings.




 



     
        • 

    
    In October 2010, we released CA
    3Tera®

    AppLogic®,

    our new turnkey cloud computing platform designed to help
    organizations reduce risks associated with cloud deployments and
    enter new markets more rapidly. These actions complement our
    August 2010 acquisition of 4Base Technology, a virtualization
    and cloud infrastructure consulting firm.




 



     
        • 

    
    In July 2010, we announced five new products in our CA Virtual
    Suite, which enables customers to provision, control, assure,
    secure and optimize virtual environments. We also announced
    enhancements to CA Identity Manager to allow customers to
    automate provisioning to cloud applications, including Google
    Apps and Salesforce.com’s enterprise cloud computing
    platform.




 



     
        • 

    
    In June 2010, we sold our non-strategic Information Governance
    business, which consisted primarily of the CA Records Manager
    and CA Message Manager software offerings, to Autonomy
    Corporation plc.




 



     
        • 

    
    In May 2010, we held CA World, our user conference, with more
    than 7,000 attendees. During the conference, we announced the
    change of our brand name to CA Technologies. We also introduced
    the CA Cloud-Connected Management Suite to help customers manage
    and secure IT in the cloud.




 



     
        • 

    
    In May 2010, we announced a new stock repurchase program that
    authorizes us to purchase up to $500 million of our common
    stock. During fiscal 2011, we repurchased 10.5 million
    shares of our common stock at a total cost of $218 million.




 



     
        • 

    
    In April 2010, we attained the International Organization for
    Standardization (ISO)/IEC
    20000-1:2005
    and ISO/IEC 27001:2005 certifications for our Global IT
    Operations demonstrating leadership in IT service management and
    information security.





 


    We made the following changes to our executive management team
    and Board of Directors:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In April 2011, Rohit Kapoor was elected to our Board of
    Directors. Mr. Kapoor is Chief Executive Officer of
    ExlService Holdings, Inc.




 



     
        • 

    
    In June 2010, we announced the appointment of David C. Dobson as
    Executive Vice President and Group Executive, Customer Solutions
    Group. During fiscal 2011, Mr. Dobson, along with George J.
    Fischer as Executive Vice President and Group Executive,
    Worldwide Sales and Operations, focused on driving collaboration
    and accountability across the Company while providing us the
    opportunity to deliver improved customer service and product
    innovation.




 



     
        • 

    
    In June 2010, we announced the appointment of Phillip J.
    Harrington, Jr. to the position of Executive Vice
    President, Risk, and Chief Administrative Officer.




 



     
        • 

    
    In May 2010, our Board of Directors elected Arthur F. Weinbach
    as non-executive chairman of the Board. In this capacity,
    Mr. Weinbach succeeded William E. McCracken, who became our
    Chief Executive Officer in January 2010.





 




    
    



    
    (b) 

    
    Financial
    information about segments








    Our global business consists of a single operating
    segment — the design, development, marketing,
    licensing and support of IT management software products that
    operate on a wide range of hardware platforms and operating
    systems. Refer to Note 18 “Segment and Geographic
    Information,” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for financial data pertaining to our segment and
    geographic operations. We are in the process of reorganizing our
    internal management reporting and will change our segment
    reporting in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.


 




    
    



    
    (c) 

    
    Narrative
    description of the business








    As the leading independent enterprise IT management software and
    solutions company, we develop and deliver software and services
    that help organizations manage, secure and automate their IT
    infrastructures, adopt new technologies and deliver more
    flexible IT services. Our products are designed to work in a
    wide range of IT environments — from mainframe and
    physical to virtual and cloud. This allows our customers to more
    effectively and efficiently respond to business needs and
    compete in the marketplace.







    2
    








Table of Contents





    The ever-increasing role of IT in today’s businesses is
    placing new demands on IT, moving our industry at a faster pace
    than in the past. As a result, the IT landscape continues to
    evolve rapidly with technologies like virtualization and cloud
    computing, and the introduction of SaaS.


 


    Many companies are using these emerging technologies to extend
    their legacy physical environments to virtual and cloud
    environments, with the goals of increasing speed, flexibility
    and agility, and controlling costs. Companies use technology
    like virtualization, which lets users run multiple virtual
    machines on each physical machine, to improve the efficiency and
    availability of their IT resources and applications. This
    reduces operating costs tied to physical infrastructure.
    Virtualization is essential to the evolution of cloud computing,
    the on-demand access to a shared pool of computing resources
    that can be configured and used as needed. At the same time, the
    consumption of IT assets is evolving through the adoption of
    SaaS, where customers can obtain software on a subscription,
    “pay-as-you go” model. This move to
    “just-in-time”
    sourcing for IT enables customers to obtain IT services and
    solutions when, where and how they need them.


 


    As more companies begin to adopt virtualization and cloud
    computing, data centers are becoming more complex, with
    mainframe, physical servers, virtualized servers, and private,
    public and hybrid (a combination of public and private) cloud
    environments. As a result of this heightened complexity, we
    believe it is essential for companies to manage and secure all
    of their various computing environments.


 


    To address these demands, we have built a broad portfolio of
    mainframe and distributed software products with a focus on:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Mainframe, where we are the leading independent software
    vendor. We continue to innovate on this platform that runs many
    of our largest customers’ most important applications. Our
    mainframe strategy is to help customers and partners simplify
    mainframe management, gain more value from existing technology
    and extend mainframe capabilities. In December 2010, we
    introduced CA Mainframe Chorus and CA Mainframe Chorus for DB2
    Database Management to further help customers control costs and
    increase mainframe productivity and agility. CA Mainframe Chorus
    is an innovation in our Mainframe 2.0 strategy, which offers
    management capabilities designed to appeal to the next
    generation of mainframe staff while also offering productivity
    improvements to today’s mainframe experts.




 



     
        • 

    
    Service Assurance, where we are a leader in application
    performance management and infrastructure management. We enable
    customers to simplify IT management by linking applications,
    real users, transactions and services with the underlying IT
    infrastructure. This provides a comprehensive, unified
    understanding of the real-time performance, risk and quality of
    business services and end-users’ experience across
    physical, virtual and cloud environments. As a result of our
    fiscal 2010 acquisition of NetQoS, Inc. (NetQoS) we now have one
    of the most complete service assurance technologies in the
    industry. Service Assurance products include CA Application
    Performance Management, CA
    Introscope®

    and CA Infrastructure Management.




 



     
        • 

    
    Security (Identity and Access Management), where we make
    IT more secure across physical, virtual and cloud environments.
    Our solution, Content Aware Identity and Access Management,
    helps manage identities, control access and manage how
    information is used to minimize risk, boost compliance and
    enable organizations to safely and confidently adopt
    next-generation technologies. Our fiscal 2011 acquisition of
    Arcot added products to our portfolio that we believe will
    accelerate our cloud security strategy and the delivery of
    identity and access management solutions. Our security solutions
    include CA
    SiteMinder®,

    CA Access Control, CA Identity Manager, CA Arcot
    RiskForttm

    and CA Arcot
    WebFort®.





 



     
        • 

    
    Project and Portfolio Management (PPM), where our CA
    Claritytm

    PPM product is designed to help customers improve IT investment
    decision-making, enhance productivity and execute projects at a
    higher value and lower cost. Our PPM products also include CA
    Idea
    Visiontm,

    CA Product
    Visiontm

    and CA Agile
    Visiontm.





 



     
        • 

    
    Service Management, where we offer service desk
    management and IT asset management. We enable our customers to
    implement repeatable, measurable processes for defining,
    transitioning, delivering and supporting services and assets
    throughout their lifecycles. This allows our customers to
    improve service quality, user satisfaction and staff efficiency
    while maximizing the business value of their resources. Our
    solutions include CA Service Desk Manager, CA IT Asset Manager
    and CA Service Catalog.




 



     
        • 

    
    Virtualization and Service Automation, where we enable
    customers to manage multiple virtual and underlying physical
    platforms to increase efficiency and reliability at a reduced
    cost. We manage virtualization centrally through real-time
    visibility and control, helping to improve quality and
    efficiency and reduce risk. In July 2010 we introduced five
    products in the CA Technologies virtual portfolio, and in
    September 2010 we added capacity management software for dynamic











    3
    








Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    physical, virtual and cloud IT infrastructures with our
    acquisition of Hyperformix. Our solutions include CA Automation
    Suite for Data Centers, CA Client Automation and CA Workload
    Automation.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Cloud Computing, where we provide large enterprises with
    solutions to design, automate, secure and assure services to
    transform data centers into private clouds and leverage public
    cloud services. Cloud computing also creates opportunities to
    expand our reach to new markets. Our offerings such as those
    from our Arcot acquisition and our fiscal 2010 Nimsoft AS
    (Nimsoft) acquisition, as well as 3Tera AppLogic, enable new
    revenue streams and business models for managed service
    providers. These offerings also provide emerging enterprises,
    which we view as companies with annual revenue between
    $300 million and $2 billion, with subscription-based
    cloud services that help IT professionals of all skill levels
    quickly adopt best practices. Our solutions cover turnkey cloud
    platforms, automated capacity management, cloud vendor
    management services and cloud service quality assurance.





 


    We offer our software products and solutions directly to our
    customers through our sales force and indirectly through global
    systems integrators, technology partners, managed service
    providers, solution providers, distributors and volume partners,
    and exclusive representatives. We deliver all of our products
    on-premises or, for certain products, using SaaS.


 


    We license our products worldwide. We service companies across
    most major industries around the world, including banks,
    insurance companies, other financial services providers,
    government agencies, manufacturers, technology companies,
    retailers, educational organizations and health care
    institutions. The majority of the Global Fortune 500 uses our
    software to manage evolving IT environments.


 


    Some of our business results are seasonal, including software
    license transactions and cash flows from operations. These
    business results typically increase during each consecutive
    quarter of our fiscal year, with the fourth quarter typically
    having the highest results.


 



    Business
    strategy
    





    Our industry is experiencing high levels of change as
    innovations in virtualization, cloud computing and SaaS offer
    new, high-value solutions to our customers’ business and IT
    needs. Our strategy is to help our customers manage, secure and
    automate IT and to make us their strategic partner as they
    deploy new technologies and maximize their investments in
    current systems and applications. Our strategy is intended to
    build on our core strengths in IT management and to position us
    to drive sales in next-generation markets, including
    virtualization, cloud and SaaS. We have continued our ongoing
    efforts to shift our product portfolio to higher growth areas
    and modified our routes to market to match customer preferences.
    We are focused on making additional progress in these areas. We
    are executing our strategy through a combination of internal
    development and targeted acquisitions that are intended to add
    key technologies to our portfolio and extend our reach into new
    markets and segments. We believe the continuing evolution of IT
    opens the door for us to cross-sell and up-sell solutions to
    existing customers and attract new customers, all of which
    should help us drive new sales of products. This strategy is
    providing opportunities to develop new addressable markets and
    revenue streams for us.


 


    We serve a core set of large enterprise customers who have
    highly complex and heterogeneous computing environments. Many of
    our customers run critical applications on a mainframe, have
    sizeable physical systems and are adopting virtualization and
    cloud computing technologies. We believe they need to leverage
    their existing IT investments while taking advantage of new
    technologies and the on-demand delivery made possible by SaaS.
    We are focused on strengthening our relationships with these
    core customers through improved account management and
    reinvigorating our
    end-to-end
    customer experience. Simultaneously, we have refreshed our
    product and services portfolio, introducing or acquiring more
    than 40 new products within the last 12 months. This
    enables us to offer new products and support the value of our
    maintenance renewal stream, while at the same time adding new
    enterprise customers to CA Technologies.


 


    In addition to investing in technologies to serve our core
    enterprise market, we also are extending our reach to emerging
    enterprises and emerging geographies (which we also refer to as
    our growth geographies), such as Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin
    America. These markets are generally experiencing rapid economic
    growth and accelerating demand for IT products and services. For
    us, emerging markets also includes Japan, where we are expanding
    our presence. In addition, new technologies are key to business
    development in Brazil, China, India, Mexico and southeast Asia.
    During fiscal 2011, we enhanced our ability to address these
    markets with the introduction of new SaaS, virtualization, cloud
    and security solutions.


 


    Customers rely on various types of service providers to help
    them select, deploy and use IT services and products. We are
    increasing the number of our relationships and expanding
    existing relationships with these providers, particularly global
    outsourcers, regional managed service providers and
    communication network operators. At the same time, we are
    improving








    4
    








Table of Contents





    the capabilities of our products and services to meet the unique
    needs of service providers. For example, our acquisition of
    Torokina enhances our ability to meet the performance management
    needs for both internal IT and network operations within the
    communications service provider market. The acquisition of Arcot
    added technology for fraud prevention and authentication to
    address the needs of both enterprise users and financial service
    providers. We also introduced new versions of our CA Service
    Desk Manager product targeting the largest providers of help
    desk services.


 


    We believe that emerging enterprises are early adopters of cloud
    services and seek the increased flexibility, convenience and
    reduced costs that cloud computing can offer. To realize the
    benefits of cloud computing, these emerging enterprises need
    effective solutions for management and security. We believe that
    there are more than 14,000 emerging enterprises worldwide, which
    significantly expands our addressable market. We are delivering
    a suite of capabilities designed to meet the specific needs of
    this market. For example, following our acquisition of Nimsoft
    in fiscal 2010, we introduced Nimsoft Unified Monitoring for
    enterprises and service providers to centrally monitor their
    entire IT infrastructures, from the data center to the cloud.
    Nimsoft is offered as both an on-premises solution and SaaS, and
    offers the simple,
    quick-to-deploy
    functionality this market segment requires. We also have
    introduced CA Clarity PPM On Demand and CA Service Desk Manager
    On Demand to expand our SaaS offerings. Managed service
    providers who predominantly serve emerging enterprises are
    adopting our new suite, which creates an important new route to
    market for us. These product introductions represent our initial
    steps to capitalize on this market, and we are continuing to
    expand our capabilities to address the needs of emerging
    enterprises.


 



    Customers
    





    We have a large and broad base of customers, including the
    majority of the Global Fortune 500. Most of our revenue is
    generated from enterprise customers who have the ability to make
    substantial commitments to software and hardware
    implementations. While we continue to focus on solutions to
    offer to these customers, our strategy is also aimed at
    expanding our reach in emerging markets. This includes expanding
    in new geographies and segments such as managed service
    providers and emerging enterprises. Our software products are
    used in a broad range of industries, businesses and
    applications. We currently serve customers across most major
    industries worldwide, including banks, insurance companies,
    other financial services providers, government agencies,
    manufacturers, technology companies, retailers, educational
    organizations and health care institutions.


 


    When customers enter into software license agreements with us,
    they often pay for the right to use our software for a specified
    period of time. When the terms of these agreements expire,
    customers may either renew the license agreements or pay usage
    and maintenance fees, if applicable, for the right to continue
    to use our software, receive support,
    and/or
    receive future upgrades. Our customers’ satisfaction is
    important to us and we believe that our enhanced product
    portfolio allows us to maintain our customer base, cross-sell
    new software products and services to them, and attract new
    customers.


 


    No single customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue
    for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009. Approximately 9% of our total
    revenue backlog at March 31, 2011 is associated with
    multi-year contracts signed with the U.S. federal
    government and other U.S. state and local government
    agencies which are generally subject to any or all of the
    following: annual fiscal funding approval, renegotiation or
    termination at the discretion of the government.


 



    Partners
    





    Strategic partners are an important component of how we do
    business. We go to market with partners to increase sales in new
    market segments, complement our technology and services, provide
    more comprehensive offerings, and help build brand awareness. We
    continue to build strategic alliances to increase our share of
    currently served markets and penetrate additional markets. We
    are expanding our alliance partnerships globally, enhancing our
    network of regional “lead solution providers” who can
    extend our cloud technologies beyond our current customer base,
    and growing our next-generation offerings for service providers.


 


    We work with several types of partners:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Global Systems Integrators (GSIs) offer our products and
    solutions in their business practices and leverage their process
    design, planning and vertical expertise to ensure that holistic
    solutions and services are enabled to benefit our customers.




 



     
        • 

    
    Technology Partners enable strong product integration and
    technical collaboration of our products with their products to
    deliver comprehensive solutions for our customers’ IT
    environments. In addition to ensuring that our software remains
    compatible with complementary hardware and software, these
    partners help us adapt and respond to the emergence of











    5
    








Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    new technologies and trends, such as virtualization and cloud
    computing, which is intended to ensure that our release of new
    IT solutions is coupled with management tools that support those
    installations.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Managed Service Providers use our software products and
    solutions to deliver IT services to organizations that prefer to
    outsource their IT operations or enable specific services
    provided by these partners. Products such as Spectrum and
    eHealth, as well as other products we have acquired through
    NetQoS, Nimsoft and 3Tera, are being selected as core elements
    of service provider platforms.




 



     
        • 

    
    Solution Providers combine our software products with
    specialized consulting and professional services to provide
    enhanced, user-specific solutions to a particular market or
    sector. Their expertise in best practices, project management,
    implementation, training and other services adds value to our
    offerings as they target the needs of specialized customers.




 



     
        • 

    
    Distributors and Volume Partners enable us to broaden our reach
    to the small and medium business market segment, as well as
    cover market segments with our catalog of SaaS services and
    hosting capabilities. These partners provide efficient and
    personalized local delivery, service and support to our
    customers.




 



     
        • 

    
    Exclusive Representatives represent our interests in an emerging
    geography on an exclusive basis. These partners have been chosen
    for their deep understanding of the applicable territory and
    have an established business within the region.





 



    Sales
    and marketing
    





    We offer our solutions through our direct sales force and
    indirectly through our strategic partners. Our sales and
    marketing process includes carefully managing the customer
    lifecycle by continually improving the customer experience from
    purchase to deployment and beyond.


 


    We are focused on reaching a broader range of customers and
    deepening existing relationships, which opens the door for us to
    cross-sell and up-sell additional solutions. Our maintenance
    renewal process provides opportunities for us to maintain our
    working relationship with customers as they continue to use and
    upgrade their environments with our technology. It also gives us
    the opportunity to offer our customers new solutions that
    address their needs. We rely on market analysis and customer
    insight to help us identify new market opportunities and provide
    fact-based insight on industry and customer trends, and we rely
    on our marketing organization to build awareness and demand for
    our products worldwide to help drive sales.


 


    Our sales organization operates globally. We operate through
    branches, subsidiaries and partners around the world.
    Approximately 43% of our revenue in fiscal 2011 was from
    operations outside of the United States. At March 31, 2011,
    and March 31, 2010, we had approximately 3,500 and 3,400
    sales and sales support personnel, respectively. In certain
    non-U.S. geographic
    locations, including in the Asia Pacific and Japan region, our
    primary routes to market are distributors and volume partners.
    In other
    non-U.S. geographic
    locations, principally in southern Eastern Europe, the Middle
    East and Africa, we utilize a franchise model with exclusive
    representatives as our primary route to market.


 



    Customer
    lifecycle management
    





    Our goal is to stay proactive and attuned to our customers’
    needs. We have a coordinated process to guide customers and
    partners through installing, employing and leveraging IT
    management software. In fiscal 2011, we announced Go Live with
    CA Technologies to further enhance the customer and partner
    experience and value after the sale. This program integrates
    professional, educational and support services to enable our
    customers and partners to rapidly and successfully deploy their
    IT management software. Go Live with CA Technologies manages a
    customer’s post-sale lifecycle through four key phases. We
    provide personalized support (1) during the
    pre-implementation phase of the project, (2) at the outset
    of implementation, (3) during the critical first
    90 days of implementation, and (4) over the longer
    term, by presenting value programs to customers to show them how
    to maximize the business value of our technology. These
    activities are proactive and allow us the opportunity to stay in
    touch with our customers and drive customer value at each phase
    of service.


 



    Research
    and development
    





    We invest in product development and enhancements to bring
    innovative solutions to market and ensure that our products are
    compatible with hardware and operating system changes and our
    customers’ evolving needs. We focus our development efforts
    for new and updated products by investing in areas we believe
    are important to our customers: mainframe; service assurance;
    security (identity and access management); project and portfolio
    management; service management; virtualization and service
    automation and cloud computing.







    6
    








Table of Contents





    Our 5,600 engineers are primarly in Beijing, China; Prague, the
    Czech Republic; Hyderabad, India; Herzliya, Israel; and the
    United States. In the United States, product development is
    primarily performed at our facilities in Redwood City and
    San Francisco, California; Lisle, Illinois; Framingham,
    Massachusetts; Ewing, New Jersey; Islandia, New York;
    Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Plano and Austin, Texas; and Herndon,
    Virginia. Our engineers work collaboratively in both physical
    and virtual labs, increasingly using an agile development
    methodology. Among other things, agile development is intended
    to enable the incorporation of new customer insights throughout
    the development process, which in turn strengthens our ability
    to bring to market leading-edge innovations that deliver real
    business value to our customers.


 


    Our research and development activities also include a number of
    efforts to support our technical community in its pursuit of
    leading solutions for customers. We continue to use CA
    Technologies Labs on Demand to strengthen our relationships with
    research communities by working with academia, professional
    associations, industry standards bodies, customers and partners
    to explore novel products and emerging technologies. Our CA
    Council for Technical Excellence leads innovative projects
    designed to promote communication, collaboration and synergy
    throughout our global technical community. The CA Architecture
    Board helps us ensure a strong central architecture that
    supports our growth strategy and our Distinguished Engineer
    Board encourages and recognizes excellence in engineering.


 


    To keep us on top of major technological advances and to ensure
    our products continue to work well with those of other vendors,
    we are active in most major industry standards organizations and
    take the lead on many issues. Our professionals are certified
    across key standards, including
    ITIL®,

    PMI and CISPP, and possess knowledge and expertise in key
    vertical markets, such as financial services, government,
    telecommunications, insurance, health care, manufacturing and
    retail. Further, we were the first major software company to
    earn the ISO’s 9001:2000 Global Certification. In addition,
    our Global IT Operations have attained ISO/IEC
    20000-1:2005
    and ISO/IEC 27001:2005 certifications. These certifications
    demonstrate our leadership in IT service management and
    information security.


 


    We have charged to operations $471 million,
    $468 million and $479 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and
    2009, respectively, for product development and enhancements. In
    fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, we capitalized costs of
    $170 million, $188 million and $129 million,
    respectively, for internally developed software.


 



    Intellectual
    property
    





    Certain aspects of our products and technology are proprietary.
    We rely on U.S. and foreign intellectual property laws,
    including patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to
    protect our proprietary rights. However, the extent and duration
    of protection given to different types of intellectual property
    rights vary under different countries’ legal systems. In
    some countries, full-scale intellectual property protection for
    our products and technology may be unavailable, or the laws of
    other jurisdictions may not protect our proprietary technology
    rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We
    also maintain contractual restrictions in our agreements with
    customers, employees and others to protect our intellectual
    property rights. In addition, we occasionally license software
    and technology from third parties, including some competitors,
    and incorporate them into our own software products.


 


    Our patent portfolio includes more than 500 issued patents and
    700 pending applications in the United States and the European
    Union. The patents generally expire at various times over the
    next 20 years. Although the durations and geographic
    coverage for our patents may vary, we believe our patent
    portfolio adequately protects our interests.


 


    The source code for our products is protected both as trade
    secrets and as copyrighted works. Some of our customers are
    beneficiaries of a source code escrow arrangement that enables
    them to obtain a contingent, limited right to access our source
    code.


 


    Although we have a number of patents and pending applications
    that may be of value to various aspects of our products and
    technology, we are not aware of any single patent that is
    essential to us or to any of our principal business product
    areas.


 



    Product
    licensing
    





    Our licensing model offers customers a wide range of purchasing
    and payment options. Under our flexible licensing terms,
    customers can license our software products under multi-year
    licenses or on a
    month-to-month
    basis, with most customers choosing terms of
    one-to-three
    years, although longer terms are sometimes negotiated by
    customers in order to obtain greater cost certainty. We also
    help customers reduce uncertainty by providing a standard
    pricing schedule based on simple usage tiers. With respect to
    licenses sold for our mainframe products, we offer our customers
    the right to receive unspecified future software products for no
    additional fee, and we include maintenance during the term of
    the license. With respect to








    7
    








Table of Contents





    licenses sold for most of our distributed products, we do not
    offer our customers unspecified future software products and do
    not always include maintenance with the license sale. For a
    description of our revenue recognition policies, refer to
    Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies,” in the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Competition
    





    Our industry is highly competitive. We believe that the
    enterprise IT management software and solutions business is
    marked by rapid technological change, the steady emergence of
    new companies and products, evolving industry standards and
    changing customer needs. We compete with many established
    companies in the markets we serve. Some of these companies have
    substantially greater financial, marketing and technological
    resources; broader distribution capabilities; earlier access to
    customers; and a greater opportunity to address customers’
    various information technology requirements than we do. These
    factors may, at times, provide some of our competitors with an
    advantage in penetrating markets with their products. Our
    primary competitors include BMC Software, Compuware Corporation,
    Hewlett-Packard Company, International Business Machines, Oracle
    Corporation, and VMware, Inc.


 


    We also compete with many smaller, less established companies
    that may be able to focus more effectively on specific product
    areas or markets. Because of the breadth of our product
    portfolio, we have competitors who may only compete with us in
    one product area and other competitors who compete across most
    or all of our product portfolios.


 


    We believe our competitive differentiators include: our
    independence (since our products are not linked to a proprietary
    hardware, software or operating system platform); industry
    vision; expertise; product quality, functionality, performance,
    integration and manageability, and breadth of product offerings;
    customer support; frequency of upgrades and updates; pricing,
    brand name recognition; and reputation.


 



    Employees
    





    The table below sets forth the approximate number of employees
    by location and functional area at March 31, 2011:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    EMPLOYEES
    


 


 


 


 


    EMPLOYEES
    


 




    LOCATION


 


    AT MARCH 31, 2011
    


 


 


    FUNCTIONAL AREA


 


    AT MARCH 31, 2011
    


 





 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Corporate headquarters



 


 


    1,600


 


 


    Professional services


 


 


    1,200


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


    Support services


 


 


    1,600


 





    Other U.S. offices



 


 


    5,400


 


 


    Selling and marketing


 


 


    4,000


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


    General and administrative


 


 


    2,200


 





    International offices



 


 


    6,400


 


 


    Product development


 


 


    4,400


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    13,400


 


 


    Total


 


 


    13,400


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    At March 31, 2011, and 2010, we had approximately 13,400
    and 13,800 employees, respectively.


 




    
    



    
    (d) 

    
    Financial
    information about geographic areas








    Refer to Note 18, “Segment and Geographic
    Information” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for financial data pertaining to our segment and
    geographic operations.


 




    
    



    
    (e) 

    
    Corporate
    information








    The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1974, began
    operations in 1976 and completed an initial public offering of
    common stock in December 1981. Prior to April 28, 2008, our
    common stock was traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
    symbol “CA.” On April 28, 2008, we commenced
    trading on The NASDAQ Global Select Market tier of The NASDAQ
    Stock Market LLC under the same symbol.


 


    Our corporate website address is www.ca.com. All filings we make
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    our Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    our Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and any amendments thereto filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, are available for free in the investor
    relations section of our website (www.ca.com/investor) as soon
    as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished
    to the SEC. Our SEC filings are available to be read or copied
    at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.
    Information about the operation of the Public Reference Room can
    be obtained by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    Our filings can also be obtained for free on the SEC’s
    website at www.sec.gov. The reference to our website address
    does not constitute inclusion or incorporation by reference of
    the








    8
    








Table of Contents





    information contained on our website in this
    Form 10-K
    or other filings with the SEC, and the information contained on
    our website is not part of this document.


 


    The investor relations section of our website
    (www.ca.com/investor) also contains information about our
    initiatives in corporate governance, including: our corporate
    governance principles; information about our Board of Directors
    (including specific procedures for communicating with them);
    information concerning our Board Committees, including the
    charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Human
    Resources Committee, the Corporate Governance Committee, and the
    Compliance and Risk Committee; and our Code of Conduct:
    Information and Resource Guide (applicable to all of our
    employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief
    Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, and our
    directors). These documents can also be obtained in print by
    writing to our Corporate Secretary, CA, Inc., One CA Plaza,
    Islandia, NY 11749.







    9
    








Table of Contents





 



    Item 1A.
    Risk factors.
    


 


    Current and potential stockholders should consider carefully the
    risk factors described below. Any of these factors, many of
    which are beyond our control, could materially adversely affect
    our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow
    and stock price.


 



    Failure
    to achieve success in our growth strategy could materially
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating
    results and cash flow.





    Our current business strategy emphasizes accelerating our
    growth. As more fully described in Part  I,
    Item 1. “Business,” this strategy is designed to
    build on our portfolio of software and services to meet
    next-generation market opportunities. The success of this growth
    strategy could be affected by many of the risk factors discussed
    in this
    Form 10-K
    and also by our ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increase sales in new and emerging enterprises and markets where
    we currently may not have a strong presence and where we may
    have a dependence on unfamiliar distribution partners and routes;




 



     
        • 

    
    Enable our sales force to sell new products, including instances
    where our offerings are of a type not previously provided by us;




 



     
        • 

    
    Improve the CA Technologies brand in the marketplace, including
    as it relates to our ability to sell new products and penetrate
    new or emerging markets; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Ensure our set of cloud computing, SaaS and other new offerings
    address the needs of a rapidly changing market, while not
    adversely affecting the demand for our traditional products or
    our profitability.





 


    Failure to achieve success with this strategy while maintaining
    our core business could materially adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Given
    the global nature of our business, economic factors or political
    events beyond our control and other business risks associated
    with
    non-U.S.
    operations can affect our business in unpredictable
    ways.





    International revenue has historically represented a significant
    percentage of our total worldwide revenue. Success in selling
    and developing our products outside the United States will
    depend on a variety of factors in various
    non-U.S. locations,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Foreign exchange currency rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    Local economic conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Political stability and acts of terrorism;




 



     
        • 

    
    Workforce reorganizations in various locations, including global
    reorganizations of sales, research and development, technical
    services, finance, human resources and facilities functions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Effectively staffing key managerial and technical positions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Successfully localizing software products for a significant
    number of international markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    More restrictive employment regulation;




 



     
        • 

    
    Trade restrictions such as tariffs, duties, taxes or other
    controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    International intellectual property laws, which may be more
    restrictive or may offer lower levels of protection than
    U.S. law;




 



     
        • 

    
    Complying with differing and changing local laws and regulations
    in multiple international locations as well as complying with
    U.S. laws and regulations where applicable in these
    international locations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Developing and executing an effective
    go-to-market
    strategy in various locations.





 


    Any of the foregoing factors could materially adversely affect
    our business, financial condition, operating results and cash
    flow.







    10
    








Table of Contents






    General
    economic conditions and credit constraints, or unfavorable
    economic conditions in a particular region, business or industry
    sector, may lead our customers to delay or forgo technology
    investments and could have other impacts, any of which could
    materially adversely affect our business, financial condition,
    operating results and cash flow.





    Our products are designed to improve the productivity and
    efficiency of our customers’ information processing
    resources. However, a general slowdown in the global economy, or
    in a particular region, or business or industry sector (such as
    the financial services sector), or tightening of credit markets,
    could cause customers to: have difficulty accessing credit
    sources; delay contractual payments; or delay or forgo decisions
    to (i) license new products (particularly with respect to
    discretionary spending for software), (ii) upgrade their
    existing environments or (iii) purchase services. Any such
    impacts could materially adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 


    Such a general slowdown in the global economy may also
    materially affect the global banking system, including
    individual institutions as well as a particular business or
    industry sector, which could cause further consolidations or
    failures in such a sector. Approximately one third of our
    revenue is derived from arrangements with financial institutions
    (i.e., banking, brokerage and insurance companies). The
    majority of these arrangements are for the renewal of mainframe
    capacity and maintenance associated with transactions processed
    by our financial institution customers. While we cannot predict
    what impact there may be on our business from further
    consolidation of the financial industry sector, or the impact
    from the economy in general on our business, to date the impact
    has not been material to our balance sheet, results of
    operations or cash flows. The vast majority of our subscription
    and maintenance revenue in any particular reporting period comes
    from contracts signed in prior periods, generally pursuant to
    contracts ranging in duration from three to five years.


 


    Any of these events could affect the manner in which we are able
    to conduct business, including within a particular industry
    sector or market and could materially adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Failure
    to expand our partner programs related to the sale of CA
    solutions may result in lost sales opportunities, increases in
    expenses and a weakening in our competitive position.





    We sell CA solutions through global systems integrators,
    technology partners, managed service providers, solution
    providers, distributors of volume partners and exclusive
    representatives in partner programs that require training and
    expertise to sell these solutions, and global penetration to
    grow these aspects of our business. The failure to expand these
    partner programs and penetrate these markets could materially
    adversely affect our success with partners, resulting in lost
    sales opportunities and an increase in expenses, as well as
    weaken our competitive position.


 



    If
    we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting
    and managerial systems and processes, including the successful
    implementation of our enterprise resource planning software, our
    ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed.





    Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and
    comply with regulations requires effective planning and
    management systems and processes. We need to continue to improve
    and implement existing and new operational and financial
    systems, procedures and controls to manage our business
    effectively in the future. As a result, we have licensed
    enterprise resource planning software, consolidated certain
    finance functions into regional locations, and are in the
    process of expanding and upgrading our operational and financial
    systems. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in
    the transition to, our new or enhanced systems, procedures or
    internal controls, could adversely affect our ability to
    accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain,
    achieve accuracy in the conversion of electronic data and
    records, and report financial and management information,
    including the filing of our quarterly or annual reports with the
    SEC, on a timely and accurate basis. Failure to properly or
    adequately address these issues could result in the diversion of
    management’s attention and resources, adversely affect our
    ability to manage our business and materially adversely affect
    our business, financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flow. Refer to Item 9A, “Controls and
    Procedures,” for additional information.


 



    We
    may encounter difficulties in successfully integrating companies
    and products that we have acquired or may acquire into our
    existing business, and any failed integration could materially
    adversely affect our infrastructure, market presence, business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.





    In the past we have acquired, and in the future we expect to
    acquire, complementary companies, products, services and
    technologies (including through mergers, asset acquisitions,
    joint ventures, partnerships, strategic alliances, and equity








    11
    








Table of Contents





    investments). Additionally, we expect to acquire technology and
    software that are consistent with our growth strategy. The risks
    we may encounter include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We may find that the acquired company or assets do not further
    improve our financial and strategic position as planned;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may have difficulty integrating the operations, facilities,
    personnel and commission plans of the acquired business;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may have difficulty forecasting or reporting results
    subsequent to acquisitions;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may have difficulty retaining the skills needed to further
    market, sell or provide services on the acquired products in a
    manner that will be accepted by the market;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies
    or products into our existing product lines;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may have product liability, customer liability or
    intellectual property liability associated with the sale of the
    acquired company’s products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ongoing business may be disrupted by transition or
    integration issues and our management’s attention may be
    diverted from other business initiatives;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may be unable to obtain timely approvals from governmental
    authorities under applicable competition and antitrust laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls,
    procedures and policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our relationships with current and new employees, customers and
    distributors could be impaired;




 



     
        • 

    
    An acquisition may result in increased litigation risk,
    including litigation from terminated employees or third
    parties; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Our due diligence process may fail to identify significant
    issues with the acquired company’s product quality,
    financial disclosures, accounting practices, internal control
    deficiencies, including material weaknesses, product
    architecture, legal and tax contingencies and other matters.





 


    These factors could materially adversely affect our business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flow,
    particularly in the case of a large acquisition or number of
    acquisitions. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other
    rights to purchase stock, including options, to pay for
    acquisitions or to retain employees, existing stockholders’
    interests may be diluted and income per share may decrease.


 



    We
    are subject to intense competition in product and service
    offerings and pricing, and we expect to face increased
    competition in the future, which could either diminish demand
    for or inhibit growth of our products and, therefore, reduce our
    sales, revenue and market presence.





    The markets for our products are intensely competitive, and we
    expect product and service offerings and pricing competition to
    increase. Some of our competitors have longer operating
    histories, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of
    customers in any particular market niche, larger technical
    staffs, established relationships with hardware vendors, or
    greater financial, technical and marketing resources.
    Furthermore, our growth strategy is predicated upon our ability
    to develop and acquire products and services that address
    customer needs and are accepted by the market better than those
    of our competitors.


 


    We also face competition from numerous smaller companies that
    specialize in specific aspects of the highly fragmented software
    industry, and from shareware authors that may develop competing
    products. In addition, new companies enter the market on a
    frequent and regular basis, offering products that compete with
    those offered by us. Moreover, certain customers historically
    have developed their own products that compete with those
    offered by us. The competition may affect our ability to attract
    and retain the technical skills needed to provide services to
    our customers, forcing us to become more reliant on delivery of
    services through third parties. This, in turn, could increase
    operating costs and decrease our revenue, profitability and cash
    flow. Additionally, competition from any of these sources could
    result in price reductions or displacement of our products,
    which could materially adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.


 


    Our competitors include large vendors of hardware and operating
    system software and service providers. The widespread inclusion
    of products that perform the same or similar functions as our
    products bundled within computer hardware or other
    companies’ software products, or services similar to those
    provided by us, could reduce the perceived need for our products








    12
    








Table of Contents





    and services, or render our products obsolete and unmarketable.
    Furthermore, even if these incorporated products are inferior or
    more limited than our products, customers may elect to accept
    the incorporated products rather than purchase our products. In
    addition, the software industry is currently undergoing
    consolidation as software companies seek to offer more extensive
    suites and broader arrays of software products and services, as
    well as integrated software and hardware solutions. This
    consolidation may adversely affect our competitive position,
    which could materially adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow. Refer to
    Part I, Item 1, “Business —
    (c) Narrative Description of the Business —
    Competition,” for additional information.


 



    Our
    business may suffer if we are not able to retain and attract
    adequate qualified personnel, including key managerial,
    technical, marketing and sales personnel.





    We operate in a business where there is intense competition for
    experienced personnel in all of our global markets. We depend on
    our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, develop and
    retain qualified and effective personnel and to attract and
    retain talent needed to execute our growth strategy. Our ability
    to do so depends on numerous factors, including factors that we
    cannot control, such as competition and conditions in the local
    employment markets in which we operate. Our future success
    depends in large part on the continued contribution of our
    senior management and other key employees. A loss of a
    significant number of skilled managerial or other personnel
    could have a negative effect on the quality of our products. A
    loss of a significant number of experienced and effective sales
    personnel could result in fewer sales of our products. Our
    failure to retain qualified employees in these categories could
    materially adversely affect our business, financial condition,
    operating results and cash flow.


 



    Failure
    to adapt to technological changes and introduce new software
    products and services in a timely manner could materially
    adversely affect our business.





    If we fail to keep pace with, or in certain cases lead,
    technological change in our industry, that failure could
    materially adversely affect our business. We operate in a highly
    competitive industry characterized by rapid technological
    change, evolving industry standards, and changes in customer
    requirements and delivery methods. During the past several
    years, many new technological advancements and competing
    products entered the marketplace. The distributed systems and
    application management markets in which we operate are far more
    crowded and competitive than our traditional mainframe systems
    management markets.


 


    Our ability to compete effectively and our growth prospects for
    all of our products, including those associated with our growth
    strategy, depend upon many factors, including the success of our
    existing distributed systems products, the timely introduction
    and success of future software products and related delivery
    methods, and the ability of our products to perform well with
    existing and future leading databases and other platforms
    supported by our products that address customer needs and are
    accepted by the market. We have experienced long development
    cycles and product delays in the past, particularly with some of
    our distributed systems products, and may experience delays in
    the future. In addition, we have incurred, and expect to
    continue to incur, significant research and development costs,
    as we introduce new products. If there are delays in new product
    introductions or there is
    less-than-anticipated
    market acceptance of these new products, we will have invested
    substantial resources without realizing adequate revenues in
    return, which could materially adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    If
    our products do not remain compatible with ever-changing
    operating environments we could lose customers and the demand
    for our products and services could decrease, which could
    materially adversely affect our business, financial condition,
    operating results and cash flow.





    The largest suppliers of systems and computing software are, in
    most cases, the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems
    used by most of our customers. Historically, these companies
    have from time to time modified or introduced new operating
    systems, systems software and computer hardware. In the future,
    such new products from these companies could incorporate
    features that perform functions currently performed by our
    products, or could require substantial modification of our
    products to maintain compatibility with these companies’
    hardware or software. Although we have to date been able to
    adapt our products and our business to changes introduced by
    hardware manufacturers and system software developers, there can
    be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future.
    Failure to adapt our products in a timely manner to such changes
    or customer decisions to forgo the use of our products in favor
    of those with comparable functionality contained either in their
    hardware or operating system could materially adversely affect
    our business, financial condition, operating results and cash
    flow.







    13
    








Table of Contents






    Certain
    software that we use in our products is licensed from third
    parties and thus may not be available to us in the future, which
    has the potential to delay product development and production
    and, therefore, could materially adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.





    Some of our solutions contain software licensed from third
    parties. Some of these licenses may not be available to us in
    the future on terms that are acceptable to us or allow our
    products to remain competitive. The loss of these licenses or
    the inability to maintain any of them on commercially acceptable
    terms could delay development of future products or the
    enhancement of existing products. We may also choose to pay a
    premium price for such a license in certain circumstances where
    continuity of the licensed product would outweigh the premium
    cost of the license. The unavailability of these licenses or the
    necessity of agreeing to commercially unreasonable terms for
    such licenses could materially adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Certain
    software we use is from open source code sources, which, under
    certain circumstances, may lead to unintended consequences and,
    therefore, could materially adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.





    Some of our products contain software from open source code
    sources. The use of such open source code may subject us to
    certain conditions, including the obligation to offer our
    products that use open source code for no cost. We monitor our
    use of such open source code to avoid subjecting our products to
    conditions we do not intend. However, the use of such open
    source code may ultimately subject some of our products to
    unintended conditions, which could require us to take remedial
    action that may divert resources away from our development
    efforts and therefore could materially adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Discovery
    of errors in our software could materially adversely affect our
    revenue and earnings and subject us to costly and time consuming
    product liability claims.





    The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite
    testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors
    will not be found in current versions, new versions or
    enhancements of our products after commencement of commercial
    shipments. If new or existing customers have difficulty
    deploying our products or require significant amounts of
    customer support, our operating margins could be adversely
    affected. Moreover, we could face possible claims and higher
    development costs if our software contains errors that we have
    not detected or if our software otherwise fails to meet our
    customers’ expectations. Significant technical challenges
    also arise with our products because our customers license and
    deploy our products across a variety of computer platforms and
    integrate them with a number of third-party software
    applications and databases. These combinations increase our risk
    further because, in the event of a system-wide failure, it may
    be difficult to determine which product is at fault. As a
    result, we may be harmed by the failure of another
    supplier’s products. As a result of the foregoing, we could
    experience:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share;




 



     
        • 

    
    Loss of customers, including the inability to obtain repeat
    business with existing key customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Damage to our reputation;




 



     
        • 

    
    Failure to achieve market acceptance;




 



     
        • 

    
    Diversion of development resources;




 



     
        • 

    
    Increased service and warranty costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Legal actions by customers against us that could, whether or not
    successful, be costly, distracting and time-consuming;




 



     
        • 

    
    Increased insurance costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Failure to successfully complete service engagements for product
    installations and implementations.





 


    Consequently, the discovery of errors in our products after
    delivery could materially adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.







    14
    








Table of Contents




 



    We
    have a significant amount of debt. Changes in market conditions
    or our ratings could increase our interest costs and adversely
    affect the cost of refinancing our debt and our ability to
    refinance our debt, which could materially adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, operating results and cash
    flow.





    At March 31, 2011, we had $1,551 million of debt
    outstanding, consisting mostly of unsecured fixed-rate senior
    note obligations and credit facility borrowings. Refer to
    Note 9, “Debt,” in the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for the payment schedule of our long-term
    debt obligations. Our senior unsecured notes are rated by
    Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings, and Standard and
    Poor’s. These agencies or any other credit rating agency
    could downgrade or take other negative action with respect to
    our credit ratings in the future. If our credit ratings were
    downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be
    required to, among other things, pay additional interest on
    outstanding borrowings under our principal revolving credit
    agreement. Any downgrades could affect our ability to obtain
    additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of
    any such financing.


 


    We expect that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable
    securities, cash provided from operations and our bank credit
    facilities will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements.
    However, our failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt
    becomes due or to renew credit lines prior to their expiration
    could materially adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Failure
    to protect our intellectual property rights and source code
    would weaken our competitive position.





    Our future success is highly dependent upon our proprietary
    technology, including our software and our source code for that
    software. Failure to protect such technology could lead to the
    loss of valuable assets and our competitive advantage. We
    protect our proprietary information through the use of patents,
    copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality
    procedures and contractual provisions. Notwithstanding our
    efforts to protect our proprietary rights, policing unauthorized
    use or copying of our proprietary information is difficult.
    Unauthorized use or copying occurs from time to time and
    litigation to enforce intellectual property rights could result
    in significant costs and diversion of resources. Moreover, the
    laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not afford the same degree
    of protection to our proprietary rights as do the laws of the
    United States. For example, for some of our products, we rely on
    “shrink-wrap” or “click-on” licenses, which
    may be unenforceable in whole or in part in some jurisdictions
    in which we operate. In addition, patents we have obtained may
    be circumvented, challenged, invalidated or designed around by
    other companies. If we do not adequately protect our
    intellectual property for these or other reasons, our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be
    materially adversely affected. Refer to Part I ,
    Item 1, “Business — (c) Narrative
    Description of the Business — Intellectual
    Property,” for additional information.


 



    The
    number, terms and duration of our license agreements as well as
    the timing of orders from our customers and channel partners,
    may cause fluctuations in some of our key financial metrics,
    which may affect our quarterly financial results.





    Historically, a substantial portion of our license agreements
    are executed in the last month of a quarter and the number of
    contracts executed during a given quarter can vary
    substantially. In addition, we experience a historically long
    sales cycle, which is driven in part by the varying terms and
    conditions of our software contracts. These factors can make it
    difficult for us to predict sales and cash flow on a quarterly
    basis. Any failure or delay in executing new or renewed license
    agreements in a given quarter could cause declines in some of
    our key financial metrics (e.g., revenue or cash flow),
    and, accordingly, increases the risk of unanticipated variations
    in our quarterly results and financial condition.


 



    We
    may become dependent upon large transactions, and the failure to
    close such transactions on a satisfactory basis could materially
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating
    results and cash flow.





    In the past, we have been dependent upon large-dollar enterprise
    transactions with individual customers. There can be no
    assurances that we will not be reliant on large-dollar
    enterprise transactions in the future, and the failure to close
    those transactions on terms that are commercially attractive to
    us could materially adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Our
    sales to government clients subject us to risks, including early
    termination, renegotiation, audits, investigations, sanctions
    and penalties.





    Approximately 9% of our total revenue backlog at March 31,
    2011 is associated with multi-year contracts signed with the
    U.S. federal government and other U.S. state and local
    government agencies. These contracts are generally subject to
    annual fiscal funding approval, may be renegotiated or
    terminated at the discretion of the government, or all of these.
    Termination, renegotiation or funding for a contract could
    adversely affect our sales, revenue and reputation.
    Additionally, our government








    15
    








Table of Contents





    contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations,
    which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and
    administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts,
    refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits,
    suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from
    doing business with the government, which could materially
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating
    results and cash flow.


 



    Our
    customers’ data centers and IT environments may be subject
    to hacking or other breaches, harming customer relationships and
    the market perception of the effectiveness of our
    products.





    An actual or perceived breach of our customers’ network
    security allowing access to our customers’ data centers or
    other parts of their IT environments, regardless of whether the
    breach is attributable to our products, may cause contractual
    disputes and may negatively affect the market perception of the
    effectiveness of our products. Because the techniques used by
    computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change
    frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a
    target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques.
    Alleviating any of these problems could require significant
    expenditures of our capital and diversion of our resources from
    development efforts. Additionally, these efforts could cause
    interruptions, delays or cessation of our product licensing, or
    modification of our software, which could cause us to lose
    existing or potential customers, which could materially
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating
    results and cash flow.


 



    Our
    software products, data centers and IT environments may be
    subject to hacking or other breaches, resulting in a loss or
    misuse of proprietary and/or confidential information and harm
    to the market perception of the effectiveness of our
    products.





    We expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically
    designed to impede the performance of our products. Similarly,
    experienced computer programmers or hackers may attempt to
    penetrate our network security or the security of our data
    centers and IT environments and misappropriate proprietary
    and/or
    confidential information of the Company, its employees or other
    individuals or cause interruptions of our services. Although we
    believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent
    significant external disruptions, if these intentionally
    disruptive efforts are successful, our activities could be
    adversely affected, our reputation and future sales could be
    harmed and our business, financial condition, operating results
    and cash flow could be materially adversely affected.


 



    We
    may lose access to third-party code and specifications for the
    development of code, which could materially adversely affect our
    ability to develop software compatible with third-party software
    products in the future.





    In the past, we have either directly licensed from third
    parties, or used within the scope of our customer’s
    license, code and information for third-party software and
    hardware that enables us to develop compatible products and
    interfaces. Such code and information includes: “source
    code,” which is human-readable and makes the software
    understandable to programmers; “object code,” which is
    machine-readable and can be directly executed by a computer;
    beta and evaluation software; microcode and firmware that
    implement machine instructions on hardware; and technical
    documentation. Since the availability of this code and
    information facilitated the development of systems and
    applications software that interfaces with the third-party
    software and hardware, independent software vendors, such as us,
    were able to develop and market compatible software. Some
    software providers and hardware manufacturers, including some of
    the largest vendors, have a policy of restricting the use or
    availability of their code or technical documentation for some
    of their operating systems, applications, or hardware. To date,
    this policy has not had a material effect on us. Some companies,
    however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or
    impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These
    restrictions may, in the future, result in higher research and
    development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and
    modification of our existing products and the development of new
    products. There can be no assurance that any additional
    restrictions would not materially adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    Third
    parties could claim that our products infringe their
    intellectual property rights or that we owe royalty payments to
    them, which could result in significant litigation expense or
    settlement with unfavorable terms, which could materially
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating
    results and cash flow.





    From time to time, third parties have claimed and may claim that
    our products infringe various forms of their intellectual
    property or that we owe royalty payments to them. Investigation
    of these claims can be expensive and could affect development,
    marketing or shipment of our products. As the number of software
    patents issued increases, it is likely that additional claims
    will be asserted. Defending against such claims is time
    consuming and could result in significant litigation








    16
    








Table of Contents





    expense or settlement on unfavorable terms, which could
    materially adversely affect our business, financial condition,
    operating results and cash flow.


 



    Fluctuations
    in foreign currencies could result in translation
    losses.





    Our consolidated financial results are reported in
    U.S. dollars. Most of the revenue and expenses of our
    foreign subsidiaries are denominated in local currencies. Given
    that cash is typically received over an extended period of time
    for many of our license agreements and given that a substantial
    portion of our revenue is generated outside of the U.S.,
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the
    U.S. dollar could result in substantial changes in reported
    revenues and operating results due to the foreign currency
    impact upon translation of these transactions into
    U.S. dollars.


 


    In the normal course of business, we employ various strategies
    to manage these risks, including the use of derivative
    instruments. These strategies may not be effective in protecting
    us against the effects of fluctuations from movements in foreign
    exchange rates. Fluctuations of the foreign currency exchange
    rates could materially adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, operating results and cash flow.


 



    We
    have outsourced various functions to third parties and these
    arrangements may not be successful, thereby resulting in
    increased costs, or may adversely affect service levels and our
    public reporting.





    We have outsourced various functions to third parties, including
    certain development and other administrative functions, and may
    outsource additional functions to third-party providers in the
    future. We rely on those third parties to provide services on a
    timely and effective basis. Although we periodically monitor the
    performance of these third parties and maintain contingency
    plans in case the third parties are unable to perform as agreed,
    we do not ultimately control the performance of our outsourcing
    partners. The failure of third-party outsourcing partners to
    perform as expected or as contractually required could result in
    significant disruptions and costs to our operations, which could
    materially adversely affect our business, financial condition,
    operating results and cash flow and our ability to file our
    financial statements with the SEC timely or accurately.


 



    Potential
    tax liabilities may materially adversely affect our
    results.





    We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in
    numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required
    in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the
    ordinary course of our business, we engage in many transactions
    and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is
    uncertain.


 


    We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we
    believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final
    determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be
    materially different from that which is reflected in our income
    tax provisions and accruals. Additional tax assessments
    resulting from audit, litigation, or changes in tax laws may
    result in increased tax provisions or payments which could
    materially adversely affect our business, financial condition,
    operating results and cash flow in the period or periods in
    which that determination is made.



 



    Item 1B