ITEM 1A.        RISK
FACTORS

The following factors
could affect the Company’s operating results and should be considered in
evaluating the Company.

The Company must
identify changing consumer preferences and develop and offer food products to
meet their preferences.

Consumer preferences
evolve over time and the success of the Company’s food products depends on the
Company’s ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to
offer products that appeal to their preferences. Introduction of new products
and product extensions requires significant development and marketing
investment. If the Company’s products fail to meet consumer preference, then
the return on that investment will be less than anticipated and the Company’s
strategy to grow sales and profits with investments in core products will be
less successful.

If the Company does
not achieve the appropriate cost structure in the highly competitive food
industry, its profitability could decrease.

The Company’s success depends in part on its ability
to achieve the appropriate cost structure and be efficient in the highly
competitive food industry. The Company is currently implementing
profit-enhancing initiatives that impact its supply chain and general and
administrative functions. These initiatives are focused on cost savings
opportunities in procurement, manufacturing, logistics and customer service, as
well as general overhead levels. If the Company does not continue to manage
costs and achieve additional efficiencies, its competitiveness and its
profitability could decrease.

The Company’s success is
also dependent on the successful implementation of its strategy to divest
non-core operations that have limited the Company’s ability to achieve its
efficiency targets. The Company completed the divestitures of its Cook’s Ham
and its seafood operations during fiscal 2006 and expects to complete its
divestitures of the packaged meats and cheese businesses in the first half of fiscal
2007. If the Company is not able to continue to successfully alter its asset
portfolio to focus on higher-margin, branded and value-added businesses, its
competitiveness and profitability could decrease.

Increased
competition may result in reduced sales or margin for the Company.

The food industry is
highly competitive, and increased competition can reduce sales for the Company
due to loss of market share or the need to reduce prices to respond to
competitive and customer pressures. Competitive pressures also may restrict the
Company’s ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and
other cost increases. The Company’s profit margins could decrease if a
reduction in prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased
sales volume.


 6










The consolidation
of the Company’s customers has resulted in large sophisticated customers with
increased buying power.

The Company’s customers,
such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated
in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations
have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power and
negotiating strength who are more capable of resisting price increases and
operating with reduced inventories. These customers may also in the future use
more of their shelf space, currently used for Company products, for their
private label products.  The Company is
implementing initiatives to counteract these pressures; however, if the larger
size of these customers results in additional negotiating strength or less
shelf space for Company products, the Company’s profitability could decline.

The Company may be
subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively
impact its profitability.

The Company sells food
products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product
contamination or spoilage, product tampering and other adulteration of food
products. The Company may be subject to liability if the consumption of any of
its products causes injury, illness or death. In addition, the Company will
voluntarily recall products in the event of contamination or damage. In the
past, the Company has issued recalls and has from time to time been involved in
lawsuits relating to its food products. A significant product liability
judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact the Company’s
profitability for a period of time depending on product availability,
competitive reaction and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability claim
is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any
assertion that Company products caused illness or injury could adversely affect
the Company’s reputation with existing and potential customers and its
corporate and brand image.

Commodity price
increases will increase operating costs and may reduce profits.

The Company uses many
different commodities including wheat, corn, oats, soybeans, beef, pork,
poultry, and energy. Commodities are subject to price volatility caused by
commodity market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, and
changes in governmental agricultural programs. Commodity price increases will
result in increases in raw material costs and operating costs. The Company may
not be able to increase its product prices to offset these increased costs, and
increasing prices may result in reduced sales volume and profitability. The
Company has many years’ experience in hedging against commodity price
increases; however, hedging practices reduce but do not eliminate the risk of
increased operating costs from commodity price increases.

The Company’s
information technology resources must provide efficient connections between its
business functions, or its results of operations will be negatively impacted.

Each year the Company
engages in several billion dollars of transactions with its customers and
vendors. Because the amount of dollars involved is so significant, the Company’s
information technology resources must provide connections among its marketing,
sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, and accounting functions. If
the Company does not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to
build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure and to maintain the
related computerized and manual control processes, it could be subject to
billing and collection errors, business disruptions or damage resulting from
security breaches. In 2005, in connection with its implementation of Project  Nucleus, the
Company’s information technology-linking initiative, the Company had short-term
operational challenges during the third quarter of fiscal 2005. If future
implementation problems are encountered, the Company’s results of operations
could be negatively impacted.


 7 





If the Company
fails to comply with the many laws applicable to its business, it may incur
significant fines and penalties.

The Company’s facilities and products are subject to many laws and
regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the
Federal Food and Drug Administration, and other federal, state, local, and
foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage,
distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products. The
Company’s failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject
it to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including
fines, injunctions and recalls of its products. The Company’s operations are
also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered
by the Environmental Protection Agency, which pertain to the discharge of
materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure
to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil
and administrative penalties and negative publicity.

ITEM 1B