ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks and uncertainties described below could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and should be considered in evaluating us. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance, or financial condition in the future.Deterioration of general economic conditions could harm our business and results of operations.Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Volatility in financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact our business and operations in a variety of ways, including as follows:•consumers may shift purchases to more generic, lower-priced, or other value offerings, or may forego certain purchases altogether during economic downturns, which could result in a reduction in sales of higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings adversely affecting the results of our Consumer Foods, Ralcorp Food Group or Ralcorp Frozen Bakery Products operations;•decreased demand in the restaurant business, particularly casual and fine dining, may adversely affect our Commercial Foods operations;•volatility in commodity and other input costs could substantially impact our result of operations;•volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially impact our pension costs and required pension contributions; and•it may become more costly or difficult to obtain debt or equity financing to fund operations or investment opportunities, or to refinance our debt in the future, in each case on terms and within a time period acceptable to us.We may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the acquisition of Ralcorp Holdings, Inc.The benefits that are expected to result from the acquisition, which we refer to as the Acquisition, of Ralcorp Holdings, Inc., or Ralcorp, will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies as a result of the Acquisition.Our success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of Ralcorp. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition as sizable as Ralcorp. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of Ralcorp and ConAgra Foods. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our company, service existing customers, attract new customers, and develop new products or strategies. If senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. There can be no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate Ralcorp. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we are able to integrate Ralcorp successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that we currently expect from this integration, and we cannot guarantee that these benefits will be achieved within anticipated time frames or at all. For example, we may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs. Moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of Ralcorp. While it is anticipated that certain expenses will be incurred to achieve cost synergies, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. Accordingly, the benefits from the Acquisition may be offset by costs incurred to, or delays in, integrating the businesses.7Table of ContentsOur existing and future debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. As of May 26, 2013, we had a substantial amount of debt, including $3.795 billion of senior notes that we issued, and a $900 million term loan that we entered into, in connection with the Acquisition. We have the ability under our existing revolving credit facility to incur substantial additional debt. Our level of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; •increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. Additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt, or failure to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in an event of default under the terms of those instruments and a downgrade to our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper. In the event of a default, the holders of our debt could elect to declare all the amounts outstanding under such instruments to be due and payable. Any default under the agreements governing our debt and the remedies sought by the holders of such debt could render us unable to pay principal and interest on our debt. Increases in commodity costs may have a negative impact on profits.We use many different commodities such as wheat, corn, oats, soybeans, beef, pork, poultry, and energy. Commodities are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, external conditions such as weather, and changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations. Commodity price increases will result in increases in raw material, packaging, and energy costs and operating costs. We may not be able to increase our product prices and achieve cost savings that fully offset these increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced sales volume, reduced margins, and profitability. We have experience in hedging against commodity price increases; however, these practices and experience reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of negative profit impacts from commodity price increases. We do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and the risk management procedures that we do use may not always work as we intend.Volatility in the market value of derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices will cause volatility in our gross margins and net earnings. We utilize derivatives to manage price risk for some of our principal ingredients and energy costs, including grains (wheat, corn, and oats), oils, beef, pork, poultry, and energy.  Changes in the values of these derivatives are recorded in earnings currently, resulting in volatility in both gross margin and net earnings. These gains and losses are reported in cost of sales in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings and in unallocated corporate items in our segment operating results until we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment operating profit. We also record our grain inventories at fair value. We may experience volatile earnings as a result of these accounting treatments. Increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits.The food industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources. Increased competition can reduce our sales due to loss of market share or the need to reduce prices to respond to competitive and customer pressures. Competitive pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other cost increases. We sell branded, private brand, and customized food products, as well as commercially branded foods and ingredients. Our branded products have an advantage over private brand products primarily due to advertising and name recognition, although private brand products typically sell at a discount to those of branded competitors. In addition, when branded competitors focus on price and promotion, the environment for private brand producers becomes more challenging because the price difference between private brand products and branded products may become less significant. In most product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with other private label and store brand products that are generally sold at lower prices. A strong competitive response from one or more of our competitors to our marketplace efforts, or a consumer shift towards more generic, lower-priced, or other value offerings, could result in us reducing pricing, increasing marketing or 8Table of Contentsother expenditures, or losing market share. Our profits could decrease if a reduction in prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased sales volume.  Significant private brand competitive activity can lead to price declines. Some private brand customer buying decisions are based on a periodic bidding process in which the successful bidder is assured the selling of its selected product to the retail customer until the next bidding process. Our sales volume may decrease significantly if our offer is too high and we lose the ability to sell private brand products through these channels, even temporarily. Alternatively, we risk reducing our margins if our offer is successful but below our desired price points. Either of these outcomes may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers could adversely affect us.During fiscal 2013, our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for approximately 17% of our net revenues. There can be no assurance that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and other significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations.Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our ability to make, move, and sell our products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our supply chain, including third-party manufacturing or transportation and distribution capabilities, due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, government action, or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and business partners, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single supplier or location, could adversely affect our business or financial results. In addition, disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes regarding pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations.The sophistication and buying power of our customers could have a negative impact on profits.Our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors, have continued to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers on which we can rely for business. These consolidations and the growth of supercenters have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power and negotiating strength who are more capable of resisting price increases and can demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, or specialty tailored products. In addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. These customers may also in the future use more of their shelf space, currently used for our products, for their store brand products. We continue to implement initiatives to counteract these pressures. However, if the larger size of these customers results in additional negotiating strength and/or increased private label or store brand competition, our profitability could decline.Consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers' business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. For example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases. We must identify changing consumer preferences and develop and offer food products to meet their preferences.Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our food products depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences, including concerns of consumers regarding health and wellness, obesity, product attributes, and ingredients. Introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on that investment will be less than anticipated and our strategy to grow sales and profits with investments in marketing and innovation will be less successful. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, trans fats, sugar, processed wheat, or other product ingredients or attributes.9Table of ContentsIf we do not achieve the appropriate cost structure in the highly competitive food industry, our profitability could decrease.Our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to achieve the appropriate cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food industry, particularly in an environment of volatile input costs. We continue to implement profit-enhancing initiatives that impact our supply chain and general and administrative functions. These initiatives are focused on cost-saving opportunities in procurement, manufacturing, logistics, and customer service, as well as general and administrative overhead levels. Gaining additional efficiencies may become more difficult over time. Our failure to reduce costs through productivity gains or by eliminating redundant costs resulting from acquisitions could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position. If we do not continue to effectively manage costs and achieve additional efficiencies, our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease.We may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact our profitability.We sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering, other adulteration of food products, mislabeling, and misbranding. We may be subject to liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness, or death. In addition, we will voluntarily recall products in the event of contamination or damage. We have issued recalls and have from time to time been and currently are involved in lawsuits relating to our food products. A significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on the costs of the recall, the destruction of product inventory, product availability, competitive reaction, and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image.Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our products. Product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety, and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling or contamination, even if untrue, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social, and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities; the failure to achieve our goals with respect to sodium or saturated fat; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use, and waste management; or our responses to any of the foregoing. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.Our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor, and people-related expenses.Inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. Our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plans. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. Additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements.If we fail to comply with the many laws applicable to our business, we may face lawsuits or incur significant fines and penalties.Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products, the health and safety of our employees, and the protection of the environment. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative penalties, and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. Our operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, which pertain to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and 10Table of Contentsadministrative penalties and negative publicity. Changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, including increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations for us, which could affect our profitability or impede the production or distribution of our products, which could affect our net operating revenues.Climate change, or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations.There is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as corn, wheat, and potatoes. We may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. In addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. The increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. In the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. As a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations.We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and potential disruption, cyber attacks, security problems, and expanding social media vehicles present new risks.We are increasingly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure and to maintain and protect the related automated and manual control processes, we could be subject to billing and collection errors, business disruptions, or damage resulting from security breaches. If any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. In addition, there is a risk of business interruption, litigation risks, and reputational damage from leakage of confidential information. The inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage. Negative posts or comments about the Company on any social networking web site could seriously damage its reputation. In addition, the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss. Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges. Any business interruptions or damage to our reputation could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and the market price of our common stock.If existing anti-dumping measures imposed against certain foreign imports of dry pasta terminate, we will face increased competition from foreign companies and the profit margins or market share of our pasta products could be adversely affected. Anti-dumping and countervailing duties on certain Italian and Turkish imports imposed by the United States Department of Commerce in 1996 enable our pasta business and its domestic competitors to compete more favorably against Italian and Turkish producers in the U.S. pasta market. In September 2007, the U.S. International Trade Commission extended the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders for an additional five years, through 2012, and is in the process of conducting reviews to determine whether to revoke the orders. If the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders are repealed or foreign producers sell competing pasta products in the United States at prices lower than ours or enter the U.S. market by establishing production facilities in the United States, the result would further increase competition in the U.S. pasta market and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In connection with Ralcorp's separation of its Post brand cereals business, Post agreed to indemnify Ralcorp for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Post's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations will not be impaired in the future. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and the tax sharing agreement that Ralcorp entered into with Post in connection with the separation of Ralcorp's Post brand cereals business, Post agreed to indemnify Ralcorp for certain liabilities. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Post agreed to retain or assume, and there can be no 11Table of Contentsassurance that the indemnification from Post will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Post will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. In addition, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Post any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. The separation of the Post brand cereals business could result in significant tax liability. In February 2012, Ralcorp separated Post into a new, publicly traded company through a distribution of shares of Post common stock to Ralcorp shareholders. Ralcorp obtained a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that the distribution of shares of Post common stock in the spin-off qualified as tax free to Post, Ralcorp, and Ralcorp's shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the factual assumptions or representations made in the request for the private letter ruling prove to have been inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS does not rule on whether a distribution such as the spin-off satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment. Rather, the private letter ruling was based on representations by Ralcorp that those requirements were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. In connection with the spin-off, Ralcorp also obtained an opinion of outside counsel substantially to the effect that the distribution of shares of Post common stock in the separation qualified as tax free to Post, Ralcorp, and Ralcorp's shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The opinion relied on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Post and Ralcorp which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the separation were determined not to qualify as tax free, each U.S. holder of Ralcorp common stock who received shares of Post common stock in the separation would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of Post common stock received. In that case, we would be subject to tax as if Ralcorp had sold all the outstanding shares of Post common stock in a taxable sale for their fair market value and would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares at the time of the separation over Ralcorp's tax basis in such shares. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement Ralcorp entered into with Post in connection with the separation, Post is generally responsible for any taxes imposed on Post or Ralcorp and its subsidiaries in the event that the separation and certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment as a result of actions taken, or breaches of representations and warranties made in the tax sharing agreement, by Post or any of its affiliates. However, if the separation or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or failures to act by us or any of our affiliates, we would be responsible for all such taxes.Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles could negatively impact our net worth. The net carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable). The net carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, customer relationships, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable), net of accumulated amortization. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. Amortized intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. Impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as the inability to quickly replace lost co-manufacturing business, increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry EBITDA multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.), or the bankruptcy of a significant customer and could negatively impact our net worth. The termination or expiration of current co-manufacturing arrangements could reduce our sales volume and adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses periodically enter into co-manufacturing arrangements with manufacturers of branded products. The terms of these agreements vary but are generally for relatively short periods of time. Volumes produced under each of these agreements can fluctuate significantly based upon the product's life cycle, product promotions, alternative production capacity, and other factors, none of which are under our direct control. Our future ability to enter into co-manufacturing arrangements is not guaranteed, and a decrease in current co-manufacturing levels could have a significant negative impact on sales volume.12Table of ContentsOur pending Ardent Mills joint venture with Cargill and CHS may not be completed.The closing of our pending Ardent Mills joint venture with Cargill, Incorporated and CHS Inc. is subject to various conditions to closing, including the receipt of certain financing, the receipt of certain governmental approvals related to antitrust in applicable foreign jurisdictions, the absence of any pending proceeding initiated by any governmental entity seeking to enjoin the closing, and other customary closing conditions, such as those relating to the accuracy of representations and warranties and compliance with covenants. These closing conditions may not be satisfied, and in that circumstance we may be unable or unwilling to complete this joint venture. Ardent Mills may not achieve the benefits that are anticipated from the joint venture.The benefits that are expected to result from the pending Ardent Mills joint venture will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated cost synergies in the transaction, Ardent Mills' ability to successfully integrate the ConAgra Mills and Horizon Milling businesses and its ability to successfully manage the joint venture on a going-forward basis. It is not certain that we will realize these benefits at all, and if we do, it is not certain how long it will take to achieve these benefits. If, for example, we are unable to achieve the anticipated cost savings, or if there are unforeseen integration costs, or if Ardent Mills is unable to operate the joint venture smoothly in the future, the financial performance of the joint venture may be negatively affected.If we are unable to complete proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected.From time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. If we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives, or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. We may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. Gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may affect our profitability. Moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce our profitability.Our acquisition or divestiture activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. Those risks include diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, effective and immediate implementation of control environment processes across our employee population, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings, potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. Any of these factors could affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations.13Table of ContentsITEM 1B