ITEM 1A.    

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    The following factors could affect our operating results and
    should be considered in evaluating us.


 



    Deterioration
    of general economic conditions could harm our business and
    results of operations.


 


    Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected
    by changes in national or global economic conditions, including
    inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets,
    consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs
    (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental
    initiatives to manage economic conditions.


 


    The continued volatility in financial markets and the
    deterioration of national and global economic conditions could
    impact our business and operations in a variety of ways,
    including as follows:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    consumers may shift purchases to lower-priced private label or
    other value offerings or may forego certain purchases altogether
    during economic downturns, which may adversely affect the
    results of our Consumer Foods operations;




 



     
        •  

    
    decreased demand in the restaurant business, particularly casual
    and fine dining, may adversely affect our Commercial Foods
    operations;




 



     
        •  

    
    volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could
    substantially impact our pension costs and required pension
    contributions;




 



     
        •  

    
    it may become more costly or difficult to obtain debt or equity
    financing to fund operations or investment opportunities, or to
    refinance our debt in the future, in each case on terms and
    within a time period acceptable to us; and




 



     
        •  

    
    a downgrade to our credit ratings would increase our borrowing
    costs and could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our
    short-term and longer-term borrowing needs.





 



    Increases
    in commodity costs may have a negative impact on
    profits.


 


    We use many different commodities such as wheat, corn, oats,
    soybeans, beef, pork, poultry, and energy. Commodities are
    subject to price volatility caused by commodity market
    fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, and
    changes in governmental agricultural programs. Commodity price
    increases will result in increases in raw material costs and
    operating costs. We may not be able to increase our product
    prices and achieve cost savings that fully offset these
    increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced
    sales volume and profitability. We have experience in hedging
    against commodity price increases; however, these practices and
    experience reduce but do not eliminate the risk of negative
    profit impacts from commodity price increases.


 



    Increased
    competition may result in reduced sales or profits.


 


    The food industry is highly competitive, and increased
    competition can reduce our sales due to loss of market share or
    the need to reduce prices to respond to competitive and customer
    pressures. Competitive pressures also may restrict our ability
    to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other
    cost increases. Our profits could decrease if a reduction in
    prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased
    sales volume.


 



    The
    sophistication and buying power of our customers could have a
    negative impact on profits.


 


    Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs,
    and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and
    consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations and
    the growth of supercenters have produced large, sophisticated
    customers with increased buying power and negotiating strength
    who are more capable of resisting price increases and operating
    with reduced inventories. These customers may also in the future
    use more of their shelf space, currently used for our products,
    for their private label products. We continue to implement
    initiatives to counteract these pressures. However, if the
    larger size of these customers results in additional negotiating
    strength
    and/or
    increased private label competition, our profitability could
    decline.



    
    7



Table of Contents





    We must
    identify changing consumer preferences and develop and offer
    food products to meet their preferences.


 


    Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our
    food products depends on our ability to identify the tastes and
    dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to
    their preferences. Introduction of new products and product
    extensions requires significant development and marketing
    investment. If our products fail to meet consumer preference,
    then the return on that investment will be less than anticipated
    and our strategy to grow sales and profits with investments in
    marketing and innovation will be less successful.


 



    If we do
    not achieve the appropriate cost structure in the highly
    competitive food industry, our profitability could
    decrease.


 


    Our success depends in part on our ability to achieve the
    appropriate cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly
    competitive food industry, particularly in an environment of
    volatile input costs. We continue to implement profit-enhancing
    initiatives that impact our supply chain and general and
    administrative functions. These initiatives are focused on
    cost-saving opportunities in procurement, manufacturing,
    logistics, and customer service, as well as general and
    administrative overhead levels. If we do not continue to
    effectively manage costs and achieve additional efficiencies,
    our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease.


 



    We may be
    subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which
    could negatively impact our profitability.


 


    We sell food products for human consumption, which involves
    risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product
    tampering, and other adulteration of food products. We may be
    subject to liability if the consumption of any of our products
    causes injury, illness, or death. In addition, we will
    voluntarily recall products in the event of contamination or
    damage. In the past, we have issued recalls and have from time
    to time been and currently are involved in lawsuits relating to
    our food products. A significant product liability judgment or a
    widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and
    profitability for a period of time depending on product
    availability, competitive reaction, and consumer attitudes. Even
    if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully
    pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that
    our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our
    reputation with existing and potential customers and our
    corporate and brand image.


 



    If we
    fail to comply with the many laws applicable to our business, we
    may face lawsuits or incur significant fines and
    penalties.


 


    Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and
    regulations administered by the United States Department of
    Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the
    Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other
    federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies
    relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution,
    advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products and
    health and safety of our employees. Our failure to comply with
    applicable laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits,
    administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies,
    including fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. Our
    operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly
    stringent regulations administered by the Environmental
    Protection Agency, which pertain to the discharge of materials
    into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes.
    Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious
    consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and
    negative publicity.


 



    Our
    information technology resources must provide efficient
    connections between our business functions, or our results of
    operations will be negatively impacted.


 


    Each year we engage in billions of dollars of transactions with
    our customers and vendors. Because the amount of dollars
    involved is so significant, our information technology resources
    must provide connections among our marketing, sales,
    manufacturing, logistics, customer service, and accounting
    functions. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the
    resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology
    infrastructure and to maintain the related automated and manual
    control processes, we could be subject to billing and collection
    errors, business disruptions, or damage resulting from security
    breaches. We are currently implementing new financial and
    operational information technology systems. Some systems were
    placed into production during fiscal 2008 and



    
    8



Table of Contents




    2009. Additional changes and enhancements will be placed into
    production at various times in fiscal 2010. If future
    implementation problems are encountered, our results of
    operations could be negatively impacted.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B