ITEM 1A.    

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    The following risks and uncertainties could affect our operating
    results and should be considered in evaluating us. While we
    believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk
    factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks
    and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not
    currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect
    our business, performance, or financial condition in the future.


 



    Deterioration
    of general economic conditions could harm our business and
    results of operations.


 


    Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected
    by changes in national or global economic conditions, including
    inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets,
    consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs
    (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental
    initiatives to manage economic conditions.


 


    Volatility in financial markets and deterioration of national
    and global economic conditions could impact our business and
    operations in a variety of ways, including as follows:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    consumers may shift purchases to lower-priced private label or
    other value offerings, or may forego certain purchases
    altogether during economic downturns, which may adversely affect
    the results of our Consumer Foods operations;




 



     
        •  

    
    decreased demand in the restaurant business, particularly casual
    and fine dining, may adversely affect our Commercial Foods
    operations;




 



     
        •  

    
    volatility in commodity and other input costs could
    substantially impact our result of operations;




 



     
        •  

    
    volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could
    substantially impact our pension costs and required pension
    contributions; and




 



     
        •  

    
    it may become more costly or difficult to obtain debt or equity
    financing to fund operations or investment opportunities, or to
    refinance our debt in the future, in each case on terms and
    within a time period acceptable to us.





 



    Increases
    in commodity costs may have a negative impact on
    profits.


 


    We use many different commodities such as wheat, corn, oats,
    soybeans, beef, pork, poultry, and energy. Commodities are
    subject to price volatility caused by commodity market
    fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, and
    changes in governmental agricultural programs. Commodity price
    increases will result in increases in raw material costs and
    operating costs. We may not be able to increase our product
    prices and achieve cost savings that fully offset these
    increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced
    sales volume and profitability. We have experience in hedging
    against commodity price increases; however, these practices and
    experience reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of negative
    profit impacts from commodity price increases.


 



    Increased
    competition may result in reduced sales or profits.


 


    The food industry is highly competitive, and increased
    competition can reduce our sales due to loss of market share or
    the need to reduce prices to respond to competitive and customer
    pressures. Competitive pressures also may restrict our ability
    to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other
    cost increases. In most product categories, we compete not only
    with other widely advertised branded products, but also with
    private label products that are generally sold at lower prices.
    A strong competitive response from one or more of our
    competitors to our marketplace efforts, or a consumer shift
    towards private label offerings, could result in us reducing
    pricing, increasing marketing or other expenditures, or losing
    market share. Our profits could decrease if a reduction in
    prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased
    sales volume.




    
    9



Table of Contents






    The
    sophistication and buying power of our customers could have a
    negative impact on profits.


 


    Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs,
    and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and
    consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations and
    the growth of supercenters have produced large, sophisticated
    customers with increased buying power and negotiating strength
    who are more capable of resisting price increases and operating
    with reduced inventories. These customers may also in the future
    use more of their shelf space, currently used for our products,
    for their private label products. We continue to implement
    initiatives to counteract these pressures. However, if the
    larger size of these customers results in additional negotiating
    strength
    and/or
    increased private label competition, our profitability could
    decline.


 



    We must
    identify changing consumer preferences and develop and offer
    food products to meet their preferences.


 


    Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our
    food products depends on our ability to identify the tastes and
    dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to
    their preferences, including concerns of consumers regarding
    health and wellness, obesity, product attributes, and
    ingredients. Introduction of new products and product extensions
    requires significant development and marketing investment. If
    our products fail to meet consumer preference, or we fail to
    introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the
    return on that investment will be less than anticipated and our
    strategy to grow sales and profits with investments in marketing
    and innovation will be less successful. Similarly, demand for
    our products could be affected by consumer concerns regarding
    the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, trans fats,
    sugar, processed wheat, or other product ingredients or
    attributes.


 



    If we do
    not achieve the appropriate cost structure in the highly
    competitive food industry, our profitability could
    decrease.


 


    Our success depends in part on our ability to achieve the
    appropriate cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly
    competitive food industry, particularly in an environment of
    volatile input costs. We continue to implement profit-enhancing
    initiatives that impact our supply chain and general and
    administrative functions. These initiatives are focused on
    cost-saving opportunities in procurement, manufacturing,
    logistics, and customer service, as well as general and
    administrative overhead levels. If we do not continue to
    effectively manage costs and achieve additional efficiencies,
    our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease.


 



    We may be
    subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which
    could negatively impact our profitability.


 


    We sell food products for human consumption, which involves
    risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product
    tampering, and other adulteration of food products. We may be
    subject to liability if the consumption of any of our products
    causes injury, illness, or death. In addition, we will
    voluntarily recall products in the event of contamination or
    damage. We have issued recalls and have from time to time been
    and currently are involved in lawsuits relating to our food
    products. A significant product liability judgment or a
    widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and
    profitability for a period of time depending on product
    availability, competitive reaction, and consumer attitudes. Even
    if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully
    pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that
    our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our
    reputation with existing and potential customers and our
    corporate and brand image.


 



    We may
    not successfully complete proposed acquisitions or divestitures
    or integrate acquired businesses.


 


    From time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may
    strategically fit our business objectives. If we are unable to
    complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop
    acquired businesses, our financial results could be materially
    and adversely affected. In addition, we may divest businesses
    that do not meet our strategic objectives, or do not meet our
    growth or profitability targets. We may not be able to complete
    desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. Gains
    or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those
    businesses may affect our profitability. Moreover, we may incur
    asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures
    that reduce our profitability.




    
    10



Table of Contents





    Our acquisition or divestiture activities may present financial,
    managerial, and operational risks. Those risks include diversion
    of management attention from existing businesses, difficulties
    integrating or separating personnel and financial and other
    systems, effective and immediate implementation of control
    environment processes across our employee population, adverse
    effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and
    customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the
    accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired
    intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings,
    potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired
    businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the
    buyers or sellers. Any of these factors could affect our product
    sales, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    If we
    fail to comply with the many laws applicable to our business, we
    may face lawsuits or incur significant fines and
    penalties.


 


    Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and
    regulations administered by the United States Department of
    Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the
    Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other
    federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies
    relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution,
    advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products, the
    health and safety of our employees, and the protection of the
    environment. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and
    regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative
    penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including
    fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. Our operations
    are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent
    regulations administered by the Environmental Protection Agency,
    which pertain to the discharge of materials into the environment
    and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure to comply
    with these regulations can have serious consequences, including
    civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity.
    Changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving
    interpretations thereof, including increased government
    regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas
    emissions as a result of concern over climate change, may result
    in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other
    financial obligations for us, which could affect our
    profitability or impede the production or distribution of our
    products, which could affect our net operating revenues.


 



    Our
    information technology resources must provide efficient
    connections between our business functions, or our results of
    operations will be negatively impacted.


 


    Each year we engage in billions of dollars of transactions with
    our customers and vendors. Because the amount of dollars
    involved is so significant, our information technology resources
    must provide connections among our marketing, sales,
    manufacturing, logistics, customer service, and accounting
    functions. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the
    resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology
    infrastructure and to maintain the related automated and manual
    control processes, we could be subject to billing and collection
    errors, business disruptions, or damage resulting from security
    breaches. We began implementing new financial and operational
    information technology systems in fiscal 2008 and placed systems
    into production during fiscal 2008, 2009, 2010, and 2011. If
    future implementation problems are encountered, our results of
    operations could be negatively impacted.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B