Item 1A — Risk Factors”)
    and in Exhibit 99.1 to this
    Form 10-K.
    Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, the
    Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any
    forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
    information, future events, or otherwise.







 



    PART I








 




    
    



    
    Item 1:  

    
    Business





 



    General


 


    Cardinal Health, Inc. is an Ohio corporation formed in 1979. As
    used in this report, the terms the “Registrant,” the
    “Company” and “Cardinal Health” refer to
    Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context
    requires otherwise. The Company is a leading provider of
    products and services that improve the safety and productivity
    of healthcare. Except as otherwise specified, information in
    this report is provided as of June 30, 2007 (the end of the
    Company’s fiscal year).


 


    The description of the Company’s business in this
    Item 1 should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
    financial statements and supplementary data included in this
    Form 10-K.


 



    Reportable
    Segments


 



    Fiscal
    2007 Changes to Reportable Segments


 


    The Company changed its reportable segments beginning with the
    first quarter of fiscal 2007. As of June 30, 2006, the
    Company conducted its business within the following four
    reportable segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider
    Services; Medical Products and Services; Pharmaceutical
    Technologies and Services; and Clinical Technologies and
    Services. Effective the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the
    Company began reporting its financial information within the
    following five reportable segments: Healthcare Supply Chain
    Services — Pharmaceutical; Healthcare Supply Chain
    Services — Medical; Clinical Technologies and
    Services; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Medical
    Products Manufacturing.


 


    During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company committed
    to plans to sell the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services
    segment, other than certain generic-focused businesses (the
    segment, excluding the certain generic-focused businesses not
    held for sale, is referred to as the “PTS Business”).
    The Company completed the sale of the PTS Business during the
    fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. The following is an explanation
    of the fiscal 2007 changes, if any, from the Company’s
    reportable segments as of June 30, 2006:


 


    Healthcare Supply Chain Services —
    Pharmaceutical.  The Healthcare Supply Chain
    Services — Pharmaceutical segment encompasses the
    businesses previously within the former Pharmaceutical
    Distribution and Provider Services segment, in addition to the
    nuclear pharmacy, third-party logistics support and certain
    generic-focused businesses previously within the former
    Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment and the
    therapeutic plasma distribution capabilities previously within
    the former Medical Products and Services segment.


 


    Healthcare Supply Chain Services —
    Medical.  The Healthcare Supply Chain
    Services — Medical segment encompasses the
    Company’s medical products distribution business and the
    assembly of sterile and non-sterile procedure kits previously
    within the former Medical Products and Services segment.



    
    3



Table of Contents




    Clinical Technologies and Services.  There were
    no changes to the Clinical Technologies and Services segment.


 


    Medical Products Manufacturing.  The Medical
    Products Manufacturing segment encompasses the medical and
    surgical products manufacturing businesses previously within the
    former Medical Products and Services segment.


 


    The revised segment reporting discussed above is reflected
    throughout this report for all periods presented. Historical
    figures are presented in a manner that is consistent with the
    revised segment reporting.


 


    The four segments align within two major sectors: Healthcare
    Supply Chain Services and Clinical and Medical Products.
    Healthcare Supply Chain Services includes the Healthcare Supply
    Chain Services — Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Supply
    Chain Services — Medical segments, and is focused on
    the Company’s foundational logistics and distribution
    capabilities. Clinical and Medical Products includes the
    Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products
    Manufacturing segments, and is focused on higher-margin,
    faster-growing medical products businesses.


 


    The following discussion is based on the four reportable
    segments as they were structured as of and for the fiscal year
    ended June 30, 2007.


 



    Healthcare
    Supply Chain Services — Pharmaceutical


 


    General.  Through its Healthcare Supply
    Chain Services — Pharmaceutical segment, the Company
    distributes a broad line of branded and generic pharmaceutical
    products, over-the-counter healthcare products and consumer
    products (collectively, “pharmaceutical products”).
    The Company’s pharmaceutical supply chain business
    (formerly referred to as the pharmaceutical distribution
    business) is one of the country’s leading full-service
    wholesale distributors to retail customers (including chain and
    independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets
    and mass merchandisers), hospitals and alternate care providers
    (including mail order pharmacies) located throughout the United
    States. As a full-service wholesale distributor, the
    pharmaceutical supply chain business complements its
    distribution activities by offering a broad range of support
    services to assist its customers in maintaining and helping to
    improve the efficiency and quality of their services. These
    support services include, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    online procurement, fulfillment and information provided through
    cardinal.com;



 


     
        • 

    
    computerized order entry and order confirmation systems;



 


     
        • 

    
    generic sourcing programs;



 


     
        • 

    
    product movement, inventory and management reports; and



 


     
        • 

    
    consultation on store operations and merchandising.





 


    The Company’s proprietary software systems feature
    customized databases specially designed to help its distribution
    customers order more efficiently, contain costs and monitor
    their purchases.


 


    In addition, this segment’s pharmaceutical supply chain
    business provides services to branded pharmaceutical
    manufacturers through distribution service agreements, including
    distribution services, inventory management services,
    data/reporting services, new product launch support and contract
    and chargeback administration services. This segment also
    operates a pharmaceutical repackaging and distribution program
    for chain and independent drug store customers as well as
    alternate care customers.


 


    This segment operates centralized nuclear pharmacies that
    prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear
    imaging and other procedures in hospitals and clinics. This
    segment also provides third-party logistics support services,
    distributes therapeutic plasma to hospitals, clinics and other
    providers located in the United States and manufactures and
    markets generic pharmaceutical products for sale to hospitals,
    clinics and pharmacies in the United Kingdom. After acquiring
    SpecialtyScripts, LLC (“SpecialtyScripts”) during
    fiscal 2007, this segment operates a specialty pharmacy
    providing prescription fulfillment and clinical care services
    directly to individual patients requiring highly intensive
    therapies.



    
    4



Table of Contents




    Through this segment, the Company is a franchisor of
    apothecary-style retail pharmacies through its Medicine Shoppe
    International, Inc. and Medicap Pharmacies Incorporated
    (“Medicap,” and together with Medicine Shoppe
    International, Inc., “Medicine Shoppe”) franchise
    systems in the United States and abroad. Medicine Shoppe also
    owns and operates a limited number of retail pharmacy locations.


 


    Pharmaceutical supply chain business
    model.  This segment’s pharmaceutical
    supply chain business maintains prime vendor relationships with
    its customers that streamline the purchasing process by reducing
    the number of vendors. Using a prime vendor offers customers
    logistical savings and fosters partnerships between the
    customers and distributor that result in greater efficiency and
    lower costs.


 


    Five primary factors influence the pharmaceutical supply chain
    business’ gross margin for pharmaceutical products:
    customer discounts, manufacturer cash discounts, distribution
    service agreement fees, pharmaceutical price appreciation and
    manufacturer rebates and incentives.


 


    In general, the Company sells pharmaceutical products to its
    customers at a contract price below the manufacturer’s
    published price or another designated price at the time of sale
    (in either case, the “manufacturer’s designated
    price”). The term “customer discounts” refers to
    the difference in dollars between the sales price to customers
    for pharmaceutical products (net of discounts, rebates and
    incentives given to customers) and the manufacturer’s
    designated price for those pharmaceutical products sold in a
    particular period.


 


    The term “manufacturer cash discounts” refers to the
    aggregate amount in dollars of cash incentives the Company
    receives from manufacturers for prompt payment of invoices.
    Manufacturer cash discounts are typically a fixed percentage of
    purchases from the manufacturer.


 


    The term “distribution service agreement fees” refers
    to aggregate fees paid by manufacturers for services provided by
    the Company related to the distribution of the
    manufacturers’ products. The Company’s fee-for-service
    arrangements are reflected in written distribution service
    agreements, and may be a fee or a fee plus pharmaceutical price
    appreciation (as described below). In certain instances, the
    Company must achieve certain performance criteria to receive the
    maximum fees under the agreement. The fee is typically a fixed
    percentage of either the Company’s purchases from the
    manufacturer or the Company’s sales of the
    manufacturer’s products to its customers.


 


    The term “pharmaceutical price appreciation” refers to
    the impact on gross margin in dollars of pharmaceutical price
    appreciation for products sold during a particular period. The
    impact happens when the Company is able to purchase inventory,
    hold that inventory when a manufacturer increases the price and
    sell that product at the higher price. The Company continues to
    generate gross margin from the sale of some manufacturers’
    products from pharmaceutical price appreciation without
    receiving distribution service agreement fees. If the frequency
    or rate of pharmaceutical price appreciation slows, the
    Company’s results of operations and financial condition
    could be adversely affected.


 


    The term “manufacturer rebates and incentives” refers
    to discounts the Company receives from manufacturers as a result
    of competition among manufacturers, including manufacturers of
    generic pharmaceuticals, in pricing their products. Manufacturer
    rebates and incentives are based on either the Company’s
    purchases from the manufacturer or the Company’s sales of
    the manufacturer’s products to its customers. The Company
    may receive other incentives from manufacturers of generic
    pharmaceuticals for an improved position of the
    manufacturers’ products in the Company’s various
    generic formulary programs. (A formulary program is a generic
    pharmaceutical purchasing program that helps pharmacies maximize
    their cost savings with a broad selection of rebate-eligible and
    lower-priced generic pharmaceuticals.) The Company generally
    earns the highest margins on generic pharmaceuticals during the
    period immediately following the initial launch of a generic
    product in the marketplace because generic pharmaceutical
    selling prices are generally deflationary.


 


    In sum, the Company’s pharmaceutical supply chain business
    generates gross margin primarily to the extent that the selling
    price to its customers, net of customer discounts, exceeds in
    the aggregate cost of products sold, net of manufacturer cash
    discounts, distribution service agreement fees, pharmaceutical
    price appreciation and manufacturer rebates and incentives.



    
    5



Table of Contents




    With respect to its customers, the Healthcare Supply Chain
    Services — Pharmaceutical segment differentiates
    between bulk and non-bulk customers because bulk customers
    generate significantly lower segment profit as a percentage of
    revenue than that generated by non-bulk customers. Bulk
    customers consist of customers’ centralized warehouse
    operations and customers’ mail order businesses. All other
    customers are classified as non-bulk customers (for example,
    retail stores, pharmacies, hospitals and alternate care sites).
    Bulk customers include the warehouse operations of retail chains
    whose retail stores are classified as non-bulk customers.


 


    See “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” for additional information about the
    pharmaceutical supply chain business model.


 



    Healthcare
    Supply Chain Services — Medical


 


    Through its Healthcare Supply Chain Services — Medical
    segment, the Company distributes a broad range of branded and
    private-label medical and laboratory products, as well as the
    Company’s own line of surgical and respiratory therapy
    products manufactured or sold by the Medical Products
    Manufacturing segment to hospitals, laboratories and ambulatory
    care customers, such as surgery centers and physician offices.
    This segment distributes products both in the United States and
    in Canada.


 


    This segment helps assist customers to reduce costs while
    improving the quality of patient care in a variety of ways,
    including online procurement, fulfillment and information
    provided through cardinal.com and supply-chain management. This
    segment also assembles and distributes sterile and non-sterile
    procedure kits under the
    Presource®
    brand name.


 



    Clinical
    Technologies and Services


 


    Through its Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the
    Company provides products and services to hospitals and other
    healthcare providers. This segment develops, manufactures,
    leases and sells medical technology products, including
    Alaris®
    intravenous medication safety and infusion therapy delivery
    systems, software applications, needle-free disposables and
    related patient monitoring equipment and
    Pyxis®
    dispensing systems that automate the distribution and management
    of medications in hospitals and other healthcare facilities. The
    segment also develops, manufactures, leases and sells dispensing
    systems for medical supplies.


 


    This segment provides pharmacy services, including full-service
    department outsourcing, transitional and turn-key services for
    acute care hospital pharmacies, as well as remote medication
    order entry and review and other services. After acquiring
    MedMined, Inc. (“MedMined”) and Care Fusion
    Incorporated (“Care Fusion”) during fiscal 2007, this
    segment also provides clinical intelligence solutions, including
    products and services that identify and prevent
    hospital-acquired infections and provide barcode-enabled patient
    identification systems used in hospitals.


 


    This segment primarily distributes its products direct to the
    customer, although it also distributes some products through
    medical products distributors, including through the Healthcare
    Supply Chain Services — Medical segment. This segment
    offers products and services principally in the United States
    and also in Europe, Canada and other regions.


 



    Medical
    Products Manufacturing


 


    Through its Medical Products Manufacturing segment, the Company
    develops and manufactures medical and surgical products for
    distribution to hospitals, physician offices, surgery centers
    and other healthcare providers. These products include infection
    prevention products, such as single-use surgical drapes, gowns
    and apparel, exam and surgical gloves and fluid suction and
    collection systems, and medical specialties products, such as
    respiratory therapy products, surgical instruments and special
    procedure products. After acquiring VIASYS Healthcare Inc.
    (“Viasys”) during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007,
    this segment now offers additional products and services
    directed at the critical care ventilation, respiratory
    diagnostics and clinical services, neurological, vascular,
    audio, homecare, orthopedics, sleep diagnostics and other
    medical and surgical products markets. In connection with the
    Viasys acquisition, this segment will be referred to as the
    Medical Products and Technologies segment beginning with the
    first quarter of fiscal 2008.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    This segment primarily distributes its products through medical
    products distributors, including through the Company’s
    Healthcare Supply Chain Services — Medical segment. It
    also distributes some products direct to the customer. This
    segment offers products and services principally in the United
    States and also in Europe, Canada and other regions.


 


    For information on comparative segment revenue, profits and
    related financial information, see Note 17 of “Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which is
    incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    The Company’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are made
    available free of charge on the Company’s website
    (www.cardinalhealth.com, under the “Investors —
    SEC filings” captions) as soon as reasonably practicable
    after the Company electronically files these materials with, or
    furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
    “SEC”).


 



    Acquisitions
    and Divestitures


 


    Acquisitions.  Since July 1, 2002, the
    Company has completed the following business combinations:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Consideration Paid


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Stock Options
    


 


 


 


 





    Date(1)



 



    Company



 



    Location



 



    Line of Business



 


    Shares


 


 


    Converted(2)


 


 


    Cash


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    (Amounts in millions)


 


 


 


 



 





    January 1, 2003
    



 


    Syncor International Corporation
    


 


    Woodland Hills, California
    


 


    Provider of nuclear pharmacy
    services
    


 


 


    12.5 (3


    )


 


 


    3.0


 


 


 


    —


 





    December 16, 2003
    



 


    The Intercare Group, plc
    


 


    United Kingdom
    


 


    Contract services manufacturer and
    distributor for pharmaceutical companies
    


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 


 


    $


    570 (4


    )





    June 28, 2004
    



 


    ALARIS Medical Systems, Inc.
    


 


    San Diego, California
    


 


    Provider of intravenous medication
    safety products and services
    


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    0.6


 


 


    $


    2,080 (5


    )





    June 21, 2007
    



 


    VIASYS Healthcare Inc.
    


 


    Conshohocken, Pennsylvania
    


 


    Provider of respiratory, neurology,
    medical disposable and orthopedic products
    


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    0.1


 


 


    $


    1,526 (6


    )








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    Represents the date the Company became the majority shareholder.


 


    
    (2) 
    
    
    As a result of the acquisition, the outstanding stock options of
    the acquired company were converted into options to purchase the
    Company’s Common Shares. This column represents the number
    of the Company’s Common Shares subject to such converted
    stock options immediately following conversion.


 


    
    (3) 
    
    
    Includes the assumption of approximately $120 million in
    debt.


 


    
    (4) 
    
    
    Includes the assumption of approximately $150 million in
    debt.


 


    
    (5) 
    
    
    Includes the assumption of approximately $358 million in
    debt.


 


    
    (6) 
    
    
    Includes the assumption of approximately $54 million in
    debt; also includes approximately $88 million of shares
    purchased under equity compensation plans in July 2007.





    
    7



Table of Contents



 


    In addition to Viasys, the Company acquired MedMined, Care
    Fusion and SpecialtyScripts during fiscal 2007. The Company also
    has completed a number of other smaller acquisitions (asset
    purchases, stock purchases and mergers) during the last five
    fiscal years, including acquisitions of Medicap and Snowden
    Pencer Holdings, Inc. during fiscal 2004, Geodax Technology, Inc
    (“Geodax”) during fiscal 2005, and ParMed
    Pharmaceutical, Inc. (“ParMed”) and Denver Biomedical,
    Inc. (“Denver Biomedical”) during fiscal 2006. The
    Company also acquired the wholesale pharmaceutical, health and
    beauty and related drugstore products distribution business of
    The F. Dohmen Co. and certain of its subsidiaries
    (“Dohmen”) and the remaining shares of Source Medical
    Corporation (“Source Medical”), its Canadian joint
    venture, during fiscal 2006.


 


    Divestitures.  Since July 1, 2002, the
    Company has completed several divestiture transactions. These
    transactions include divesting the international and non-core
    domestic businesses of Syncor International Corporation
    (“Syncor”) in several transactions since acquiring
    Syncor in fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2006, the Company also
    divested a significant portion of its specialty distribution
    business.


 


    In April 2007, the Company completed the sale of the PTS
    Business to Phoenix Charter LLC (“Phoenix”), an
    affiliate of The Blackstone Group, pursuant to the Purchase and
    Sale Agreement between the Company and Phoenix, dated as of
    January 25, 2007, as amended (the “Purchase
    Agreement”). At the closing of the sale, the Company
    received approximately $3.2 billion in cash from Phoenix,
    which was the purchase price of approximately $3.3 billion
    as adjusted pursuant to certain provisions in the Purchase
    Agreement for the working capital, cash, indebtedness and
    earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
    of the PTS Business.


 


    Prior to being divested, through the PTS Business, the Company
    provided products and services to the healthcare industry
    through pharmaceutical development and manufacturing services in
    nearly all oral and sterile dose forms, including those
    incorporating proprietary drug delivery systems, such as softgel
    capsules, controlled-release forms,
    Zydis®
    fast-dissolving wafers and advanced sterile delivery
    technologies. The PTS Business also provided packaging services,
    pharmaceutical development, analytical science services and
    scientific and regulatory consulting.


 


    During fiscal 2007, the Company also divested its healthcare
    marketing services business and its United Kingdom-based
    Intercare pharmaceutical distribution business.


 


    Certain businesses that were part of the PTS Business and the
    Intercare pharmaceutical distribution business were acquired in
    The Intercare Group, plc (“Intercare”) transaction
    described in the table above.


 


    On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates possible candidates
    for merger or acquisition and considers opportunities to expand
    its operations and services across all reportable segments.
    These acquisitions may involve the use of cash, stock or other
    securities as well as the assumption of indebtedness and
    liabilities. In addition, the Company evaluates its portfolio of
    businesses on an ongoing basis to identify businesses for
    possible divestiture. For additional information concerning
    certain of the transactions described above, see Notes 2, 8
    and 9 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”
    and “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.”


 



    Customers


 


    The Company’s largest customers, CVS Corporation
    (“CVS”) and Walgreen Co. (“Walgreens”),
    accounted for approximately 21% and 19%, respectively, of the
    Company’s revenue for fiscal 2007. The aggregate of the
    Company’s five largest customers, including CVS and
    Walgreens, accounted for approximately 50% of the Company’s
    revenue for fiscal 2007. All of the Company’s business with
    its five largest customers is included in its Healthcare Supply
    Chain Services — Pharmaceutical segment. The loss of
    one or more of these five customers could adversely affect the
    Company’s results of operations and financial condition.


 


    Businesses in each of the Company’s reportable segments
    have agreements with group purchasing organizations
    (“GPOs”) that act as agents that negotiate vendor
    contracts on behalf of their members. Approximately 10% of the
    Company’s revenue for fiscal 2007 was derived from GPO
    members through the contractual arrangements established with
    Novation, LLC (“Novation”) and Premier Purchasing
    Partners, L.P. (“Premier”), the Company’s two
    largest GPO relationships in terms of member revenue. Generally,
    compliance by GPO members with GPO vendor selections is
    voluntary. As such, the Company believes the loss of any of the
    Company’s agreements with a



    
    8



Table of Contents




    GPO would not mean the loss of sales to all members of the GPO,
    although the loss of such an agreement could adversely affect
    the Company’s results of operations and financial
    condition. See Note 1 in “Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements” for further information regarding the
    Company’s concentrations of credit risk and major customers.


 



    Suppliers


 


    The Company obtains its products from many different suppliers.
    Products obtained from the Company’s five largest suppliers
    accounted on a combined basis for approximately 20% of the
    Company’s revenue during fiscal 2007. No one
    supplier’s products accounted for more than 5% of the
    Company’s revenue in fiscal 2007. Overall, the Company
    believes that its relationships with its suppliers are good. The
    loss of certain suppliers could adversely affect the
    Company’s results of operations and financial condition if
    alternative sources of supply were unavailable at reasonable
    prices.


 



    Healthcare
    Supply Chain Services — Pharmaceutical


 


    Historically, a significant portion of pharmaceutical supply
    chain’s gross margin was derived from the Company’s
    ability to purchase inventory, hold that inventory when a
    manufacturer increased prices and sell that product at the
    higher price. Beginning in fiscal 2003, branded pharmaceutical
    manufacturers began to seek greater control over the amount of
    product available in the supply chain and, as a result, began to
    change their sales practices by restricting the volume of
    product available for purchase by wholesalers. In addition,
    manufacturers sought additional services from the Company,
    including providing data concerning product sales and
    distribution patterns. The Company believes that manufacturers
    sought these changes to provide them with greater visibility
    over product demand and movement in the market and to increase
    product safety and integrity by reducing the risks associated
    with product being available to, and distributed in, the
    secondary market. These changes significantly reduced the
    pharmaceutical price appreciation earned by the Company.


 


    In response to these developments, the Company established a
    compensation system with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers
    that is significantly less dependent on manufacturers’
    pricing practices, and is based on the services provided by the
    Company to meet the unique distribution requirements of each
    manufacturer’s products. During fiscal 2005, the Company
    worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to
    define fee-for-service terms that compensate the Company based
    on the services being provided to such manufacturers. This
    transition was completed during fiscal 2006. These new
    arrangements have moderated the seasonality of earnings which
    have historically reflected the pattern of manufacturers’
    price increases.


 


    The Company’s fee-for-service arrangements are reflected in
    written distribution service agreements. Distribution service
    agreements between the Company and certain branded
    pharmaceutical manufacturers generally range from a one-year
    term with an automatic renewal feature to a five-year term.
    These agreements generally cannot be terminated unless mutually
    agreed by the parties, a breach of the agreement occurs that is
    not cured, or a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event
    occurs. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate the
    agreement without cause within a defined notice period. See the
    “Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Business Model”
    discussion under “Reportable Segments —
    Healthcare Supply Chain Services —
    Pharmaceutical” above for more information regarding
    distribution service agreement fees.


 



    Healthcare
    Supply Chain Services — Medical


 


    The Company’s Healthcare Supply Chain Services —
    Medical segment purchases products from a wide range of medical
    products suppliers for distribution to its customers. This
    segment, at times, purchases medical and laboratory products
    from suppliers other than the original manufacturer of such
    products. Certain manufacturers have adopted policies limiting
    the ability of the segment’s businesses to purchase
    products from anyone other than the manufacturer. If this
    practice becomes more widespread, the ability of the Healthcare
    Supply Chain Services — Medical segment to purchase
    products from other distributors, as well as its ability to sell
    excess inventories to other distributors, may be impaired. This
    could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations
    and financial condition.



    
    9



Table of Contents





    Clinical
    Technologies and Services and Medical Products
    Manufacturing


 


    The Clinical Technologies and Services segment uses purchased
    components in the products it manufactures, including
    custom-designed components and assemblies. The Medical Products
    Manufacturing segment uses a broad range of raw materials,
    compounds and purchased components in the products it
    manufactures, including latex and resins. In certain
    circumstances, the Company’s results of operations and
    financial condition may be adversely affected by raw material or
    component cost increases because the Company may not be able to
    fully recover the increased costs from the customer or offset
    the increased cost through productivity improvements. In
    addition, although most of these raw materials or components are
    generally available, certain raw materials or components used by
    the Company’s manufacturing businesses may be available
    only from a limited number of suppliers. Where there are a
    limited number of suppliers, the Company may experience
    shortages in supply, and as a result, the Company’s results
    of operations and financial condition could be adversely
    affected.


 


    With respect to certain products, the Clinical Technologies and
    Services and Medical Products Manufacturing segments contract
    with third-party manufacturers for all or some aspects of their
    product manufacturing. These segments also source certain
    finished products from third-party suppliers.


 



    Competition


 


    The Company operates in markets that are highly competitive.


 



    Healthcare
    Supply Chain Services — Pharmaceutical


 


    In the Healthcare Supply Chain Services —
    Pharmaceutical segment, the Company’s pharmaceutical supply
    chain business faces competition in the United States from two
    other national wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation and
    AmerisourceBergen Corporation) and a number of smaller regional
    wholesale distributors, self-warehousing chains, direct selling
    manufacturers, specialty distributors and third-party logistics
    companies on the basis of a value proposition that includes
    pricing, breadth of product lines, service offerings and support
    services.


 


    The pharmaceutical supply chain business has narrow profit
    margins and, accordingly, the Company’s earnings depend
    significantly on its ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    compete effectively on the pricing of pharmaceutical products;



 


     
        • 

    
    distribute a large volume and variety of products efficiently;



 


     
        • 

    
    establish and maintain low cost sourcing arrangements with
    generic pharmaceutical manufacturers;



 


     
        • 

    
    provide quality support services;



 


     
        • 

    
    enter into and maintain satisfactory arrangements with
    pharmaceutical manufacturers so it is compensated for the
    services it provides manufacturers; and



 


     
        • 

    
    effectively manage inventory and other working capital items.





 


    This segment’s nuclear pharmacies compete with nuclear
    pharmacy companies and distributors engaged in the preparation
    and delivery of radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging
    procedures in hospitals and clinics, including numerous national
    and regional networks of radiopharmacies, numerous independent
    radiopharmacies and manufacturers and universities that have
    established their own radiopharmacies. This segment’s
    nuclear pharmacies compete based upon a variety of factors,
    including price, quality, customer service, proprietary
    technologies or capabilities and responsiveness.


 


    With respect to pharmacy franchising operations, a few smaller
    franchisors compete with Medicine Shoppe in the franchising of
    pharmacies, with competition being based primarily upon
    financial assistance offered to qualified franchisees,
    aggregation of purchase volume, operational support and
    assistance, benefits offered to both the pharmacist and the
    customer, access to third-party programs, brand awareness and
    marketing support and pricing. Medicine Shoppe also needs to be
    competitive with a pharmacist’s ongoing options to operate
    an independent pharmacy or work for a chain pharmacy.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Healthcare
    Supply Chain Services — Medical


 


    The Company’s Healthcare Supply Chain Services —
    Medical segment faces competition both in the United States and
    in Canada. Competitive factors within this segment include
    price, order-filling accuracy (both invoicing and product
    selection), breadth of product offerings, product availability
    and service offerings. This segment competes across several
    customer classes with many different distributors, including
    Owens & Minor, Inc., Fisher Scientific International,
    Inc., Physician Sales & Service, Inc., Henry Schein,
    Inc. and Medline Industries, Inc., among others. This segment
    also competes with a number of smaller regional medical products
    distributors and also with third-party logistics companies.


 



    Clinical
    Technologies and Services


 


    The Company’s Clinical Technologies and Services segment
    faces competition in both its domestic and international
    markets. Its infusion products compete based upon quality,
    technological innovation, price, patents and other intellectual
    property and the value proposition of helping improve patient
    outcomes while reducing overall costs associated with medication
    safety. Competitors with respect to infusion products include
    both domestic and foreign companies, including Hospira, Inc., B.
    Braun Medical, Inc., Baxter International, Inc. and Fresenius AG.


 


    This segment’s dispensing products (including supply
    dispensing products) compete based upon quality, relationships
    with customers, price, customer service and support
    capabilities, patents and other intellectual property and its
    ability to interface with customer information systems. Actual
    and potential competitors with respect to dispensing products
    include both existing domestic and foreign companies, including
    McKesson Corporation and Omnicell, Inc., as well as emerging
    companies that supply products for specialized markets and other
    outside service providers.


 


    This segment’s pharmacy services compete based on range and
    quality of services, price, effective use of information
    systems, development and implementation of clinical programs and
    the established base of existing operations. Competitors include
    both national and regional hospital pharmacy management and
    remote order entry firms, including McKesson Corporation, as
    well as self-managed hospitals and hospital systems.


 



    Medical
    Products Manufacturing


 


    The Company’s Medical Products Manufacturing segment faces
    competition in both its domestic and international markets.
    Competitive factors include product innovation, performance,
    quality, price and brand recognition. This segment competes
    against several medical product manufacturers, including
    Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Covidien Ltd. (formerly Tyco
    Healthcare), Teleflex Incorporated, Medline Industries, Inc.,
    Ansell Limited, 3M Company, Getinge AB, Dräger Medical
    AG & Co. KG and Respironics, Inc., among others.


 



    Employees


 


    As of June 30, 2007, the Company had approximately
    28,800 employees in the United States and approximately
    14,700 employees outside of the United States. Overall, the
    Company considers its employee relations to be good.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent,
    copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other
    contractual provisions and technical measures to protect its
    products, services and intangible assets. These proprietary
    rights are important to the Company’s ongoing operations.
    The Company operates under licenses for certain proprietary
    technology and in certain instances licenses its technology to
    third parties.


 


    The Company has applied in the United States and certain foreign
    countries for registration of a number of trademarks and service
    marks, some of which have been registered, and also holds common
    law rights in various trademarks and service marks. It is
    possible that in some cases the Company may be unable to obtain
    the registrations for trademarks and service marks for which it
    has applied.



    
    11



Table of Contents




    Through its Healthcare Supply Chain Services —
    Pharmaceutical segment, the Company holds patents relating to
    certain aspects of its nuclear pharmacy products. Through its
    Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the Company holds
    patents relating to certain aspects of its automated
    pharmaceutical dispensing systems, automated medication
    management systems, medical devices, infusion therapy systems,
    infusion administration sets, drug delivery systems and
    infection surveillance and reporting systems. Through its
    Medical Products Manufacturing segment, the Company holds
    patents relating to certain aspects of its medical and surgical
    products and devices, including surgical and exam gloves,
    drapes, gowns, respiratory therapy devices, patient prep
    products and surgical instruments. The Company also holds
    patents relating to certain processes and products across all
    segments. The Company has a number of pending patent
    applications in the United States and certain foreign countries,
    and intends to pursue additional patents as appropriate. The
    Company has enforced and will continue to enforce its
    intellectual property rights in the United States and worldwide.


 


    The Company does not consider any particular patent, trademark,
    license, franchise or concession to be material to its overall
    business.


 



    Regulatory
    Matters


 


    Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries may be required to
    register for permits
    and/or
    licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards
    of, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (the
    “DEA”), the Food and Drug Administration (the
    “FDA”), the United States Nuclear Regulatory
    Commission (the “NRC”), the Department of Health and
    Human Services (“DHHS”), and various state boards of
    pharmacy, state health departments
    and/or
    comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies, and
    certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations
    and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale.
    These subsidiaries include those that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    distribute
    and/or
    engage in logistics services for prescription pharmaceuticals
    (including certain controlled substances)
    and/or
    medical devices;



 


     
        • 

    
    manage or own pharmacy operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    engage in or operate retail, specialty or nuclear pharmacies;



 


     
        • 

    
    purchase pharmaceuticals;



 


     
        • 

    
    develop, manufacture or package pharmaceutical products and
    medical devices;



 


     
        • 

    
    market pharmaceutical and medical device products; and



 


     
        • 

    
    provide consulting services and solutions that assist healthcare
    institutions and pharmacies in their operations as well as
    pharmaceutical manufacturers with regard to regulatory
    submissions and filings made to healthcare agencies such as the
    FDA.





 


    In addition, certain of the Company’s subsidiaries are
    subject to requirements of the Controlled Substances Act and the
    Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987 and similar state laws,
    which regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution
    of prescription drugs and prescription drug samples under
    prescribed minimum standards. Certain of the Company’s
    subsidiaries that manufacture medical devices are subject to the
    Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended by the Medical
    Device Amendments of 1976, the Safe Medical Device Act of 1990,
    as amended in 1992, the FDA Modernization Act of 1997, the
    Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act of 2002, and
    comparable foreign regulations. In addition, certain of the
    Company’s subsidiaries are subject to the Needlestick
    Safety and Prevention Act.


 


    Laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of products
    also exist in most other countries where the Company’s
    subsidiaries conduct business. In addition, the international
    manufacturing operations within the Company’s Clinical
    Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing
    segments are subject to local certification requirements,
    including compliance with domestic
    and/or
    foreign good manufacturing practices and quality system
    regulations established by the FDA
    and/or
    applicable foreign regulatory authorities.


 


    The FDA in the United States, as well as other governmental
    agencies inside and outside of the United States, administer
    requirements covering the design, testing, safety,
    effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and



    
    12



Table of Contents




    advertising, distribution and post-market surveillance of
    certain of the Company’s manufactured products. The Company
    must obtain specific approval or clearance from the FDA and
    non-U.S. regulatory
    authorities before it can market and sell many of its products
    in a particular country. Even after the Company obtains
    regulatory approval or clearance to market a product, the
    product and the Company’s manufacturing processes are
    subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory
    authorities.


 


    The Company is subject to possible administrative and legal
    actions by the FDA and other regulatory agencies for violations
    of laws and regulations including, without limitation, those
    laws and regulations described above. Such actions may include
    product recalls, product seizures, injunctions to halt
    manufacture and distribution, and other civil and criminal
    sanctions. From time to time, the Company has instituted
    compliance actions, such as removing products from the market
    that were found not to meet applicable requirements. See
    Note 12 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements” for a discussion of the Alaris SE Pump recall.


 


    To assess and facilitate compliance with applicable
    requirements, the Company regularly reviews its quality systems
    to determine their effectiveness and identify areas for
    improvement. The Company also performs assessments of its
    suppliers of raw materials, components and finished goods. In
    addition, the Company conducts quality management reviews
    designed to inform management of key issues that may affect the
    quality of products and services. From time to time, the Company
    may determine that products manufactured or marketed by the
    Company do not meet company specifications, published standards,
    such as those issued by the International Standards
    Organization, or regulatory requirements. When a quality issue
    is identified to the Company, it will investigate and take
    appropriate corrective action, such as withdrawal of the product
    from the market, correction of the product at the customer
    location, notice to the customer of revised labeling,
    and/or other
    actions.


 


    The Company’s franchising operations, through Medicine
    Shoppe, are subject to Federal Trade Commission regulations, and
    rules and regulations adopted by certain states, which require
    franchisors to make certain disclosures to prospective
    franchisees prior to the sale of franchises. In addition, many
    states have adopted laws which regulate the
    franchisor-franchisee relationship. The most common provisions
    of such laws establish restrictions on the ability of
    franchisors to terminate or refuse to renew franchise
    agreements. From time to time, similar legislation has been
    proposed or is pending in additional states.


 


    The Company operates nuclear pharmacies and related businesses,
    such as cyclotron facilities used to produce positron emission
    tomography (“PET”) products used in medical imaging.
    This business operates in a regulated industry which requires
    licenses or permits from the NRC, the radiologic health agency
    and/or
    department of health of each state in which it operates and the
    applicable state board of pharmacy. In addition, the FDA is also
    involved in the regulation of cyclotron facilities where PET
    products are produced.


 


    Services and products provided by certain of the Company’s
    businesses involve access to healthcare information gathered and
    assessed for the benefit of healthcare clients. Greater scrutiny
    on a federal and state level is being placed on how patient
    identifiable healthcare information should be handled and in
    identifying the appropriate parties and the means to do so.
    Changes in regulations
    and/or
    legislation such as the Health Insurance Portability and
    Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) and its
    accompanying federal regulations, such as those pertaining to
    privacy and security, may affect how some of these information
    services or products are provided. In addition, certain of the
    Company’s operations, depending upon their location, may be
    subject to additional state or foreign regulations affecting
    personal data protection and how information services or
    products are provided. Failure to comply with HIPAA and other
    such laws may subject the Company
    and/or its
    subsidiaries to civil
    and/or
    criminal penalties, which could be significant.


 


    The Company is also subject to various federal, state and local
    laws, regulations and recommendations, both in the United States
    and abroad, relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and
    manufacturing practices and the use, transportation and disposal
    of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition,
    U.S. and international import and export laws and
    regulations require the Company to abide by certain standards
    relating to the importation and exportation of finished goods,
    raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. The
    Company is also subject to certain laws and regulations
    concerning the conduct of its foreign operations, including the
    U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws
    and laws pertaining to the accuracy of the Company’s
    internal books and records. Certain of the Company’s
    subsidiaries also maintain contracts with the federal government
    and are subject to certain regulatory requirements relating to
    government contractors.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    The Company’s operations are affected by federal, state
    and/or local
    environmental laws. The Company has compliance programs in place
    designed to meet applicable environmental compliance
    requirements. The Company has made, and intends to continue to
    make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable
    environmental laws. As a result of acquisitions, the Company is
    participating in cleaning up environmental contamination from
    past industrial activity at certain sites.


 


    There have been increasing efforts by various levels of
    government, including state departments of health, state boards
    of pharmacy and comparable agencies, to regulate the
    pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the
    introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled
    pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. Several states
    have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations,
    including pedigree tracking requirements, that are intended to
    protect the integrity of the pharmaceutical distribution system.
    Florida has adopted pedigree tracking requirements and
    California has enacted a law requiring chain of custody
    technology using electronic pedigrees. Regulations requiring
    pedigree and chain of custody tracking in certain circumstances
    adopted under the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act became
    effective on December 1, 2006. These federal regulations
    have been challenged in a legal proceeding brought by secondary
    distributors. A preliminary injunction was issued by the federal
    District Court for the Eastern District of New York that
    temporarily enjoined implementation of these federal
    regulations. These laws and regulations could increase the
    overall regulatory burden and costs associated with the
    Company’s pharmaceutical supply chain business, and could
    adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and
    financial condition. The Company continues to work with its
    suppliers in an ongoing effort to minimize counterfeit products
    in the supply chain.


 


    On December 26, 2006, the Company entered into a civil
    settlement to resolve a civil investigation by the New York
    Attorney General’s Office focusing on trading in the
    secondary market for pharmaceuticals. The Company has
    voluntarily undertaken and implemented a number of business
    reforms regarding certain matters examined as part of the
    investigation and also has implemented additional business
    reforms within its pharmaceutical supply chain business as
    required by the settlement. The Company has substantially
    enhanced its employee training programs and adopted policies and
    procedures designed to prevent the improper diversion of
    pharmaceutical products. It also now requires wholesale
    customers to certify their compliance with the Company’s
    wholesaler safe product practices. In connection with the
    settlement, the Company agreed to conduct annual
    agreed-upon
    procedures testing in 2007, 2008 and 2009 to assess its
    compliance with the procedures outlined in the settlement.


 


    The Company is subject to extensive local, state and federal
    laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The
    federal government continues to scrutinize potentially
    fraudulent practices in the healthcare industry in an attempt to
    minimize the cost that such practices have on Medicare, Medicaid
    and other government healthcare programs. In addition, state
    attorney general offices have investigated, and may in the
    future investigate, the Company’s operations for compliance
    with such laws and regulations. For example, certain state
    attorney general offices are alleging that the Company has
    caused Medicaid reimbursements to be paid for repackaged
    pharmaceuticals without paying the required Medicaid rebate and
    that certain of the Company’s repackaging business
    practices violate the Medicaid rebate statute. See Note 12
    of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a
    discussion of the state attorneys general investigation related
    to repackaged pharmaceuticals. Many of these laws and
    regulations are complex and broadly written and could be
    interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or
    judicial authority in a manner that could require the Company to
    make changes in its operations. If the Company fails to comply
    with applicable laws and regulations, it could suffer civil
    damages and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses
    or its ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other
    federal and state healthcare programs.


 


    The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) includes
    provisions that change the prescription drug reimbursement
    formula for generic pharmaceuticals under Medicaid to a
    reimbursement formula based on the lowest average
    manufacturers’ price in an effort to reduce costs for that
    program. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
    (“CMS”) released a final rule implementing these
    provisions on July 6, 2007. Under the final rule, the major
    changes with respect to generic pharmaceuticals are expected to
    become effective in the second and third quarters of fiscal
    2008. The final rule also requires for the first time public
    reporting by the manufacturers of the average
    manufacturers’ price (as defined by CMS) for branded and
    generic pharmaceuticals. The Company is continuing to work with
    its customers and the regulatory agencies in this process. The
    Company is currently developing plans to mitigate the potential
    impact of these legislative changes. If the Company fails to
    successfully



    
    14



Table of Contents




    develop and implement such plans, this change in reimbursement
    formula and related reporting requirements and other provisions
    of the DRA could adversely affect the Company’s results of
    operations and financial condition.


 


    The costs associated with complying with the various applicable
    federal regulations, as well as state and foreign regulations,
    could be significant and the failure to comply with all such
    legal requirements could have an adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Inventories


 


    The Company’s distribution businesses are generally not
    required by its customers to maintain particular inventory
    levels other than as may be required to meet service level
    requirements. Certain supply contracts with U.S. Government
    entities require the Company’s Healthcare Supply Chain
    Services — Pharmaceutical, Healthcare Supply Chain
    Services — Medical and Clinical Technologies and
    Services segments to maintain sufficient inventory to meet
    emergency demands. The Company does not believe that the
    requirements contained in these U.S. Government supply
    contracts materially impact inventory levels.


 


    The Company’s customer return policies generally require
    that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking
    fees, and only allow customers to return products that can be
    added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be
    returned to vendors for credit.


 


    The Company’s practice is to offer market payment terms to
    its customers.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    For information on company-sponsored research and development
    costs in the last three fiscal years, see Note 1 of
    “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which is
    incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Revenue
    and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area


 


    For information on revenue and long-lived assets by geographic
    area, see Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements,” which is incorporated herein by reference.







 




    
    



    
    Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The risks described below could materially and adversely affect
    the Company’s results of operations, financial condition,
    liquidity and cash flows. These risks are not the only risks
    that the Company faces. The Company’s business operations
    could also be affected by additional factors that are not
    presently known to it or that the Company currently considers to
    be immaterial to its operations.


 



    Competitive
    pressures could adversely affect the Company’s results of
    operations and financial condition.


 


    The Company operates in markets that are highly competitive. For
    example, the Company’s pharmaceutical supply chain business
    competes with two national wholesale distributors, McKesson
    Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and a number of
    smaller regional wholesale distributors, self-warehousing
    chains, direct selling manufacturers, specialty distributors and
    third-party logistics companies. In addition, certain of the
    Company’s customers have consolidated and may continue to
    do so in the future. Competitive pressures could adversely
    affect the Company’s results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    Substantial
    defaults or a material reduction in purchases of the
    Company’s products by large customers could have an adverse
    effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    In recent years, a significant portion of the Company’s
    revenue growth has been derived from a limited number of large
    customers. The Company’s largest customers, CVS and
    Walgreens, accounted for approximately 21% and 19%,
    respectively, of the Company’s revenue for fiscal 2007. The
    aggregate of the Company’s five largest customers,
    including CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 50% of
    the Company’s revenue for fiscal 2007. In addition, CVS and
    Walgreens accounted for 20% and 27%, respectively, of the
    Company’s gross trade receivable balance at June 30,
    2007. As a result, the Company’s sales and credit
    concentration is significant. Any



    
    15



Table of Contents




    defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases from
    these or other large customers could have an adverse effect on
    the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.


 


    In addition, certain of the Company’s businesses have
    entered into agreements with GPOs. Approximately 10% of the
    Company’s revenue for fiscal 2007 was derived from GPO
    members through the contractual arrangements established with
    Novation and Premier. Generally, compliance by GPO members with
    GPO vendor selections is voluntary. Still, the loss of an
    agreement with a GPO could have an adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations and financial condition
    because the Company could lose customers or have to reduce
    prices as a result.


 



    Changes
    in the United States healthcare environment could adversely
    affect the Company’s results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    The healthcare industry has changed significantly over time and
    the Company expects the industry to continue to change
    significantly in the future. Some of these changes, such as
    adverse changes in government funding of healthcare services,
    legislation or regulations governing the privacy of patient
    information, or the delivery or pricing of or reimbursement for
    pharmaceuticals and healthcare services or mandated benefits,
    may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount
    of the Company’s products and services they purchase or the
    price they are willing to pay for the Company’s products
    and services. The Company expects continued government and
    private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes
    in the healthcare industry’s or any suppliers’
    pricing, reimbursement, selling, inventory, distribution or
    supply policies or practices, or changes in the Company’s
    customer mix, could also significantly reduce the Company’s
    revenue, increase the Company’s costs or otherwise
    significantly impact its results of operations.


 


    Healthcare and public policy trends indicate that the number of
    generic pharmaceuticals will increase over the next few years as
    a result of the expiration of certain pharmaceutical patents. A
    decrease in the availability or changes in pricing of or
    reimbursements for generic pharmaceuticals could adversely
    affect the Company’s results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    There have been increasing efforts by various levels of
    government, including state departments of health, state boards
    of pharmacy and comparable agencies, to regulate the
    pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the
    introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled
    pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. Several states
    have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations,
    including pedigree tracking requirements, that are intended to
    protect the integrity of the pharmaceutical distribution system.
    Florida has adopted pedigree tracking requirements and
    California has enacted a law requiring chain of custody
    technology using electronic pedigrees. Regulations requiring
    pedigree and chain of custody tracking in certain circumstances
    adopted under the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act became
    effective on December 1, 2006. These federal regulations
    have been challenged in a case brought by secondary
    distributors. A preliminary injunction was issued by the federal
    District Court for the Eastern District of New York that
    temporarily enjoined implementation of these federal
    regulations. These laws and regulations could increase the
    overall regulatory burden and costs associated with the
    Company’s pharmaceutical supply chain business, and could
    adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and
    financial condition.


 


    The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) includes
    provisions that change the prescription drug reimbursement
    formula for generic pharmaceuticals under Medicaid to a
    reimbursement formula based on the lowest average
    manufacturers’ price in an effort to reduce costs for that
    program. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
    (“CMS”) released a final rule implementing these
    provisions on July 6, 2007. Under the final rule, the major
    changes with respect to generic pharmaceuticals are expected to
    become effective in the second and third quarters of fiscal
    2008. The final rule also requires for the first time public
    reporting by the manufacturers of the average
    manufacturers’ price (as defined by CMS) for branded and
    generic pharmaceuticals. The Company is continuing to work with
    its customers and the regulatory agencies in this process. The
    Company is currently developing plans to mitigate the potential
    impact of these legislative changes. If the Company fails to
    successfully develop and implement such plans, this change in
    reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements and
    other provisions of the DRA could adversely affect the
    Company’s results of operations and financial condition.



    
    16



Table of Contents



 


    The Company’s Healthcare Supply Chain Services —
    Medical segment, at times, purchases medical/surgical and
    laboratory products from vendors other than the original
    manufacturer of such products. Certain manufacturers have
    adopted policies limiting the ability of the segment’s
    businesses to purchase products from anyone other than the
    manufacturer. If this practice becomes more widespread, the
    ability of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services —
    Medical segment to purchase products from other distributors, as
    well as its ability to sell excess inventories to other
    distributors, may be impaired. This could adversely affect the
    Company’s results of operations and financial condition.


 



    The
    Company’s pharmaceutical supply chain business is subject
    to appreciation in branded pharmaceutical prices and deflation
    in generic pharmaceutical prices, which subjects the Company to
    risks and uncertainties.


 


    Some distribution service agreements entered into by the Company
    with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers have a price
    appreciation-based component to them in addition to a service
    fee component. The Company also continues to generate gross
    margin from the sale of some manufacturers’ products from
    pharmaceutical price appreciation without receiving distribution
    service agreement fees. If the frequency or rate of branded
    pharmaceutical price appreciation slows, the Company’s
    results of operations and financial condition could be adversely
    affected.


 


    In addition, the pharmaceutical supply chain business
    distributes generic pharmaceuticals, which are generally subject
    to price deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic
    pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, the Company’s
    results of operations and financial condition could be adversely
    affected.


 



    The
    Company is subject to legal proceedings that could adversely
    affect the Company’s results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    The Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings, which,
    if decided adversely to the Company or settled by the Company on
    unfavorable terms, could have an adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations and financial condition.
    The Company discusses these legal proceedings in greater detail
    below in Note 12 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.”


 


    In addition, the Company’s products or services expose it
    to product and professional liability risks. The availability of
    product liability insurance for large companies in the
    pharmaceutical and medical device industry is generally more
    limited than insurance available to smaller companies and
    companies in other industries. Insurance carriers providing
    product liability insurance to large pharmaceutical and medical
    device companies generally limit the amount of available policy
    limits, require larger self-insured retentions and include
    exclusions for certain products. There can be no assurance that
    a successful product or professional liability claim would be
    adequately covered by the Company’s applicable insurance
    policies or by any applicable contractual indemnity and, as
    such, these claims could adversely affect the Company’s
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Failure
    to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could
    adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and
    financial condition.


 


    The healthcare industry is highly regulated. The Company is
    subject to various local, state, federal, foreign and
    transnational laws and regulations, which include the operating
    and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards
    of pharmacy, state health departments, the NRC, DHHS, the
    European Union member states and other comparable agencies.
    Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries may be required to
    register for permits
    and/or
    licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards
    of, the DEA, the FDA, the NRC, DHHS and various state boards of
    pharmacy, state health departments
    and/or
    comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies and
    certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations
    and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale.


 


    Although the Company believes that it is in compliance, in all
    material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there
    can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would
    not reach a different conclusion concerning the compliance of
    the Company’s operations with applicable laws and
    regulations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the
    Company will be able to maintain or renew existing permits,
    licenses or any other regulatory approvals or obtain without
    significant delay future permits, licenses or other approvals
    needed for the operation of the Company’s businesses. Any
    noncompliance by the Company with applicable laws and
    regulations or the failure to maintain, renew or obtain
    necessary permits and licenses could have an adverse effect on
    the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    The manufacture, distribution and marketing of certain of the
    Company’s products are subject to extensive ongoing
    regulation by the FDA. Failure to comply with the requirements
    of the FDA could result in warning letters, product recalls or
    seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture
    and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions,
    refusal of the government to grant approvals, restrictions on
    operations or withdrawal of existing approvals. See Note 12
    of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a
    discussion of the Alaris SE Pump recall. Any of these actions
    could cause a loss of customer confidence in the Company and its
    products which could adversely affect the Company’s sales.
    In addition, third parties may file claims against the Company
    in connection these issues.


 


    The Company is also subject to extensive local, state and
    federal laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and
    abuse. The federal government continues to scrutinize
    potentially fraudulent practices in the healthcare industry in
    an attempt to minimize the cost that such practices have on
    Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. In
    addition, state attorney general offices have investigated, and
    may in the future investigate, the Company’s operations for
    compliance with such laws and regulations. For example, certain
    state attorney general offices are alleging that the Company has
    caused Medicaid reimbursements to be paid for repackaged
    pharmaceuticals without paying the required Medicaid rebate and
    that certain of the Company’s repackaging business
    practices violate the Medicaid rebate statute. See Note 12
    of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a
    discussion of the state attorneys general investigation related
    to repackaged pharmaceuticals. Many of these laws and
    regulations are complex and broadly written and could be
    interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or
    judicial authority in a manner that could require the Company to
    make changes in its operations. If the Company fails to comply
    with applicable laws and regulations, it could suffer civil
    damages and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses
    or its ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other
    federal and state healthcare programs.


 



    Circumstances
    associated with the Company’s acquisition strategy could
    adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and
    financial condition.


 


    An important element of the Company’s growth strategy
    historically has been the pursuit of acquisitions of other
    businesses which expand or complement the Company’s
    existing businesses. Acquisitions involve risks, including the
    risk that the Company overpays for a business or is unable to
    obtain the synergies and other expected benefits from acquiring
    a business in a timely manner, or at all. Integrating acquired
    businesses also involves a number of special risks, including
    the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the possibility that management may be distracted from regular
    business concerns by the need to integrate operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems
    and realizing potential revenue synergies and cost savings;



 


     
        • 

    
    problems assimilating and retaining the management or employees
    of the acquired company or the Company’s employees
    following an acquisition;



 


     
        • 

    
    accounting issues that could arise in connection with, or as a
    result of, the acquisition of the acquired company, including
    issues related to internal control over financial reporting;



 


     
        • 

    
    regulatory or compliance issues that could exist for an acquired
    company or business;



 


     
        • 

    
    challenges in retaining the customers of the combined
    businesses; and



 


     
        • 

    
    potential adverse short-term effects on results of operations
    through increased costs or otherwise.





 


    If the Company is unable to successfully complete and integrate
    strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, its results of
    operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.


 



    Consolidating
    the headquarters of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services sector
    could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations
    and financial condition.


 


    On April 30, 2007, the Company announced that it was moving
    the headquarters of its Healthcare Supply Chain
    Services — Medical segment and certain corporate
    functions from Waukegan, Illinois to the Company’s
    corporate headquarters in Dublin, Ohio. This consolidation is
    expected to take place over the next two years. The
    consolidation could result in customer service and other
    business disruptions in the Healthcare Supply Chain
    Services — Medical segment and challenges in retaining
    this segment’s key employees. If the Company is unable to



    
    18



Table of Contents




    successfully complete the Healthcare Supply Chain Services
    headquarters consolidation, its results of operations and
    financial condition could be adversely affected.


 



    The
    Company’s future results of operations are subject to
    fluctuations in the costs and availability of purchased
    components, compounds, raw materials and energy.


 


    The Company depends on various components, compounds, raw
    materials, and energy (including oil and natural gas and their
    derivatives) supplied by others for the manufacturing of its
    products through its Clinical Technologies and Services and
    Medical Products Manufacturing segments. It is possible that any
    of the Company’s supplier relationships could be
    interrupted due to natural disasters or other events or could be
    terminated in the future. Any sustained interruption in the
    Company’s receipt of adequate supplies could have an
    adverse effect on the Company. In addition, while the Company
    has processes to minimize volatility in component and material
    pricing, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able
    to successfully manage price fluctuations or that future price
    fluctuations or shortages will not have an adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations.


 



    Proprietary
    technology protections may not be adequate.


 


    The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent,
    copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other
    contractual provisions and technical measures to protect a
    number of its products, services and intangible assets. These
    proprietary rights are important to the Company’s ongoing
    operations. There can be no assurance that these protections
    will provide meaningful protection against competitive products
    or services or otherwise be commercially valuable or that the
    Company will be successful in obtaining additional intellectual
    property or enforcing its intellectual property rights against
    unauthorized users. There can be no assurance that the
    Company’s competitors will not independently develop
    technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to
    the Company’s technology.


 



    The
    products that the Company manufactures or distributes may be
    found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third
    parties.


 


    From time to time, third parties have asserted infringement
    claims against the Company and there can be no assurance that
    third parties will not assert infringement claims against the
    Company in the future. While the Company believes that the
    products that it currently manufactures using its proprietary
    technology do not infringe upon proprietary rights of other
    parties or that meritorious defenses would exist with respect to
    any assertions to the contrary, there can be no assurance that
    the Company would not be found to infringe on the proprietary
    rights of others.


 


    The Company may be subject to litigation over infringement
    claims regarding the products it manufactures or distributes.
    This type of litigation can be costly and time consuming and
    could generate significant expenses, damage payments or
    restrictions or prohibitions on the Company’s use of its
    technology, which could adversely affect the Company’s
    results of operations. In addition, if the Company is found to
    be infringing on proprietary rights of others, the Company may
    be required to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a
    license or cease making, using
    and/or
    selling the infringing products.


 


    Generic drug manufacturers are increasingly challenging the
    validity or enforceability of patents on branded pharmaceutical
    products. During the pendency of these legal challenges, a
    generics manufacturer may begin manufacturing and selling a
    generic version of the branded product prior to the final
    resolution to its legal challenge over the branded
    product’s patent. The Company may distribute that generic
    product purchased from the generics manufacturer. As a result,
    the brand-name company may assert infringement claims against
    the Company. While the Company generally obtains indemnity
    rights from generic manufacturers as a condition of distributing
    their products, there can be no assurances that these indemnity
    rights will be adequate or sufficient to protect the Company.


 



    Risks
    generally associated with the Company’s information systems
    and implementation of a new accounting software system could
    adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial
    reporting.


 


    The Company relies on information systems in its business to
    obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of
    inventory items from numerous distribution centers;






    
    19



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;



 


     
        • 

    
    manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of
    customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    process payments to suppliers; and



 


     
        • 

    
    facilitate the manufacturing and assembly of medical products.





 


    The Company’s results of operations could be adversely
    affected if these systems are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen
    events or fail for any extended period of time, including due to
    the actions of third parties.


 


    In addition, in July 2007, the Company began implementing a new
    accounting software system and will transition selected
    financial processes to the new system throughout fiscal 2008 and
    2009. If the Company does not effectively implement this system
    or if the system does not operate as intended, it could
    adversely affect the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting.


 



    Tax
    legislation initiatives or challenges to the Company’s tax
    positions could adversely affect the Company’s results of
    operations and financial condition.


 


    The Company is a large multinational corporation with operations
    in the United States and international jurisdictions. As such,
    the Company is subject to the tax laws and regulations of the
    United States federal, state and local governments and of many
    international jurisdictions. From time to time, various
    legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely
    affect the Company’s tax positions. There can be no
    assurance that the Company’s effective tax rate or tax
    payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In
    addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as
    international, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex
    and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no
    assurance that the Company’s tax positions will not be
    challenged by relevant tax authorities or that the Company would
    be successful in any such challenge.


 



    The
    Company’s global operations are subject to a number of
    economic, political and regulatory risks.


 


    The Company conducts its operations in various regions of the
    world outside of the United States, including North America,
    South America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Global economic and
    regulatory developments affect businesses such as the
    Company’s in many ways. Operations are subject to the
    effects of global competition. Particular local jurisdiction
    risks include regulatory risks arising from local laws. The
    Company’s global operations are affected by local economic
    environments, including inflation, recession and currency
    volatility. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive,
    can interfere with the Company’s supply chain and customers
    and all of its activities in a particular location. While some
    of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other
    financial instruments and some of these other risks may be
    insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and
    not always successful







 




    
    



    
    Item 1B