: Risk FactorsThe risks described below could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. These are not the only risks we face. Our businesses also could be affected by risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently consider immaterial to our operations.We could suffer the adverse effects of competitive pressures.As described in greater detail in "Item 1-Business" above, we operate in markets that are highly competitive. Because of competition, our businesses face continued pricing pressure from our customers and suppliers. If we are unable to offset margin reductions caused by these pricing pressures through steps such as effective sourcing and enhanced cost control measures, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.In addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry has continued to consolidate. Further consolidation among our customers and suppliers (including branded pharmaceutical manufacturers) could give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may adversely impact our results of operations.We have a few large customers that generate a significant amount of our revenue.Our sales and credit concentration is significant. CVS and Walgreens accounted for approximately 22 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of our fiscal 2012 revenue. The aggregate of our five largest customers, including CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 59 percent of our fiscal 2012 revenue. In addition, Walgreens and CVS accounted for 25 percent and 19 percent, 6Table of Contentsrespectively, of our gross trade receivable balance at June 30, 2012. Our contracts with CVS and Walgreens are scheduled to expire in June 2013 and August 2013, respectively. If CVS, Walgreens or one of our other large customers terminates or does not renew its contract, defaults in payment, or significantly reduces its purchases of our products, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. For example, in July 2012, Express Scripts, Inc. informed us that it had not awarded us the combined pharmaceutical distribution contract following its merger with Medco Health Solutions, Inc. Our contract with Express Scripts, Inc. expires on September 30, 2012 and provided approximately $9.0 billion of revenue in fiscal 2012, all of which was classified as bulk sales. The expiration of that contract will have an adverse effect on our results of operations and operating cash flow.Our Pharmaceutical segment's margin may be affected by fewer or less profitable generic pharmaceutical launches, prices established by manufacturers and other factors that are beyond our control.As described in greater detail in "Item 1-Business" above, margin in our Pharmaceutical segment consists, in part, of generic manufacturer margin and margin from branded pharmaceutical price appreciation.The number of new generic pharmaceutical launches varies from year to year, and the margin impact of new launches varies from product to product.  Fewer generic pharmaceutical launches or launches that are less profitable than those previously experienced will have an adverse effect on our year-over-year margins.  Additionally, prices for existing generic pharmaceuticals generally decline over time, although this may vary.  Price deflation on existing generic pharmaceuticals will have an adverse effect on our margins.With respect to branded pharmaceutical price appreciation, if branded manufacturers increase prices less frequently or by amounts smaller than have been experienced historically, we will earn less margin on branded pharmaceuticals. The United States healthcare environment is changing in many ways, some of which may not be favorable to us, including changes resulting from federal healthcare legislation.The healthcare industry continues to undergo significant changes designed to increase access to medical care, improve safety and contain costs. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels have declined; the use of managed care has increased; distributors, manufacturers, healthcare providers and pharmacy chains have consolidated; and large purchasing groups are prevalent.In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively the “Healthcare Reform Acts”) were enacted. Among other things, the Healthcare Reform Acts seek to expand health insurance coverage to over 30 million uninsured Americans. Many of the significant changes in the Healthcare Reform Acts do not take effect until 2014, including a requirement that most Americans carry health insurance. We expect expansion of access to health insurance to increase the demand for our products and services, but other provisions of the Healthcare Reform Acts could affect us adversely.  The Healthcare Reform Acts contain many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions, including, as discussed in "Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below, a tax to be paid by medical device manufacturers.In addition, the Healthcare Reform Acts have provisions designed to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid, including changing the federal upper payment limit for Medicaid reimbursement to no less than 175 percent of the average weighted manufacturer's price ("AMP") from 250 percent of the lowest AMP for generic pharmaceuticals.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services is also considering providing states with alternatives to traditional reimbursement metrics.We could be adversely affected directly or indirectly (if our customers are adversely affected) by these and other changes in the delivery or pricing of, or reimbursement for, pharmaceuticals, medical devices or healthcare services.Our business is subject to rigorous regulatory and licensing requirements.The healthcare industry is highly regulated. As described in greater detail  in "Item 1-Business" above, we are subject to regulation in the United States at both the federal and state level and in foreign countries. In addition, the United States federal and state governments are devoting greater resources to the enforcement of these laws. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, or if allegations are made that we fail to comply, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.To lawfully operate our businesses, we are required to hold permits, licenses and other regulatory approvals from, and to comply with operating and security standards of, governmental bodies. Failure to maintain or renew necessary permits, licenses or approvals, or to comply with required standards, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  For example, see Note 9 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a discussion of regulatory matters relating to our distribution of controlled substances.Products that we manufacture, source, distribute or market are required to comply with regulatory requirements. Noncompliance or concerns over noncompliance may result in suspension of our ability to distribute, import or manufacture products, product recalls or seizures, or criminal and civil sanctions.We are required to comply with laws relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. If we fail to comply with them, we could be subject to federal or state government investigations, or false claims act proceedings initiated by private parties, which could result in civil and criminal sanctions, including the loss of licenses or the ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. The requirements of these laws are complicated and subject to interpretation and may be applied by a regulator, prosecutor or judge in a manner that could negatively impact us or require us to change our operations.  7Table of ContentsOur global operations are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions and with United States and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws. If we fail to comply with them, we could suffer civil and criminal sanctions.We could be subject to adverse changes in the tax laws or challenges to our tax positions.We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and many foreign countries. As a result, we are subject to the tax laws of many jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative initiatives are proposed, such as the repeal of last-in, first-out ("LIFO") treatment of inventory or the current U.S. taxation of income earned by foreign subsidiaries, that could adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition. Tax laws are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Tax authorities have challenged some of our tax positions and it is possible that they will challenge others. These challenges may adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition.CareFusion may not satisfy its contractual obligations.In August 2009, we entered into a tax matters agreement pursuant to which CareFusion is obligated to indemnify us for certain tax exposures and transaction taxes prior to the Spin-Off. The indemnification receivable was $265 million at June 30, 2012.  The failure of CareFusion to perform its obligations under this agreement could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The Spin-Off may have unexpected tax consequences.In connection with the Spin-Off, we received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to the effect that the contribution by us of the assets of the clinical and medical products businesses to CareFusion and the distribution of CareFusion shares to our shareholders would qualify as a tax-free transaction under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”). In addition, we received opinions of tax counsel to the effect that the Spin-Off would qualify as a transaction that is described in Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. The IRS private letter ruling and the opinions of counsel rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us and CareFusion regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, we and our shareholders may not be able to rely on the IRS ruling or the opinions of tax counsel. Similarly, the IRS could determine on audit that the Spin-Off is taxable if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if the IRS disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions of counsel that are not covered by the private letter ruling or for other reasons.  If the Spin-Off is determined to be taxable for United States federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders that are subject to United States federal income tax could incur significant tax liabilities. Our business and operations depend on the proper functioning of information systems and critical facilities.We rely on information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to:•facilitate the purchase and distribution of inventory items from numerous distribution centers;•receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;•manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers;•process payments to suppliers;•facilitate the manufacturing and assembly of medical products; and•generate financial information.Our business also depends on the proper functioning of our critical facilities, including our national logistics center. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if these systems or facilities, or our customers' access to them, are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, cyber security incidents or other actions of third parties, or fail for any extended period of time. Any data security breach could adversely impact our operations, results of operations or our ability to satisfy legal requirements, including those related to patient-identifiable health information.As further described below in "Item 9A-Controls and Procedures", the Medical segment has implemented a medical business transformation project, which includes a new information system for certain supply chain and financial processes. If the system fails to operate as intended, it could adversely affect Medical segment profit and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.Because of the nature of our business, we may become involved in legal proceedings that could adversely impact our cash flows or results of operations.Due to the nature of our businesses, which includes the manufacture and distribution of healthcare products, we may from time to time become involved in disputes or legal proceedings. For instance, some of the products we manufacture or distribute may be alleged to cause personal injury or violate the intellectual property rights of another party, subjecting us to product liability or infringement claims. While we generally obtain indemnity rights from the manufacturers of products we distribute and we carry product liability insurance, it is possible that liability from such claims could exceed those protections. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these legal proceedings could adversely affect our cash flows or results of operations. Acquisitions are not always as successful as we expect them to be.An important element of our growth strategy has been to acquire other businesses that expand or complement our existing businesses.  Acquisitions involve risks: we may overpay for a business or fail to realize the synergies and other benefits we expect from the acquisition; or we may encounter unforeseen accounting, internal control, regulatory or compliance issues.8Table of ContentsWe depend on certain suppliers to make their raw materials and products available to us and are subject to fluctuations in costs of raw materials and products.We depend on the availability of various components, compounds, raw materials (including radioisotopes) and energy supplied by others for our operations. Any of our supplier relationships could be interrupted due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, or could be terminated. A sustained supply interruption could have an adverse effect on our business. Our manufacturing businesses use oil-based resins, cotton, latex, and other commodities as raw materials in many products. Prices of oil and gas also affect our distribution and transportation costs. Prices of these commodities are volatile and have fluctuated significantly in recent years, so costs to produce and distribute our products also have fluctuated. Due to competitive dynamics and contractual limitations, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we cannot fully offset cost increases through other cost reductions, or recover these costs through price increases or surcharges, our results of operations could be adversely affected.Our global operations are subject to economic, political and currency risks.Our global operations are affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, currency volatility and competition. Political changes also can disrupt our global operations, as well as our customers and suppliers, in a particular location. We may not be able to hedge or obtain insurance to protect us against these risks, and any hedges or insurance may be expensive and may not successfully mitigate these risks.Economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products and services.Deterioration in general economic conditions in the United States and other countries in which we do business could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions filled and the number of medical procedures undertaken and, therefore, reduce purchases of our products and services by our customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Item 1B