Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for additional discussion of our
environmental risks.

           E. Consumer Regulations

     Our ships that call on U.S. ports are regulated by the Federal Maritime
Commission referred to as the "FMC". Public Law 89-777, which is administered by
the FMC, requires most cruise line operators to establish financial
responsibility for their liability to passengers for non-performance of
transportation, as well as casualty and personal injury. The FMC's regulations
require that a cruise line demonstrate its financial responsibility for
non-performance of transportation through a guarantee, escrow arrangement,
surety bond or insurance. Currently, the amount required must equal 110% of the
cruise line's highest amount of customer deposits over a two-year period, up to
a maximum coverage level of $15 million. See Part 1, Item 1. Business, E. -
"Insurance - Other Insurance" for additional discussion.

      In the UK, we are required to bond and obtain licenses from various
organizations in connection with the conduct of our business and our ability to
meet liability in the event of non-performance of obligations to consumers.
These organizations include the Passenger Shipping Association and the Civil
Aviation Authority. See Part 1, Item 1. Business, E. - "Insurance-Other
Insurance" for additional discussion.

      We are also required by German law to obtain a guarantee from a reputable
insurance company to ensure that, in case of insolvency, our customers will be
refunded any monies they have paid on account of a booking and, in addition,
that they will be repatriated without additional cost if insolvency occurs after
a cruise starts. In addition, in Australia, we are a member of the Travel
Compensation Fund which provides compensation, as a last resort, to consumers
who suffer losses in their dealings with travel agents. Finally, other
jurisdictions, including Argentina and Brazil, require the establishment of
financial responsibility for passengers from their jurisdictions.

      We believe we have all material licenses to conduct our business. From
time to time, various other regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed
or adopted that could have an effect on the cruise industry, in general, and our
business, in particular. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for a discussion of
other regulations which impact us.

      XVI. Financial Information

      For financial information about our cruise reporting segment and
geographic information with respect to each of the three years in the period
ended November 30, 2005, see Note 12, "Segment Information" to our Consolidated
Financial Statements in Exhibit 13 to this joint Annual Report on Form 10-K.

      C. Employees

      Our shoreside operations have approximately 9,500 full-time and 4,200
part-time/ seasonal employees. We also employ approximately 57,500 officers,
crew and staff onboard our 79 ships at any one time. Due to the highly seasonal
nature of our Alaskan and Canadian operations, Holland America Tours and
Princess Tours increase their work force during the late spring and summer
months in connection with the Alaskan cruise season, employing additional
seasonal personnel, which have been included above. We have entered into
agreements with unions covering certain employees in our hotel, motorcoach and
ship operations. We consider our employee and union relations generally to be
good.

      We source our shipboard officers primarily from Italy, the UK, Holland,
Germany and Norway. The remaining crew positions are manned by persons from
around the world. We utilize various manning agencies in many countries and
regions to help secure our shipboard employees.


                                       19


      D. Suppliers

      Our largest purchases are for travel agency services, fuel, advertising,
food and beverages, hotel and restaurant supplies and products, airfare, repairs
and maintenance and dry-docking, port facility utilization, communication
services and for the construction of our ships. Although we utilize a select
number of suppliers for most of our food and beverages and hotel and restaurant
supplies and products, most of these items are available from numerous sources
at competitive prices. The use of a select number of suppliers enables us to,
among other things, obtain volume discounts. We purchase fuel and port facility
services at some of our ports of call from a limited number of suppliers. In
addition, we perform our major dry-dock and ship improvement work at dry-dock
facilities in the Bahamas, British Columbia, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe and
the U.S. Finally, as of January 30, 2006, we have agreements in place for the
construction of 16 cruise ships by two shipyards. We believe there are
sufficient dry-dock and shipbuilding facilities to meet our anticipated
requirements.

      E. Insurance

      General

      We maintain insurance to cover a number of risks associated with owning
and operating vessels in international trade. All such insurance policies are
subject to coverage limits, exclusions and deductible levels. Insurance premium
increases are dependent on our own loss experience and the general premium
requirements of our underwriters. No assurance can be given that affordable and
viable direct and reinsurance markets will be available to us in the future. We
maintain certain levels of self-insurance for the below-mentioned risks, which
may increase in the future to mitigate premium increases. We do not carry
coverage related to loss of earnings or revenues for our ships.

      Protection and Indemnity ("P&I") Coverage

      Third-party liabilities in connection with our cruise activities are
covered by entry in P&I clubs, which are mutual indemnity associations owned by
ship owners. Our vessels are entered in three P&I clubs as follows: The West of
England Ship Owners Mutual Insurance Association (Luxembourg), The Steamship
Mutual Underwriting Association (Bermuda) Limited and the United Kingdom Mutual
Steam Ship Assurance Association (Bermuda) Limited. The P&I clubs in which we
participate are part of a worldwide group of P&I clubs, known as the
International Group of P&I Clubs (the "IG"). The IG insures directly, and
through reinsurance markets, a large portion of the world's shipping fleets.
Coverage is subject to the P&I clubs' rules and the limit of coverage is
determined by the IG. P&I coverage includes legal, statutory or pre-approved
contract liabilities and other expenses related to crew, passengers and other
third parties. This coverage also includes shipwreck removal, pollution and
damage to third party property.

      Hull and Machinery Insurance

      We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of each of our ships in
amounts equal to the estimated market value of each ship. The coverage for hull
and machinery is provided by international marine insurance carriers. Most
insurance underwriters make it a condition for insurance coverage that a ship be
certified as "in class" by a classification society that is a member of the
International Association of Classification Societies ("IACS"). All of our ships
are currently certified as in class with an IACS member. These certifications
have either been issued or endorsed within the last twelve months.

      War Risk Insurance

      We maintain war risk insurance, subject to coverage limits and exclusions
for claims such as those arising from chemical and biological attacks, on all of
our ships covering our legal liability to crew, passengers and other third
parties arising from war or war-like actions, including terrorist risks. This
coverage is provided by international marine insurance carriers. Due primarily
to its high cost, we only carry war risk insurance coverage for physical damage
to 43 of our 79 ships, which includes terrorist risks. The remaining 36 ships in
the fleet do not have war risk coverage for physical damage. Under the terms of
our war risk insurance coverage, which is typical for war risk policies in the
marine industry, underwriters can give seven days notice to the insured that the
liability and physical damage policies can be cancelled. In addition, the policy
can be reinstated at different premium rates. This gives underwriters the
ability to increase our premiums following events that they determine have
increased their risk. No assurance can be given that affordable and viable
direct and reinsurance markets will be available to us in the


                                       20


future for war risk insurance. See Note 8, "Contingencies" to our Consolidated
Financial Statements in Exhibit 13 to this joint Annual Report on Form 10-K.

      Other Insurance

      As required by the FMC, we maintain performance bonds or bank guarantees
in the aggregate amount of $105 million for ships operated by our brands which
embark passengers in U.S. ports, to cover passenger ticket liabilities in the
event of a cancelled or interrupted cruise. We also maintain other performance
bonds or guarantees as required by various U.S. and foreign authorities that
regulate certain of our operations in their jurisdictions; the most significant
of which are required by the UK Passenger Shipping Association and the UK Civil
Aviation Authority and total approximately 74 million sterling ($128 million
U.S. dollars at November 30, 2005 exchange rate) and 46 million sterling ($80
million U.S. dollars at the November 30, 2005 exchange rate), respectively, to
cover our brands' UK passenger and air ticket deposit liabilities.

      We maintain standard property and casualty insurance policies to cover
shoreside assets and liabilities to third parties, including our tour business
and port facility assets, as well as appropriate workers' compensation policies.
We also maintain business interruption insurance for Holland America Tour and
Princess Tour hotel properties and our Cozumel, Mexico port retail facilities,
which are also subject to deductibles.

      The Athens Convention

      Current conventions generally in force applying to passenger ships are the
Athens Convention relating to the Carriage of Passengers and their Luggage by
Sea (1974), the 1976 Protocol to the Athens Convention and the Convention on
Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims (1976). The U.S. has not ratified
any Athens Convention Protocol. However, vessels flying the flag of a country
that has ratified it may contractually enforce the 1976 Athens Convention
Protocol for cruises that do not call at a U.S. port.

      The IMO Diplomatic Conference agreed to a new protocol to the Athens
Convention on November 1, 2002. The new protocol, which has not yet been
ratified, substantially increases the minimum level of compulsory insurance
which must be maintained by passenger ship operators and provides a direct
action provision, which will allow claimants to proceed directly against
insurers. This new protocol requires passenger ship operators to maintain
insurance or some other form of financial security, such as a guarantee from a
bank, to cover the limits of strict liability under the Athens Convention with
regards to the death or personal injury of passengers. The timing of the
ratification of this new protocol, if obtained at all, is unknown. No assurance
can be given that affordable and viable direct and reinsurance markets will be
available to provide the level of coverage required under the new protocol. If
the new protocol is ratified, we expect insurance costs could increase.

      F. Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

      We own and have registered numerous trademarks and have also registered
various domain names, which we believe are widely recognized throughout the
world and have considerable value. These trademarks include the names of our
cruise lines, each of which we believe is a widely-recognized brand name in the
cruise vacation industry, as well as "World's Leading Cruise Lines." We have a
license to use the P&O name, the P&O flag and other relevant trademarks and
domain names in relation to cruises and related activities. Finally, we also
have a license to use the "Love Boat" name and related marks. See Note 2,
"Trademarks" to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 13 to this
joint Annual Report on Form 10-K.

      G. Taxation

      U.S. Federal Income Tax

      We are a foreign corporation engaged in a trade or business in the U.S.,
and our ship-owning subsidiaries are foreign corporations that, in many cases,
depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources
within the U.S. for U.S. federal income tax purposes. To the best of our
knowledge, we believe that, under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code and
applicable income tax treaties, our income and the income of our ship-owning
subsidiaries, in each case derived from or incidental to the international
operation of a ship or ships, is currently exempt from U.S. federal income tax.
This exempt income does not include our U.S. source income, principally from the
transportation,


                                       21


hotel and tour businesses of Holland America Tours and Princess Tours, and,
beginning with the year ended November 30, 2005, the items listed in the
regulations under Section 883 that the Internal Revenue Service does not
consider to be incidental to ship operations. Among the items that are
identified in the regulations as not incidental to ship operations are income
from the sale of air transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post cruise
land packages. In addition, during 2005, we chartered three vessels to the
Military Sealift Command in connection with the Hurricane Katrina relief effort.
Income from these charters is not considered to be income from the international
operation of our ships and, accordingly, income taxes will be assessed on the
net earnings of these charters.

      The following summary of the application of the principal U.S. federal
income tax laws to us is based upon existing U.S. federal income tax law,
including the Internal Revenue Code, proposed, temporary and final U.S. Treasury
regulations, certain current income tax treaties, administrative pronouncements
and judicial decisions, as currently in effect, all of which are subject to
change, possibly with retroactive effect.

          Application of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code

      In general, under Section 883, certain non-U.S. corporations are not
subject to U.S. federal income tax or branch profits tax on U.S. source income
derived from, or incidental to, the international operation of a ship or ships.
Effective for our year ended November 30, 2005, regulations provide, in general,
that a foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits of Section 883 if, in
relevant part, (i) the foreign country in which the foreign corporation is
organized grants an equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the U.S.
and (ii) the foreign corporation meets the publicly-traded test described below.
In addition, to the extent a foreign corporation's shares are owned by a direct
or indirect parent corporation which itself meets the publicly-traded test, then
in analyzing the stock ownership test with respect to such subsidiary, stock
owned directly or indirectly by such parent corporation will be deemed owned by
individuals resident in the country of incorporation of such parent corporation.

      A company whose shares are considered to be "primarily and regularly
traded on an established securities market" in the U.S. or another qualifying
jurisdiction will meet the publicly-traded test (the "publicly-traded test").
Stock will be considered "primarily traded" on one or more established
securities markets if, with respect to each class of stock of the particular
corporation, the number of shares in each such class that are traded during a
taxable year on any such market exceeds the number of shares in each such class
traded during that year on any other established securities market. Stock of a
corporation will generally be considered "regularly traded" on one or more
established securities markets under the regulations if (i) one or more classes
of stock of the corporation that, in the aggregate, represent more than 50% of
the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of such corporation
entitled to vote and of the total value of the stock of such corporation are
listed on such market; and (ii) with respect to each class relied on to meet the
more than 50% requirement in (i) above, (x) trades in each such class are
effected, other than in de minimis quantities, on such market on at least 60
days during the taxable year, and (y) the aggregate number of shares in each
such class of the stock that are traded on such market during the taxable year
is at least 10% of the average number of shares of the stock outstanding in that
class during the taxable year. A class of stock that otherwise meets the
requirements outlined in the preceding sentence is not treated as meeting such
requirements for a taxable year if, at any time during the taxable year, one or
more persons who own, actually or constructively, at least 5% of the vote and
value of the outstanding shares of the class of stock, own, in the aggregate,
50% or more of the vote and value of the outstanding shares of the class of
stock (the "5% Override Rule"). However, the 5% Override Rule does not apply (a)
where the foreign corporation establishes that Qualified Shareholders own
sufficient shares of the closely-held block of stock to preclude non-Qualified
Shareholders of the closely-held block of stock from owning 50% or more of the
total value of the class of stock for more than half of the taxable year; or (b)
to certain investment companies provided that no person owns, directly or
through attribution, both 5% or more of the value of the outstanding interests
in such investment company and 5% or more of the value of the shares of the
class of stock of the foreign corporation.

      We believe that Carnival Corporation currently qualifies as a publicly
traded corporation under the regulations and substantially all of its income,
with the exceptions noted above, will continue to be exempt from U.S. federal
income taxes. However, because various members of the Arison family and trusts
established for their benefit currently own approximately 36% of Carnival
Corporation shares, there is the potential that additional shareholders could
acquire 5% or more of its shares, which could result in Carnival Corporation
being considered closely held, and thus jeopardize its qualification as a


                                       22


publicly traded corporation. If, in the future, Carnival Corporation were to
fail to qualify as a publicly traded corporation, it and all of its ship-owning
or operating subsidiaries that rely on Section 883 for exempting cruise
operations income would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their U.S.
source cruise operation income. In such event, the net income of Carnival
Corporation's ship-owning or operating subsidiaries would be materially reduced.

      As a precautionary matter, Carnival Corporation amended its articles of
incorporation in fiscal 2000 to ensure that it would continue to qualify as a
publicly traded corporation under these regulations when they were originally
proposed. As applied to Carnival Corporation, the final regulations are
substantially the same as the proposed regulations. This amendment provides that
no one person or group of related persons, other than certain members of the
Arison family and trusts established for their benefit, may own or be deemed to
own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code more
than 4.9% of Carnival Corporation shares, whether measured by vote, value or
number of shares. Any Carnival Corporation shares acquired in violation of this
provision will be transferred to a trust and, at the direction of its board of
directors, sold to a person whose shareholding does not violate that provision.
No profit for the purported transferee may be realized from any such sale. In
addition, under specified circumstances, the trust may transfer the common stock
at a loss to the purported transferee. Because certain of Carnival Corporation
notes are convertible into its shares, the transfer of these notes are subject
to similar restrictions. These transfer restrictions may also have the effect of
delaying or preventing a change in control or other transactions in which the
shareholders might receive a premium for Carnival Corporation shares over the
then prevailing market price or which the shareholders might believe to be
otherwise in their best interest.

      Although the above represents our interpretation of this Internal Revenue
Code provision and the U.S. Treasury regulations, the Internal Revenue Service's
interpretation of these provisions could differ materially. In addition, the
provisions of Section 883 are subject to change at any time by legislation.
Moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the trading volume
or trading frequency of Carnival Corporation shares or with respect to the
identity, residence, or holdings of Carnival Corporation's direct or indirect
shareholders that could affect Carnival Corporation's and its subsidiaries
eligibility for the Section 883 exemption. Accordingly, although we believe it
is unlikely, it is possible that Carnival Corporation and its ship-owning or
operating subsidiaries' whose tax exemption is based on Section 883 could lose
this exemption. If Carnival Corporation and/or its ship-owning or operating
subsidiaries were not entitled to the benefit of Section 883, Carnival
Corporation and/or its ship-owning or operating subsidiaries would be subject to
U.S. federal income taxation on a portion of our income.

          Exemption Under Applicable Income Tax Treaties

      We believe that the income of some of Carnival Corporation's ship-owning
subsidiaries and the U.S. source shipping income from Carnival plc and its UK
and Italian resident subsidiaries currently qualify for exemption from U.S.
federal income tax under applicable bilateral U.S. income tax treaties. There
is, however, no authority that directly addresses the effect, if any, of DLC
arrangements on the availability of benefits under the treaties and,
consequently, the matter is not free from doubt. These treaties may be abrogated
by either applicable country, replaced or modified with new agreements that
treat shipping income differently than under the agreements currently in force.
If any of our subsidiaries that currently claim exemption from U.S. income
taxation on their U.S. source shipping income under an applicable treaty do not
qualify for benefits under the existing treaties, or if the existing treaties
are abrogated, replaced or materially modified in a manner adverse to our
interests and, with respect to U.S. federal income tax only, if any such
subsidiary does not qualify for Section 883 exemption, such ship-owning or
operating subsidiary may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on a portion
of its income, which would reduce our net income.

          Taxation in the Absence of an Exemption under Section 883 or any
          Applicable U.S. Income Tax Treaty

      Shipping income that is attributable to transportation of passengers which
begins or ends in the U.S. is considered to be 50% derived from U.S. sources.
Shipping income that is attributable to transportation of passengers which
begins and ends in foreign countries is considered 100% derived from foreign
sources. Shipping income that is attributable to the transportation of
passengers which begins and ends in the U.S. without stopping at an intermediate
foreign port is considered to be 100% derived from U.S. sources.


                                       23


      The legislative history of the transportation income source rules suggests
that a cruise that begins and ends in a U.S. port, but that calls on more than
one foreign port, will derive U.S. source income only from the first and last
legs of the cruise. Because there are no regulations or other Internal Revenue
Service interpretations of these rules, the applicability of the transportation
income source rules in the aforesaid manner is not free from doubt.

      In the absence of an exemption under Section 883 or any applicable U.S.
income tax treaty, as appropriate, we and/or our subsidiaries would be subject
to either the net income and branch profits tax regimes of Section 882 and
Section 884 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "net tax regime") or the four
percent of gross income tax regime of Section 887 of the Internal Revenue Code
(the "four percent tax regime").

      Where the relevant foreign corporation has, or is considered to have, a
fixed place of business in the U.S. that is involved in the earning of U.S.
source shipping income and substantially all of this shipping income is
attributable to regularly scheduled transportation, the net tax regime is
applicable. If the foreign corporation does not have a fixed place of business
in the U.S. or substantially all of its income is not derived from regularly
scheduled transportation, the four percent tax regime will apply.

      The net tax regime should be the tax regime applied to Carnival
Corporation in the absence of an exemption under Section 883. Under the net tax
regime, U.S. source shipping income, net of applicable deductions, would be
subject to a corporate tax of up to 35% and the net after-tax income would be
potentially subject to a further branch tax of 30%. In addition, interest paid
by the corporations, if any, would generally be subject to a branch interest
tax.

      The four percent tax regime should be the tax regime applicable to our
vessel owning subsidiaries based outside the United States, in the absence of an
exemption under Section 883 or any applicable U.S. income tax treaty. Under the
four percent tax regime, gross U.S. source shipping income would be subject to a
four percent tax, without the benefit of deductions.

      UK Income Tax

      Cunard, Ocean Village, P&O Cruises, P&O Cruises Australia and Swan
Hellenic are all strategically and commercially managed in the UK and have
elected to enter the UK tonnage tax regime. Companies to which the tonnage tax
regime applies pay corporation tax on profit calculated by reference to the net
tonnage of qualifying vessels. UK corporation tax is not chargeable under normal
UK tax rules on such companies' relevant shipping profits. For a company to be
eligible for the regime, it must be subject to UK corporation tax and, among
other matters, operate qualifying ships that are strategically and commercially
managed in the UK. There is also a seafarer training requirement to which the
tonnage tax companies are subject.

      Profits which are excluded from normal corporation tax include income
which is defined as relevant shipping income. Relevant shipping income includes
income from the operation of qualifying ships and broadly from shipping related
activities. It also includes dividends from foreign companies, which are subject
to a tax on profits in their country of residence or elsewhere and the
activities of which broadly would qualify in full for the UK tonnage tax regime
if they were UK resident. In addition, more than 50 percent of the voting power
in the foreign company must be held by one or more companies resident in a EU
member state.

      Our UK non-shipping activities that do not qualify under the UK tonnage
tax regime, which are not forecast to be significant, remain subject to normal
UK corporation tax.

      Italian and German Income Tax

      In November 2004, the German brand of Carnival plc, AIDA, became a
division of Costa. From the date of this change, AIDA's income is subject to
Italian income tax. The majority of the profits earned by our German brands are
exempt from German corporation taxes by virtue of the Italy/Germany double tax
treaty.

      During the 2005 third quarter, Costa elected to enter into the Italian
Tonnage Tax regime, effective for its 2005 fiscal year, and for the following
nine years. This regime will tax Costa's and AIDA's shipping profits, as
defined, calculated by reference to the net tonnage of its qualifying vessels.
However, income not considered to be shipping profits for Italian Tonnage Tax
purposes will be taxed under Costa's and AIDA's current tax


                                       24


regime for its Italian-registered ships, which results in a tax of approximately
6.6% on these non-tonnage tax profits.

      Australian Income Tax

      P&O Cruises Australia is a division of Carnival plc, and the income from
this operation, is subject to UK tonnage tax as discussed above. The majority of
this operation's profits are exempt from Australian corporation taxes by virtue
of the UK/Australian double tax treaty.

      H. Website Access to Carnival Corporation & plc SEC Reports

      We make available, free of charge, access to our joint Annual Report on
Form 10-K, joint Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, joint Current Reports on Form
8-K, Section 16 filings and all amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or
furnished to the SEC through our home pages at www.carnivalcorp.com and
www.carnivalplc.com.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.

      You should carefully consider the specific risk factors set forth below,
as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this
joint Annual Report on Form 10-K, as these are important factors, among others,
that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical
results. Some of the statements in this section and elsewhere in this joint
Annual Report on Form 10-K are "forward-looking statements." For a discussion of
those statements and of other factors to consider see the "Cautionary Note
Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results" section below.

      (1) We may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market.

      We face significant competition from other cruise lines, both on the basis
of cruise pricing and also in terms of the types of ships, services and
destinations we offer to cruise passengers. In addition, we may need to enhance
our older ships with current amenities in order for those ships to be more
competitive with other cruise ships. Our principal competitors include the
companies listed in this joint Annual Report on Form 10-K under Part 1, Item 1.
Business, B. - "Cruise Operations - Competition."

      However, we operate in the vacation market, and cruising is only one of
many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. We therefore risk losing
business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators
that provide other travel and leisure options, including hotels, resorts and
package holidays and tours.

      In the event that we do not compete effectively with other cruise
companies and other vacation alternatives, our results of operations and
financial condition could be adversely affected.

      (2)   The international political and economic climate and other world
            events affecting safety and security could adversely affect the
            demand for cruises and could harm our future sales and
            profitability.

      Demand for cruises and other vacation options has been, and is expected to
continue to be, affected by the public's attitude towards the safety of travel,
the international political climate and the political climate of destination
countries. Events such as the terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11,
2001 and the threats of additional attacks in the U.S. and elsewhere, concerns
of an outbreak of additional hostilities and national government travel
advisories, together with the resulting political instability and concerns over
safety and security aspects of traveling, have had a significant adverse impact
on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry and may continue to do
so in the future. Demand for cruises is also likely to be increasingly dependent
on the underlying economic strength of the countries from which cruise companies
source their passengers. Economic or political changes that reduce disposable
income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we source our
passengers may affect demand for vacations, including cruise vacations, which
are a discretionary purchase. Decreases in demand could lead to price
discounting which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business.

      (3)   Overcapacity within the cruise and land-based vacation industry
            could have a negative impact on net revenue yields and increase
            operating costs, thus resulting in ship, goodwill and/or trademark
            asset impairments, all of which


                                       25


            could adversely affect profitability.

      Cruising capacity has grown in recent years and we expect it to continue
to increase over the next five years as all of the major cruise vacation
companies are expected to introduce new ships. In order to utilize new capacity,
the cruise vacation industry will probably need to increase its share of the
overall vacation market. The overall vacation market is also facing increases in
land-based vacation capacity, which also will impact us. Failure to increase our
share of the overall vacation market is one of a number of factors that could
have a negative impact on our net revenue yields. In some prior years, our net
revenue yields were negatively impacted as a result of a variety of factors,
including capacity increases. Should net revenue yields be negatively impacted,
our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected,
including the impairment of the value of our ships, goodwill and/or trademark
assets. In addition, increased cruise capacity could impact our ability to
retain and attract qualified crew at competitive costs and, therefore, increase
our shipboard employee costs.

      (4)   Our future operating cash flow may not be sufficient to fund future
            obligations, and we may not be able to obtain additional financing,
            if necessary, at a cost that is favorable or that meets our
            expectations.

      Our forecasted cash flow from future operations may be adversely affected
by various factors, including, but not limited to, declines in customer demand,
increased competition, overcapacity, the deterioration in general economic and
business conditions, terrorist attacks, ship accidents and other incidents,
adverse publicity and increases in fuel prices, as well as other factors noted
under these "Risk Factors" and under the "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors
That May Affect Future Results" section below. To the extent that we are
required, or choose, to fund future cash requirements, including future
shipbuilding commitments, from sources other than cash flow from operations,
cash on hand and current external sources of liquidity, including committed
financings, we will have to secure such financing from banks or through the
offering of debt and/or equity securities in the public or private markets.

      Our access to, and the cost of, financing will depend on, among other
things, the maintenance of strong long-term credit ratings. Carnival Corporation
and Carnival plc's senior, unsecured long-term debt ratings are "A3" by Moody's,
"A-" by Standard & Poor's and "A-" by Fitch Ratings. Carnival Corporation's
short-term corporate credit ratings are "Prime-2" by Moody's, "A-2" by Standard
& Poor's and "F2" by Fitch Ratings.

      (5)   Accidents and other incidents, unusual weather conditions or adverse
            publicity concerning the cruise industry or us could affect our
            reputation and harm our future sales and profitability.

      The operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, passenger
and crew illnesses, mechanical failures and other incidents at sea or while in
port, which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and
vacation satisfaction, and thereby adversely effect future industry performance,
sales and profitability. In addition, our cruises and port facilities may be
impacted by unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as hurricanes
and earthquakes. For example, Hurricane Wilma caused the temporary closing of
cruise ports in South Florida and also destroyed our pier facility in Cozumel,
Mexico. It is possible that we could be forced to alter itineraries or cancel a
cruise or a series of cruises due to these factors, which would have an adverse
affect on sales and profitability. In addition, adverse publicity concerning the
vacation industry in general or the cruise industry or us in particular could
affect our reputation and impact demand and, consequently, have an adverse
affect on our profitability.

      (6)   We are subject to many economic and political factors that are
            beyond our control, which could result in increases in our
            operating, financing and tax costs.

      Some of our operating costs, including fuel, food, insurance, payroll and
security costs, are subject to increases because of market forces, economic or
political instability or decisions beyond our control. In addition, interest
rates, currency fluctuations and our ability to obtain debt or equity financing
are dependent on many economic and political factors. Actions by U.S. and
non-U.S. taxing jurisdictions could also cause an increase in our costs.

      Recently, the State of Alaska determined that an Initiative Petition (the
"Initiative") to, among other things, impose a tax on cruise passengers sailing
in Alaskan waters had sufficient signatures to qualify for the August, 2006
statewide primary election ballot. If the Initiative is approved by the voters,
it would


                                       26


likely take effect in 2007. The Initiative would impose a $46 per passenger tax
on cruise passengers aboard vessels with at least 250 berths, an additional fee
of $4 per passenger for an Ocean Ranger program, remove the exemption from
Alaska corporate income taxes for commercial passenger vessels and assess a 33%
tax on income from onboard gambling. The Initiative would also impose a number
of other regulations, reporting and operational requirements on cruise vessel
operators. Some or all of these provisions may be subject to legal challenges if
the Initiative is approved.

      Separately, two bills have been introduced for consideration in the Alaska
Legislature. No action was taken on either of these bills. The legislature has
until the end of the 2006 session to consider these bills. One bill would impose
taxes of $50 per cruise passenger and the other bill proposes a tax of $75 per
passenger. Similar legislation has been proposed in Alaska in the past and has
not been approved. Both measures raise legal questions and it is uncertain
whether either bill will be passed in its current form.

      It is expected that any proposed passenger taxes, such as the Initiative
discussed above, would be directly charged to and collected from our guests.
However, if any of these taxes are enacted, it is likely that we would consider
reducing the number of our ships that offer Alaskan cruises, in order to reduce
the adverse impact of these taxes on our net income. The ultimate outcomes of
these Alaskan matters cannot be determined at this time.

      Increases in operating, financing and tax costs could adversely affect our
results because we may not be able to recover these increased costs through
price increases of our cruise vacations.

      (7)   Environmental legislation and regulations could affect operations
            and increase our operating costs.

      Some environmental groups have lobbied for more stringent regulation of
cruise ships. Some groups have also generated negative publicity about the
cruise industry and its environmental impact. The U.S. Congress, the
International Maritime Organization and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
periodically consider new laws and regulations to manage cruise ship pollution.
In addition, various other regulatory agencies in the States of Alaska,
California, Florida, Hawaii, Maine, Washington and elsewhere, including European
regulatory organizations, have enacted or are considering new regulations or
policies, which could adversely impact the cruise industry. See Part I, Item 1.
Business, B. - "Cruise Operations - Governmental Regulations" for additional
information.

      In addition, pursuant to a settlement with the U.S. government in April
2002, Carnival Corporation pled guilty to certain environmental violations and
was fined. Carnival Corporation was also placed on probation for a term of five
years. Under the terms of the probation, any future violation of environmental
laws by Carnival Corporation may be deemed a violation of probation, which could
result in additional fines and other forms of relief.

      Current and future environmental laws and regulations, or liabilities
arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or
to vessel discharges, could increase our cost of compliance or otherwise
materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial
condition.

      (8)   New regulations of health, safety, security and other regulatory
            issues could increase our operating costs or negatively effect our
            bookings and future net revenue yields and adversely affect net
            income.

      We are subject to various international, national, state and local health,
safety and security laws, regulations and treaties. See Part I, Item 1.
Business, B. - "Cruise Operations-Governmental Regulations" for a detailed
discussion of these regulatory issues.

      We believe that health, safety, security and other regulatory issues will
continue to be areas of focus by relevant government authorities in the U.S.,
Europe and elsewhere. Resulting legislation or regulations, or changes in
existing legislation or regulations, could impact our operations and would
likely subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future.

      Pursuant to the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, U.S. citizens will
be required to carry a passport for travel to or from certain countries/areas
that were previously exempt, such as the Caribbean, Canada and Mexico. The
regulations are currently scheduled to require all U.S. citizens that enter the
U.S. from these previously exempt locations by


                                       27


air or sea to have a passport by December 31, 2006, and those citizens entering
at land border crossings will have to have a passport by December 31, 2007.

      Since many cruise customers visiting these destinations may not currently
have passports, it is likely that this will have some negative effect on our
bookings and future net revenue yields when the regulations take effect. There
are a number of factors that could influence the ultimate impact of these
regulations, such as customer travel patterns, customer price sensitivity and
the cost and effectiveness of mitigating programs we and others have
established. However, although we cannot be certain, we do not currently expect
that these regulations will ultimately have a material adverse effect on our
operating results, as a significant portion of our revenues are derived from
cruises to destinations other than those mentioned above, a substantial portion
of our U.S. citizen customers already have passports and we expect a large
number of U.S. citizen travelers who do not have passports will obtain them.

      (9)   Delays in ship construction and problems encountered at shipyards
            could reduce our profitability.

      The construction of cruise ships is a complex process and involves risks
similar to those encountered in other sophisticated construction projects,
including delays in completion and delivery. In addition, industrial actions and
insolvency or financial problems of the shipyards building our ships could also
delay or prevent the delivery of our ships under construction. These events
could adversely affect our profitability. However, the impact from a delay in
delivery could be mitigated by contractual provisions and refund guarantees
obtained by us.

      In addition, as of November 30, 2005, we had entered into foreign currency
swaps to fix the cost in dollars or sterling of three of our foreign currency
denominated shipbuilding contracts. If the shipyard with which we have
contracted is unable to perform under the related contracts, the foreign
currency swaps related to the shipyard's shipbuilding contracts would still have
to be honored. This might require us to realize a loss on existing foreign
currency swaps without having the ability to have an offsetting gain on our
foreign currency denominated shipbuilding contracts, thus resulting in an
adverse effect on our financial results.

      (10)  The lack of attractive port destinations for our cruise ships could
            reduce our net revenue yields and net income.

      We believe that attractive port destinations, including ports that are not
overly congested with tourists, are major reasons why our customers choose a
cruise versus an alternative vacation option. The availability of ports,
including the specific port facility at which our guests will embark and
disembark, is affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to,
existing capacity constraints, security concerns, unusual weather patterns and
natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, political
instability, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors,
local governmental regulations and charges and local community concerns about
both port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from
additional tourists. The inability to continue to maintain and increase our
ports of call could adversely affect our net revenue yields and net income.

      (11)  The structure of the DLC transaction involves risks not associated
            with the more common ways of combining the operations of two
            companies, and these risks may have an adverse effect on the
            economic performance of the companies and/or their respective share
            prices.

      The DLC structure is a relatively uncommon way of combining the management
and operations of two companies and it involves different issues and risks from
those associated with the other more common ways of effecting a business
combination, such as a merger or exchange offer to create a wholly owned
subsidiary. In the DLC transaction, the combination was effected primarily by
means of contracts between Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc and not by
operation of a statute or court order. The legal effect of these contractual
rights may be different from the legal effect of a merger or amalgamation under
statute or court order, and there may be difficulties in enforcing these
contractual rights. Shareholders and creditors of either company might challenge
the validity of the contracts or their lack of standing to enforce rights under
these contracts, and courts may interpret or enforce these contracts in a manner
inconsistent with the express provisions and intentions we included in such
contracts. In addition, shareholders and creditors of other companies might
successfully challenge other DLC structures and establish legal precedents that
could increase the risk of a successful challenge to the DLC transaction.


                                       28


We are maintaining two separate public companies and comply with both Panamanian
corporate law and English company laws and different securities and other
regulatory and stock exchange requirements in the UK and the U.S. This structure
requires more administrative time and cost than was the case for each company
individually, which may have an adverse effect on our operating efficiency.

      (12)  Changes under the Internal Revenue Code, applicable U.S. income tax
            treaties, and the uncertainty of the DLC structure under the
            Internal Revenue Code may adversely affect the U.S. federal income
            taxation of our U.S. source shipping income. In addition, changes in
            the UK, Italian, German, Australian and other countries income tax
            laws, regulations or treaties could also adversely affect our net
            income.

      We believe that substantially all of the U.S. source shipping income of
each of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc qualifies for exemption from U.S.
federal income tax, either under (1) Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code;
(2) U.S.-Italian income tax treaty; or (3) other applicable U.S. income tax
treaties, and should continue to so qualify under the DLC structure. There is,
however, no existing U.S. federal income tax authority that directly addresses
the tax consequences of implementation of a dual listed company structure for
purposes of Section 883 or any other provision of the Internal Revenue Code or
any income tax treaty and, consequently, these matters are not free from doubt.

      As discussed above, if we did not qualify for exemption from U.S. federal
income taxes we would have higher income taxes and lower net income. Finally,
changes in the income tax laws affecting our cruise businesses in the UK, Italy,
Germany, Australia and elsewhere could result in higher income taxes being
levied on our cruise operations, thus resulting in lower net income.

      See Part I, Item 1. Business, G. - "Taxation" for additional information.

      (13)  A small group of shareholders collectively owned, as of January 31,
            2006, approximately 29% of the total combined voting power of our
            outstanding shares and may be able to effectively control the
            outcome of shareholder voting.

      A group of shareholders, consisting of some members of the Arison family,
including Micky Arison, and trusts established for their benefit, beneficially
owned approximately 36% of the outstanding common stock of Carnival Corporation,
which shares represent sufficient shares entitled to constitute a quorum at
shareholder meetings and to cast approximately 29% of the total combined voting
power of Carnival Corporation & plc. Depending upon the nature and extent of the
shareholder vote, this group of shareholders may have the power to effectively
control, or at least to influence substantially, the outcome of certain
shareholder votes and, therefore, the corporate actions requiring such votes.

      (14)  Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are not U.S. corporations, and
            our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign
            legal system in protecting their interests.

      Carnival Corporation's corporate affairs are governed by its third amended
and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and by
the corporate laws of Panama. Carnival plc is governed by its articles of
association and memorandum of association and by the corporate laws of England
and Wales. The corporate laws of Panama and England and Wales may differ in some
respects from the corporate laws in the U.S.

      (15)  Provisions in Carnival Corporation's and Carnival plc's
            constitutional documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and
            business combinations that our shareholders might consider to be in
            their best interests.

      Carnival Corporation's amended articles of incorporation and by-laws and
Carnival plc's articles of association contain provisions that may delay, defer,
prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders
consider to be in their best interests. For instance, these provisions may
prevent our shareholders from receiving a premium to the market price of our
shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a
takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the
prevailing market price of our shares if they are viewed as discouraging
takeover attempts in the future.

      Specifically, Carnival Corporation's articles of incorporation contain
provisions that prevent third parties, other than the Arison family and trusts
established for their


                                       29


benefit, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of its
outstanding shares without the consent of Carnival Corporation's board of
directors and provide for the lapse of rights, and sale, of any shares acquired
in excess of that limit. The effect of these provisions may preclude third
parties from seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us in transactions
that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may prevent
them from receiving a premium above market price for their shares. For a
description of the reasons for the provisions see Part I, Item 1. Business, G. -
"Taxation- Application of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code."

      Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results

      Some of the statements contained in this joint Annual Report on Form 10-K
are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks, uncertainties and
assumptions with respect to us, including some statements concerning future
results, outlook, plans, goals and other events which have not yet occurred.
These statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability
provided by Section 27A of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of
the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can find many, but not all, of
these statements by looking for words like "will," "may," "believes," "expects,"
"anticipates," "forecast," "future," "intends," "plans," and "estimates" and for
similar expressions.

      Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there
are many factors that could cause our actual results, performance or
achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this joint
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements include those statements
which may impact the forecasting of our earnings per share, net revenue yields,
booking levels, pricing, occupancy, operating, financing and/or tax costs, fuel
costs, cost per available lower berth day, estimates of ship depreciable lives
and/or residual values, outlook or business prospects.

      Certain of our risks are identified in "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Cautionary Note
Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results" in Exhibit 13 to this joint
Annual Report on Form 10-K and in this Item 1A. "Risk Factors." These sections
contain important cautionary statements and a discussion of many of the factors
that could materially affect the accuracy of our forward-looking statements
and/or adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial
position.

      Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of
actual results. Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or
any relevant listing rules, we expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate,
after the date of this joint Annual Report on Form 10-K, any updates or
revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in
expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements
are based.

Item 1B