Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” for additional discussion of our environmental
risks. 

                    E.
Consumer Regulations 

          Our
ships that call on U.S. ports are regulated by the Federal Maritime Commission
referred to as the “FMC”. Public Law 89-777, which is administered by the FMC,
requires most cruise line operators to establish financial responsibility for
their liability to passengers for non-performance of transportation, as well as
casualty and personal injury. The FMC’s regulations require that a cruise line
demonstrate its financial responsibility for non-performance of transportation
through a guarantee, escrow arrangement, surety bond or insurance. Currently,
the amount required must equal 110% of the cruise line’s highest amount of
customer deposits over a two-year period, up to a maximum coverage level of $15
million. See Part 1, Item 1. Business. E. - “Insurance – Other Insurance” for
additional information. 

          In
the UK, we are currently required to bond and obtain licenses from various
organizations in connection with the conduct of our business and our ability to
meet liability in the event of non-performance of obligations to consumers.
These organizations include Abta (formerly the Association of British Travel
Agents) and the Civil Aviation Authority. See Part 1, Item 1. Business. E. -
“Insurance-Other Insurance” for additional information. 

          We
are also required by German and French law to obtain a guarantee from a
reputable insurance company to ensure that, in case of insolvency, our
customers will be refunded any monies they have paid on account of a booking
and, in addition, that they will be repatriated without additional cost if
insolvency occurs after a cruise starts. In addition, in Australia, we are a
member of the Travel Compensation Fund which provides compensation, as a last
resort, to consumers who suffer losses in their dealings with travel agents.
Finally, other jurisdictions, including Argentina and Brazil, require the
establishment of financial responsibility for passengers from their
jurisdictions. 

          We
believe we have all material licenses to conduct our business. From time to
time, various other regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed or
adopted that could have an effect on the cruise industry, in general, and our
business, in particular. See Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” for a discussion
of other regulations which impact us. 

          XVI.
Financial Information

          For
financial information about our cruise reporting segment and geographic
information with respect to each of the three years in the period ended
November 30, 2007, see Note 11, “Segment Information” to our Consolidated
Financial Statements in Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. 

          C.
Employees

          Our
shoreside operations have approximately 10,900 full-time and 4,700
part-time/seasonal employees. We also employ approximately 65,600 crew,
including officers, and staff onboard our 85 ships at any one time. Due to the
highly seasonal nature of our Alaskan and Canadian operations, Holland America
Tours and Princess Tours increase their work force during the late spring and
summer months in connection with the Alaskan cruise season, employing
additional seasonal personnel, which have been included above. We have entered
into agreements with unions covering certain employees in our hotel,
transportation and ship operations. We consider our employee and union
relations generally to be good. 

          We
source our shipboard officers primarily from Italy, the UK, Holland, Germany
and Norway. The remaining crew positions are manned by persons from around the
world. We utilize various manning agencies in many countries and regions to
help secure our shipboard employees.

22



          D.
Suppliers

          Our
largest purchases are for travel agency services, fuel, advertising, food and
beverages, hotel and restaurant products and supplies, airfare, repairs and
maintenance, including dry-docking, port facility utilization, communication
services and for the construction of our ships. Although we utilize a select
number of suppliers for most of our food and beverages and hotel and restaurant
products and supplies, most of these items are available from numerous sources
at competitive prices. The use of a select number of suppliers enables us to,
among other things, obtain volume discounts. We purchase fuel and port facility
services at some of our ports of call from a limited number of suppliers. In
addition, we perform our major dry-dock and ship improvement work at dry-dock
facilities in Australia, the Bahamas, British Columbia, Canada, the Caribbean,
Europe, Singapore, and the U.S. Finally, as of January 29, 2008, we have
agreements in place for the construction of 22 cruise ships with three
shipyards. We believe there are sufficient dry-dock and shipbuilding facilities
to meet our anticipated repair, maintenance, refurbishment and newbuild
requirements. 

          E.
Insurance 

          General


          We
maintain insurance to cover a number of risks associated with owning and
operating vessels in international trade. All such insurance policies are
subject to coverage limits, exclusions and deductible levels. Insurance premium
increases are dependent on our own loss experience and the general premium
requirements of our underwriters. We cannot be certain that affordable and
viable direct and reinsurance markets will be available to us in the future. We
maintain certain levels of self-insurance for some of the below-mentioned
risks, some of which have increased in recent years, and we may increase our
self insurance levels further in the future to mitigate premium increases. We
do not carry coverage related to loss of earnings or revenues from our ships. 

          Protection
and Indemnity (“P&I”) Coverage 

          Third-party
liabilities in connection with our cruise activities are covered by entry in
P&I clubs, which are mutual indemnity associations owned by ship owners.
Our vessels are entered in three P&I clubs as follows: The West of England
Ship Owners Mutual Insurance Association (Luxembourg), The Steamship Mutual
Underwriting Association (Bermuda) Limited and the United Kingdom Mutual Steam
Ship Assurance Association (Bermuda) Limited. The P&I clubs in which we
participate are part of a worldwide group of P&I clubs, known as the
International Group of P&I Clubs (the “IG”). The IG insures directly, and
through reinsurance markets, a large portion of the world’s shipping fleets.
Coverage is subject to the P&I clubs’ rules and the limit of coverage is
determined by the IG. P&I coverage includes legal, statutory or
pre-approved contract liabilities and other expenses related to crew, guests
and other third parties. This coverage also includes shipwreck removal, pollution
and damage to third party property. 

          Hull
and Machinery Insurance 

          We
maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of each of our ships in amounts
equal to the estimated market value of each ship. The coverage for hull and
machinery is provided by international marine insurance carriers. Most
insurance underwriters make it a condition for insurance coverage that a ship
be certified as “in class” by a classification society that is a member of the
International Association of Classification Societies (“IACS”). All of our
ships are currently certified as in class by an IACS member. These
certifications have either been issued or endorsed within the last twelve
months. 

          War
Risk Insurance 

          We
maintain war risk insurance coverage for liability and physical damage, subject
to coverage limits, deductibles and exclusions for claims such as those arising
from chemical, nuclear and biological attacks, on all of our ships covering our
legal liability to crew, guests and other third parties as well as loss or
damage to our vessels arising from war or war-like actions, including terrorist
incidents. This coverage is provided by international marine insurance carriers
and Mutual War Risk Clubs. In addition, excess war risk insurance is provided
by our three P&I clubs for all our ships. Under the terms of our war risk
insurance coverage, which is typical for war risk policies in the marine
industry, underwriters can give seven days notice to the insured that the
liability and physical  

23



damage policies can be cancelled. However, the policy
can be reinstated at different premium rates.
This gives underwriters the ability to increase our premiums following events
that they determine have increased their risk. 

          Other
Insurance 

          As
required by the FMC, we maintain performance bonds or insurance in the
aggregate amount of $105 million for ships operated by our brands which embark
guests in U.S. ports to cover guest ticket liabilities in the event of a
cancelled or interrupted cruise. We also maintain other performance bonds or
guarantees as required by various U.S. and foreign authorities that regulate
certain of our operations in their jurisdictions; the most significant of which
are required by Abta and the UK Civil Aviation Authority and total
approximately £81 million ($168 million U.S. dollars at November 30, 2007
exchange rate) and £52 million ($109 million U.S. dollars at the November 30,
2007 exchange rate), respectively, to cover our brands’ UK passenger and air ticket
deposit liabilities. 

          We
maintain standard property and casualty insurance policies to cover certain
shoreside assets and liabilities to third parties, including our tour business
and certain port facility assets, as well as appropriate workers’ compensation
and certain health insurance policies. 

          The
Athens Convention 

          Current
conventions generally in force applying to passenger ships are the Athens
Convention relating to the Carriage of Passengers and their Luggage by Sea
(1974), the 1976 Protocol to the Athens Convention and the Convention on
Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims (1976). The U.S. has not ratified
any Athens Convention Protocol. However, a vessel’s flag state or the port
state that has ratified it may enforce the 1976 Athens Convention Protocol with
regard to vessels registered under its flag or visiting a port located in its
jurisdiction. 

          The
IMO Diplomatic Conference agreed to a new protocol to the Athens Convention on
November 1, 2002. The new protocol, which has not yet been ratified by the U.S.
or any of our flag states, requires substantial levels of compulsory insurance
which must be maintained by passenger ship operators and provides a direct
action provision, which will allow claimants to proceed directly against
insurers. This new protocol requires passenger ship operators to maintain
insurance or some other form of financial security, such as a guarantee from a
bank, to cover the limits of liability under the Athens Convention with regards
to the death or personal injury of passengers. The timing of the ratification
of this new protocol is expected in 2009. We cannot be certain that affordable
and viable direct and reinsurance markets will be available to provide the
level of coverage required under the new protocol. If the new protocol is
ratified, we expect insurance costs will increase. 

          F.
Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

          We
own and have registered, or licensed, numerous trademarks and have also registered
various domain names, which we believe are widely recognized throughout the
world and have considerable value, which enables us to distinguish our cruise
product from that of our competitors. These trademarks include the names of our
cruise lines, each of which we believe is a widely-recognized brand name in the
cruise vacation industry, as well as “World’s Leading Cruise Lines.” We have a
license to use the P&O name, the P&O flag and other relevant trademarks
and domain names in relation to cruises and related activities. Finally, we
also have a license to use the “Love Boat”
name and related marks. See Note 2, “Trademarks” to our Consolidated Financial
Statements in Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. 

          G.
Taxation

          U.S.
Federal Income Tax 

          We
are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the business of operating
passenger vessels in international transportation. We also own and operate, among other
businesses, the hotel, transportation and tour businesses of Holland America
Tours and Princess Tours through U.S. corporations. 

          Our
passenger vessel business and the ship-owning subsidiaries are engaged in a
trade or business within the U.S. Depending on the itinerary for any particular
vessel, that vessel may generate income from sources within the U.S. We believe
that under Section 883 

24



of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable income tax
treaties, our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries, to the
extent derived from or incidental to the international
operation of a ship or ships, is currently exempt from U.S. federal income tax.
Regulations under Section 883 list items that the Internal Revenue Service
(“IRS”) does not consider to be incidental to ship operations. Among the items
identified as not incidental are income from the sale of air transportation,
shore excursions and pre-and post-cruise land packages to the extent earned
from sources within the U.S. 

          Our
domestic U.S. operations, principally the hotel, transportation and tour
businesses of Holland America Tours and Princess Tours, are subject to normal
state and federal income taxation in the U.S. 

                    Application
of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code

          In
general, under Section 883, certain non-U.S. corporations are not subject to
U.S. federal income tax or branch profits tax on U.S. source income derived
from, or incidental to, the international operation of a ship or ships.
Effective for our year ended November 30, 2005 and thereafter, regulations
provide, in general, that a foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits
of Section 883 if, in relevant part, (i) the foreign country in which the
foreign corporation is organized grants an equivalent exemption to corporations
organized in the U.S. and (ii) the foreign corporation meets the
publicly-traded test. In addition, to the extent a foreign corporation’s shares
are owned by a direct or indirect parent corporation which itself meets the
publicly-traded test, then such subsidiary will be deemed owned by individuals
resident in the country of incorporation of such parent corporation and the
subsidiary will satisfy the applicable stock ownership requirements in lieu of
the publicly-traded test. 

          We
believe that Panama is an equivalent exemption jurisdiction and Carnival
Corporation currently qualifies as a publicly traded corporation under the
regulations and substantially all of its income, with the exceptions noted
above under “U.S. Federal Income Tax,” will continue to be exempt from U.S.
federal income taxes. If, in the future, Panama no longer qualified as an
equivalent exemption jurisdiction or Carnival Corporation were to fail to
qualify as a publicly traded corporation, it and all of its ship-owning or
operating subsidiaries that rely on Section 883 for exempting cruise operations
income would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their U.S. source cruise
operation income. In such event, the net income of Carnival Corporation’s
ship-owning or operating subsidiaries would be materially reduced. 

          Although
the above represents our interpretation of this Internal Revenue Code provision
and the U.S. Treasury regulations, the IRS’s interpretation of these provisions
could differ materially. In addition, the provisions of Section 883 are subject
to change at any time by legislation. Moreover, changes could occur in the
future with respect to the trading volume or trading frequency of Carnival
Corporation shares or with respect to the identity, residence, or holdings of
Carnival Corporation’s direct or indirect shareholders that could affect
Carnival Corporation’s and its subsidiaries eligibility for the Section 883
exemption. Accordingly, although we believe it is unlikely, it is possible that
Carnival Corporation and its ship-owning or operating subsidiaries’ whose tax
exemption is based on Section 883 could lose this exemption. If Carnival
Corporation and/or its ship-owning or operating subsidiaries were not entitled
to the benefit of Section 883, Carnival Corporation and/or its ship-owning or
operating subsidiaries would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on a
portion of its income at higher than normal tax rates. 

                    Exemption
Under Applicable Income Tax Treaties 

          We
believe that the U.S. source shipping income from Carnival plc and its UK and
Italian resident subsidiaries currently qualify for exemption from U.S. federal
income tax under applicable bilateral U.S. income tax treaties. There is,
however, no authority that directly addresses the effect, if any, of DLC
arrangements on the availability of benefits under the treaties and,
consequently, the matter is not free from doubt. These treaties may be
abrogated by either applicable country, replaced or modified with new
agreements that treat shipping income differently than under the agreements
currently in force. If any of our subsidiaries that currently claim exemption
from U.S. income taxation on their U.S. source shipping income under an
applicable treaty do not qualify for benefits under the existing treaties, or
if the existing treaties are abrogated, replaced or materially modified in a
manner adverse to our interests and, with respect to U.S. federal income tax
only, if any such subsidiary does not qualify for exemption under Section 883,
such ship-owning or operating subsidiary may be subject to U.S. federal income
taxation on a portion of its income.

25






 


 




 


 Taxation
in the Absence of an Exemption under Section 883 or any Applicable U.S. Income
Tax Treaty 






          Shipping
income that is attributable to transportation of passengers which begins or
ends in the U.S. is considered to be 50% derived from U.S. sources. Shipping
income that is attributable to transportation of passengers which begins and
ends in foreign countries is considered 100% derived from foreign sources.
Shipping income that is attributable to the transportation of passengers which
begins and ends in the U.S. without stopping at an intermediate foreign port is
considered to be 100% derived from U.S. sources. 

          The
legislative history of the transportation income source rules suggests that a
cruise that begins and ends in a U.S. port, but that calls on more than one
foreign port, will derive U.S. source income only from the first and last legs
of the cruise. Because there are no regulations or other IRS interpretations of
these rules, the applicability of the transportation income source rules in the
aforesaid manner is not free from doubt. 

          In
the absence of an exemption under Section 883 or any applicable U.S. income tax
treaty, as appropriate, we and/or our subsidiaries would be subject to either
the net income and branch profits tax regimes of Section 882 and Section 884 of
the Internal Revenue Code (the “net tax regime”) or the four percent of gross
income tax regime of Section 887 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “four
percent tax regime”). 

          Where
the relevant foreign corporation has, or is considered to have, a fixed place
of business in the U.S. that is involved in the earning of U.S. source shipping
income and substantially all of this shipping income is attributable to
regularly scheduled transportation, the net tax regime is applicable. If the
foreign corporation does not have a fixed place of business in the U.S. or
substantially all of its income is not derived from regularly scheduled
transportation, the four percent tax regime will apply. 

          The
net tax regime should be the tax regime applied to Carnival Corporation in the
absence of an exemption under Section 883. Under the net tax regime, U.S.
source shipping income, net of applicable deductions, would be subject to a
federal corporate income tax of up to 35% and the net after-tax income would be
potentially subject to a further branch tax of 30%. In addition, interest paid
by the corporations, if any, would generally be subject to a branch interest
tax. 

          The
four percent tax regime should be the tax regime applicable to our vessel
owning subsidiaries based outside the U.S., in the absence of an exemption under
Section 883 or any applicable U.S. income tax treaty. Under the four percent
tax regime, gross U.S. source shipping income would be subject to a four
percent tax, without the benefit of deductions. 

          UK
Income Tax 

          Cunard,
Ocean Village, P&O Cruises and P&O Cruises Australia have all elected
to enter the UK tonnage tax regime. Companies to which the tonnage tax regime
applies pay corporation tax on profit calculated by reference to the net
tonnage of qualifying vessels. UK corporation tax is not chargeable under the
normal UK tax rules on these brands’ relevant shipping income. Relevant
shipping income includes income from the operation of qualifying ships and from
shipping related activities. It also includes dividends from foreign companies,
which are subject to a tax on profits in their country of residence or
elsewhere and the activities of which broadly would qualify in full for the UK
tonnage tax regime if they were UK resident. 

          For
a company to be eligible for the regime, it must be subject to UK corporation
tax and, among other matters, operate qualifying ships that are strategically
and commercially managed in the UK. There is also a seafarer training
requirement to which the UK tonnage tax companies are subject. 

          Our
UK non-shipping activities that do not qualify under the UK tonnage tax regime,
which are not currently forecast to be significant, remain subject to normal UK
corporation tax. 

          Italian
and German Income Tax 

          AIDA,
the German brand of Carnival plc, is a subsidiary of Costa. AIDA’s income is
subject to Italian income tax and the majority of its profits are exempt from
German corporation taxes by virtue of the Italy/Germany double tax treaty. 

26



          During
the 2005 third quarter, Costa elected to enter into the Italian Tonnage Tax
regime, effective for its 2005 fiscal year and for the following nine years.
This regime taxes Costa’s and AIDA’s shipping profits, as defined, which is
most of Costa’s and AIDA’s income, calculated by reference to the net tonnage
of its qualifying vessels. Most of the income not considered to be shipping
profits for Italian Tonnage Tax purposes will be taxed under the favorable
Italian tax regime for Costa and AIDA’s Italian-registered ships. 

          Australian
Income Tax 

          P&O
Cruises Australia is a division of Carnival plc, and the income from this
operation, is subject to UK tonnage tax as discussed above. The majority of
this operation’s profits are exempt from Australian corporation taxes by virtue
of the UK/Australian tax treaty. 

          U.S.
State Income Taxes 

          In
addition to the U.S. federal income and branch level taxes discussed above,
Carnival Corporation & plc and certain of its affiliates are subject to
various U.S. state income taxes generally imposed on each states portion of the
U.S. source income subject to U.S. federal income taxes.

          H.
Website Access to Carnival Corporation & plc SEC Reports

          Our
Form 10-K, joint Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, joint Current Reports on Form
8-K, joint proxy statement related to our annual stockholders meeting, Section
16 filings and all amendments to those reports are available, free of charge on
our home pages at www.carnivalcorp.com, www.carnivalplc.com and www.sec.gov as
soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed or furnished
these reports with the SEC. The content of any website referred to in this Form
10-K is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K unless expressly noted. 


Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

          You
should consider carefully the specific risk factors set forth below and other
information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, as these
are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to
differ from our expected or historical results. You should note that the risks
described below are not the only risks we face. The risks listed below are only
those risks relating to our operations that we consider material. There may be
additional risks, that we currently consider not to be material, or which we
are not currently aware of, that could have an adverse effect on our future
results. Some of the statements in this section and elsewhere in this Form 10-K
are “forward-looking statements.” For a discussion of those statements and of
other factors to consider see the “Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May
Affect Future Results” section below. 




 


 




•


 General economic and business conditions
  may adversely impact the levels of our potential vacationers’ discretionary
  income and this group’s confidence in the U.S. and other economies and,
  consequently, reduce our cruise brands’ net revenue yields and profitability.
  




          Demand
for cruises is dependent on the underlying perceived or actual economic strength of the countries
from which cruise companies source their guests. Adverse changes in the perceived or actual
economic climate, such as higher fuel prices, higher interest rates, more restrictive
credit markets and changes in governmental policies could reduce the
discretionary income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we
source our guests. Consequently this may negatively affect demand for
vacations, including cruise vacations, which are a discretionary purchase.
Decreases in demand could lead to price discounting which, in turn, could
reduce the profitability of our business. Decreases in discretionary income or
consumer confidence could also result in lower onboard revenues, which could also have a negative effect on
our profitability.




  


 




•


The
  international political climate and other world events affecting the safety
  and security of travel could adversely affect the demand for cruises and
  could harm our future sales and profitability. 




          Demand
for cruises and other vacation options has been, and is expected to continue to
be, affected by the public’s attitude towards the safety and security of
travel. Events such as the terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001
and the threats of additional attacks in the U.S. and elsewhere, concerns of an
outbreak of additional 

27



hostilities and national government travel advisories,
together with the resulting political instability and concerns over safety and
security aspects of traveling, have had a significant adverse impact on demand
and pricing in the travel and vacation industry in  the past, and
may have an adverse impact in the future. Decreases in demand could lead to
price discounting which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our
business. 




 


 




•


We may lose
  business to competitors throughout the vacation market. 




          We
face significant competition from other cruise lines, both on the basis of
cruise pricing and also in terms of the types of ships, services and
destinations being offered to cruise guests. We try to differentiate ourselves
from our cruise competitors by offering new itineraries, products and services
to our guests, but the acceptance of each offering is not certain and
consumers’ preferences are always subject to change. In addition, we may need
to enhance our older ships with current innovative amenities in order for those
ships to be more competitive with other cruise ships. Our principal competitors
include the companies listed in this Form 10-K under Part 1, Item 1. Business.
B. - “Cruise Operations – Competition.” 

          In
addition, we operate in the vacation market, and cruising is only one of many
alternatives for people choosing a vacation. We therefore risk losing business
not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators that
provide other travel and leisure options, including, but not limited to,
hotels, resorts, theme parks and land-based casino operators. 

          In
the event that we do not compete effectively with other cruise companies and
other vacation alternatives, our results of operations and financial condition
could be adversely affected. 




 


 




  •


Overcapacity
  in the cruise and land-based vacation industries could have a negative impact
  on our net revenue yields and increase operating costs, thus resulting in
  ship, goodwill and/or trademark asset impairments, all of which could
  adversely affect profitability. 




          Cruising
capacity has grown in recent years and we expect it to continue to increase
over the next five years as all of the major cruise vacation companies are
expected to introduce new ships. In order to fill new capacity, the cruise
vacation industry will probably need to increase its share of the overall
vacation market. The overall vacation market is also facing increases in
land-based vacation capacity, which also will impact us. Failure to increase
our share of the overall vacation market is one of a number of factors that
could have a negative impact on our net revenue yields. In some prior years,
our net revenue yields were negatively impacted as a result of a variety of
factors, including capacity increases. Should net revenue yields be negatively
impacted, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely
affected, including the impairment of the value of our ships, goodwill and/or
trademark assets. In addition, increased cruise capacity could impact our
ability to retain and attract qualified crew, including officers, at
competitive costs and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs.
Furthermore, some of the same factors that impact our guests’ decisions to
cruise with us may also impact our ability to employ qualified crew. 




 


 




  •


Accidents,
  adverse weather conditions or natural disasters and other incidents affecting
  the health, safety, security and/or vacation satisfaction of guests could
  have an adverse affect on our sales and profitability. 




          The
operation of cruise ships, hotels, land tours and shore excursions involve the
risk of accidents, including those caused by the improper operation of our
ships, motorcoaches and trains, guest and crew illnesses such as the spread of
contagious diseases, mechanical failures, fires, collisions, and other
incidents at sea or while in port or on land, which may bring into question
guest safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction, and thereby adversely
affect future industry performance, sales and profitability. 

          In
addition, our cruises, hotels, port facilities, shore excursions and other
service providers may be impacted by adverse weather patterns or natural
disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes. These events could result in,
among other things, increased port related and other costs as these third-party
operators seek to charge us additional amounts in order to recover expenses
caused by adverse events. For example, in 2005 Hurricane Wilma caused the
temporary closing of cruise ports in South Florida and also destroyed our pier
facility in Cozumel, Mexico, which is not expected to re-open until late-2008.
As a result of the closure of this port certain of our costs have increased. It
 

28




is possible that we could be forced to alter itineraries or cancel a cruise or
a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which would have an adverse
affect on sales and profitability.





 


 




•


Adverse
  publicity concerning the cruise industry in general, or us in particular,
  could impact the demand for cruises and affect our reputation and harm our
  future sales and profitability. 




          Maintaining
a good reputation is critical to our business. Reports, whether true or not, of
ship accidents and other incidents at sea or while in port, including missing
guests, inappropriate crew or guest behavior, onboard crimes, guest or crew
illnesses such as incidents of stomach flu or other contagious diseases,
security breaches, terrorist threats and attacks and other adverse events can
result in negative publicity, and the perception that cruising is more
dangerous than other vacation alternatives. Anything that damages our
reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about the
safety and guest satisfaction of cruising, or the vacation industry in general,
could have an adverse affect impact on demand, which could lead to price
discounting and a reduction in our net income. 




 


 




•


Environmental
  legislation and regulations could affect operations and increase our
  operating costs. 




          Some
environmental groups have lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise
ships. Some groups have also generated negative publicity about the cruise
industry and its environmental impact. The U.S. Congress, the IMO and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) periodically consider new laws and
regulations to manage cruise ship discharges. In addition, various other
regulatory agencies in the States of Alaska, California, Florida, Hawaii,
Maine, Washington and elsewhere, including European regulatory organizations,
have enacted or are considering new regulations or policies, such as stricter
emission limits to reduce greenhouse gas effects and requirements to use low sulfur fuels, which could adversely
impact the cruise industry. See Part I, Item 1. Business. B. - “Cruise Operations – Governmental Regulations” for additional
information. 

          Initiatives
to limit greenhouse gas emissions have been introduced or are being considered
in several European countries. Similarly, as of January 2008, a number of
climate change bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress, which impact
all industries. While not all are likely to become law, this is a strong
indication that additional climate change related mandates will be forthcoming
in the future. In addition, the EPA has been ordered by the U.S. District Court
of Northern California to rescind its long standing National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit exemption for ship discharges that are incidental to
the normal operation of a ship. As a result, the EPA has begun an
administrative process to prepare regulations of such discharges as of
September 30, 2008.  These and other unforeseen
regulatory developments have the potential to affect our operations and
increase our environmental compliance costs. 

          Current
and future environmental laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past
or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or to vessel
discharges, could increase our cost of compliance or otherwise materially
adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial
condition. 




 


 




  •


New
  regulations relating to health, safety, security and other regulatory issues could
  increase our operating costs or negatively affect our bookings and future net
  revenue yields and adversely affect net income. 




          We
are subject to various international, national, state and local health, safety
and security laws, regulations and treaties. Due to increasing regulatory
requirements applicable to our operations, appropriate training of crewmembers has
become more time-consuming and increased our operating costs.  See Part I, Item 1.
Business. B. - “Cruise Operations-Governmental Regulations” for a detailed
discussion of some of these regulatory issues. 

          We
believe that health, safety, security and other regulatory issues will continue
to be areas of focus by relevant government authorities in the U.S., Europe and
elsewhere. Resulting legislation, regulations or treaties, or changes thereto,
could impact our operations and would likely subject us to increased compliance
costs in the future. 

          Pursuant
to the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, by the earlier of June 1, 2009 or
90 days after the sanctioning of a People Access Security Service (“PASS”)
card, U.S. citizens will be required to carry a passport or, if available, a
PASS card, for travel by 

29





land or sea to or from certain countries/areas that
are currently exempt from passport requirements, such as the Caribbean, Canada
and Mexico. The State Department and the Department of
Homeland Security are collaborating on the development of a PASS card system.
The PASS card is a secure credential that verifies the citizenship and identity
of U.S. nationals who re-enter the U.S. and is seen as a less expensive
alternative to a passport. 

          Since
many of our cruise guests visiting these destinations may not currently have
passports or may not obtain a PASS card if and when available, it is likely
that this will have some negative effect on our bookings and future net revenue
yields when the regulations take effect. There are a number of factors that
could influence the ultimate impact of these regulations, such as customer
travel patterns, the cost and ease of obtaining PASS cards or passports,
customer price sensitivity and the cost and effectiveness of mitigating
programs we and/or others have established or will establish. 




 


 




  •


We are subject
  to many economic and political factors, including changes in and compliance
  with numerous rules and regulations that are beyond our control, which could
  result in increases in our operating, financing and tax costs and could harm
  future sales and profitability. 




          Some
of our operating costs, including fuel, food, insurance, payroll and security
costs, are subject to increases because of market forces, economic or political
instability or decisions beyond our control. In addition, interest rates,
currency fluctuations and our ability to obtain debt or equity financing are
dependent on many economic and political factors. Actions by taxing
jurisdictions could also cause an increase in our costs. 

          For
example, in 2007, 2006 and 2005 fuel costs accounted for 14.9%, 14.4% and
11.9%, respectively, of our total cruise operating expenses. Economic and
political conditions in certain parts of the world make it difficult to predict
the price of fuel in the future. We have taken actions to partially offset the
effects of higher fuel costs through the addition of temporary fuel supplement fees by
most of our brands and fuel conservation initiatives. However, the Office of the Attorney
General for the State of Florida is conducting a review of the fuel supplement program implemented by
our North American brands and other cruise operators. We believe that our fuel supplement complies with applicable laws
and we are cooperating with the review.

Success in trying to
offset higher fuel costs with ticket price increases and fuel supplements is
largely influenced by competitive factors and economic conditions and can vary
significantly depending on the market served. Future increases in the cost of
fuel globally would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations, and we
may be unable to implement additional fuel conservation practices, or ticket
price and/or fuel supplement increases, which would otherwise help offset these
fuel cost increases. 

          In
addition, the State of Alaska instituted  new taxes in 2007, which has impacted
the cruise industry operating in Alaska. Separately  in January 2008, the UK
published draft changes to its tonnage tax regime which would change effective
April 1, 2008, the scope of income that is includable within the UK tonnage tax
regime. If such changes were adopted in their present form our brands subject
to the UK tonnage tax regime will incur a higher level of UK income taxes. It
is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that we regularly
visit may also decide to assess new taxes or fees or change existing taxes or
fees specifically targeted to the cruise industry and its employees and/or
guests, including VAT taxes on cruise tickets and onboard revenues, which could
increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises and
ultimately decrease our net revenue yields and net income. 

          The
U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) has proposed an interpretive rule to
the Passenger Vessel Services Act (“PVSA”), which could require that all
roundtrip U.S. cruises by foreign flag vessels spend at least 48 hours in each
foreign port on the cruise and require that the time spent in foreign ports
must be more than 50% of the time spent in all U.S. ports on the cruise. We believe the
CBP issued the proposed rule to protect NCL America operations in Hawaii.
However, if implemented as written, the proposed rule could also impact other
non-Hawaii itineraries such as Seattle-based Alaska and some Caribbean cruises,
which may no longer qualify under the PVSA. Accordingly this proposed rule could adversely
affect our Hawaii and  non-Hawaii cruises’ profitability. 

          Increases
in operating, financing and tax costs could adversely affect our results
because we may not be able to recover these increased costs through price
increases charged to our guests. 




 


 




  •


Delays in
  ship construction and repairs, problems encountered at shipyards and shipyard consolidation could reduce our profitability.





          The
construction and repair of cruise ships is a complex process and involves risks
similar to those encountered in other large and sophisticated construction and
repair projects, which could cause delays in completion, delivery or repair. In
addition, work 

30



stoppages, insolvency or financial problems of the shipyards
building or repairing our ships could also delay or prevent the delivery of our
ships under construction or the repair and
maintenance of existing ships in our fleet. These events could adversely affect
our profitability. However, the impact from a delay in delivery of our newbuilds
could be partially mitigated by contractual provisions and guarantees obtained
by us. In addition, the consolidation of the control of certain European cruise
shipyards could result in higher prices for future ships given the reduced
number of competing shipyards, which could also reduce our profitability. Also,
the lack of qualified shipyard repair facilities could result in the inability
to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis and also result in reduced
profitability. 

          As
of November 30, 2007, we had entered into foreign currency swaps to fix the
cost in Sterling and U.S. dollars of one of our Euro-denominated shipbuilding
contracts and a portion of another shipbuilding contract. If the shipyard with
which we have contracted is unable to perform under the related contracts, the
foreign currency swaps related to the shipyard’s shipbuilding contracts would
still have to be honored. This might require us to realize a loss on existing
foreign currency swaps without an offsetting gain on
our foreign currency denominated shipbuilding contracts, thus resulting in an
adverse effect on our financial results. As all of our newbuilds are being
built by European shipyards and substantially all our newbuilds are priced in
Euros, the ability to purchase ships for our North American brands at favorable
U.S. dollar prices has been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a
result of the weaker U.S. dollar compared to the Euro. This can result in
higher newbuild costs and reduced profitability for our North American brands. 




 


 




  •


Our success
  depends upon the continued strength of our cruise brands and our ability to
  implement our brand strategies. 




          We
believe that our cruise brands have contributed significantly to the success of
our business and that maintaining and enhancing our brands is critical to
expanding their customer base. In addition, the ability of our brands to
successfully target different segments of the various vacation markets in which
they operate enables them to continue to expand and strengthen their business.
Failure to protect our brands from infringers or to grow the value of the
brands could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
operations. 




 


 




 •


Our
  international operations are subject to risks not generally applicable to our
  domestic operations. 




          Our
international operations are subject to numerous risks, including exposure to
local economic conditions, potential adverse changes in the diplomatic
relations between foreign countries, hostility from local populations,
restrictions and taxes on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings,
government policies against the cruise business, investment restrictions or
requirements, diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in
foreign countries, foreign exchange restrictions and fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates, withholding and other taxes on remittances and other
payments by subsidiaries, and changes in and application of foreign taxation
structures including value added taxes. 




 


 




  •


Our future
  operating cash flow may not be sufficient to fund future obligations, and we
  may not be able to obtain financing, if necessary, on terms that are
  favorable or consistent with our expectations. 




          Our
forecasted cash flow from future operations may be adversely affected by
various factors including, but not limited to, declines in guest demand,
increased competition, overcapacity, the deterioration in general economic and
business conditions, including the recent liquidity issues in the U.S. debt
markets, terrorist attacks and the threats thereof, ship accidents and other
incidents, adverse publicity and increases in fuel prices, as well as other
factors noted under these “Risk Factors” and under the “Cautionary Note
Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results” section below. To the extent
that we are required, or choose, to fund future cash requirements, including
future shipbuilding commitments, from sources other than cash flow from
operations, cash on hand and current external sources of liquidity, including
committed financings, we will have to secure such financing from banks or
through the offering of debt and/or equity securities in the public or private
markets. 

          Our
access to, and the cost of, financing will depend on, among other things, the
maintenance of our strong long-term credit ratings. Carnival Corporation and
Carnival plc’s senior, unsecured long-term debt ratings are “A-3” by Moody’s,
“A-” by Standard & Poor’s and “A-” by Fitch Ratings. Carnival Corporation’s
short-term corporate credit ratings are “P-2” by Moody’s, “A-2” by Standard
& Poor’s and “F2” by Fitch Ratings. 

31






 


 




  •


Geographic
  regions in which we try to expand our business may be slow to develop, and
  ultimately not develop how we expect, thus resulting in the slower growth of
  our business. 




          As
we expand our global presence into both existing lower-penetrated markets and new developing markets, which
require, among other things, investments and  start-up costs that we may not be able to
recover through future revenues from these markets. In addition, we cannot
be certain that these markets will ultimately develop as we expect.
Accordingly, our business expansion plans may not produce the returns that we
had expected. For instance, in 2006 we entered the Chinese market, and it is
too early to determine if it will develop as expected over the long-term. 




 


 




  •


We rely on
  external sales distribution channels for most of our guests’ bookings and,
  therefore, major changes in the costs or availability of external
  distribution channels could result in a reduction in our sales revenues and
  net income. 




          In
2007, the vast majority of our guests booked their cruises through independent
travel agents, wholesalers and tour operators. These parties generally sell and
market our cruises on a nonexclusive basis. Although we offer commission and
other incentives to them for booking our cruises that are comparable to those
offered by others in the cruise industry, there can be no guarantee that our
competitors will not offer higher commissions and incentives in the future. In
addition, significant disruptions or contractions to these businesses could
have an adverse effect on our sales and related commission costs. 




 


 




  •


We rely to a
  large extent on scheduled commercial airline services for guest connections
  and, therefore, increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in
  commercial airline services, could undermine our ability to provide
  reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. 




          Some
of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them
to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. Increases in the
price of airfare would increase the overall vacation price to our guests and
may adversely affect demand for our cruises. In addition, changes in commercial
airline services as a result of strikes, adverse weather conditions or other
events, or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of
airline bookings could adversely affect our ability to deliver guests to or
from our cruise ships and increase our cost of sales which would, in turn, have
an adverse effect on our results of operations. 




 


 




  •


The impact
  of self-insuring against various risks or the inability to obtain insurance
  for certain risks at reasonable rates could result in higher expenses. 




          We
seek to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates.
We believe that our current coverage is adequate to protect us against most of
the significant risks involved in the conduct of our business, although we do
elect to self-insure or use higher deductibles for various risks to minimize
the cost of our insurance coverage. Accordingly, we are not protected against
all risks, which could result in unexpected increases in our expenses in the
event of an incident. 

          In
addition, a new protocol to the Athens Convention is in the process of being
ratified, which would require some passenger ship operations to maintain
compulsory insurance or some other form of financial security, to cover the per
capita limit of strict liability for losses suffered by passengers  that has been set under the Athens Convention.
If the protocol is ratified, we cannot be certain that affordable and viable
insurance markets will be available to provide the required coverages. If the
new protocol is ratified we would expect our insurance costs to increase.

          We
may also be subject to additional premium costs, in amounts based not only on
our own claim records, but also on the claim records of all other members of
the P&I associations through which we receive indemnity coverage for tort
liability. If we, or other members of our P&I associations, were to sustain
significant losses in the future, our ability to obtain insurance coverage or
coverage at commercially reasonable rates could be materially adversely
affected. Finally, if other marine insurers experience more claims, this could
result in additional premium costs for us. 




 


 




 •


Disruptions
  and other impairments to our information technology networks could result in
  decreases in our net income. 






32



          Our
ability to increase revenues and decrease costs, as well as our ability to
serve guests most
effectively, depends in part on the reliability of our sophisticated
information technology (“IT”) networks. We use software and other IT systems
to, among other things, manage our inventory of cabins held for sale and set
their pricing in order to maximize our revenue yields, and to optimize the
effectiveness and efficiency of our shoreside and shipboard operations. Any
disruptions and other impairments to these computer systems or unauthorized
access to confidential customer or employee personal information could
adversely impact our customer service and satisfaction, employee relationships,
decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs. In addition,
the operation, maintenance and updating of these networks is dependent on third-party
technologies, systems and services for which there is no certainty of
uninterrupted availability. While we have invested and continue to invest in IT
security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot
insulate us from IT disruptions that could result in adverse effects on our
operations and net income. 




 


 




  •


The lack of
  continued availability of attractive port destinations for our cruise ships
  could reduce our net revenue yields and net income. 




          We
believe that attractive and safe port destinations, including ports that are
not overly congested with tourists, are major reasons why our guests choose a
cruise versus an alternative vacation option. The availability of ports,
including the specific port facility at which our guests will embark and
disembark, is affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to,
existing capacity constraints, security and safety concerns, adverse weather
conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development,
political instability, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our
competitors, local governmental regulations and charges and local community
concerns about both port development and other adverse impacts on their
communities from additional tourists. The inability to continue to maintain,
rebuild, if necessary, and increase our ports of call could adversely affect
our net revenue yields and net income. 




 


 




  •


The DLC
  structure involves risks not associated with the more common ways of
  combining the operations of two companies, and these risks may have an
  adverse effect on the economic performance of the companies and/or their
  respective share prices. 




          The
DLC structure is a relatively uncommon way of combining the management and
operations of two companies and it involves different issues and risks from
those associated with the other more common ways of effecting a business
combination, such as a merger or exchange offer to create a wholly owned
subsidiary. In our DLC structure, the combination is effected primarily by
means of contracts between Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc and not by
operation of a statute or court order. The legal effect of these contractual
rights may be different from the legal effect of a merger or amalgamation under
statute or court order, and there may be difficulties in enforcing these
contractual rights. Shareholders and creditors of either company might challenge
the validity of the contracts or their lack of standing to enforce rights under
these contracts, and courts may interpret or enforce these contracts in a
manner inconsistent with the express provisions and intentions we included in
such contracts. In addition, shareholders and creditors of other companies
might successfully challenge other DLC structures and establish legal
precedents that could increase the risk of a successful challenge to our DLC
structure. We maintain two separate public companies and comply with both
Panamanian corporate law and English company laws and different securities and
other regulatory and stock exchange requirements in the UK and the U.S. This
structure requires more administrative time and cost than was the case for each
company individually, which has an adverse effect on our operating efficiency. 




 


 




  •


Changes
  under the Internal Revenue Code, applicable U.S. income tax treaties, and the
  uncertainty of the DLC structure under the Internal Revenue Code may
  adversely affect the U.S. federal income taxation of our U.S. source shipping
  income. In addition, changes in the UK, Italian, German, Australian and other
  countries’ or states’ income or other tax laws, regulations or treaties could
  also adversely affect our net income. 




          We
believe that substantially all of the U.S. source shipping income of each of
Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc qualifies for exemption from U.S. federal
income tax, either under (1) Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code; (2)
U.S.-Italian income tax treaty; or (3) other applicable U.S. income tax
treaties, and should continue to so qualify under the DLC structure. There is,
however, no existing U.S. federal income tax authority that directly addresses
the tax consequences of implementation of a DLC structure for purposes of
Section 883 or any other provision of the Internal Revenue Code or any income
tax treaty and, consequently, these matters are not free from doubt. 

33



          If
we did not qualify for exemption from substantially all U.S. federal income
taxes or if such exemptions or laws were changed, we would have significantly
higher U.S. income tax expenses. In addition, changes in the income or other
tax laws affecting our cruise businesses in the UK, Italy, Germany, Australia
and elsewhere could result in higher income and/or other taxes, such as value
added taxes, being levied on our cruise operations, thus resulting in lower net
income. 

          
See Part I, Item 1. Business. G. - “Taxation” for additional information. 




 


 




  •


A small
  group of shareholders collectively owned, as of January 22, 2008,
  approximately 29% of the total combined voting power of our outstanding
  shares and may be able to effectively control the outcome of shareholder
  voting. 




          A
group of shareholders, consisting of some members of the Arison family,
including Micky Arison, and trusts established for their benefit, beneficially
owned approximately 36% of the outstanding common stock of Carnival
Corporation, which shares represent sufficient shares entitled to constitute a
quorum at shareholder meetings and to cast approximately 29% of the total
combined voting power of Carnival Corporation & plc. Depending upon the
nature and extent of the shareholder vote, this group of shareholders may have
the power to effectively control, or at least to influence substantially, the
outcome of certain shareholder votes and, therefore, the corporate actions
requiring such votes. 




 


 




•


Carnival
  Corporation and Carnival plc are not U.S. corporations, and our shareholders
  may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting
  their interests. 




          Carnival
Corporation’s corporate affairs are governed by its third amended and restated
articles of incorporation (“Articles”) and second amended and restated by-laws
(“by-laws”) and by the corporate laws of Panama. Carnival plc is governed by
its articles of association and memorandum of association and by the corporate
laws of England and Wales. The contracts that control the relationship between
Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc under the DLC are governed by the laws of
Panama, the Isle of Man and the Cayman Islands. The corporate laws of Panama,
England and Wales, the Isle of Man and the Cayman Islands may differ in some
respects from the corporate laws in the U.S. 




 


 




  •


Provisions
  in Carnival Corporation’s and Carnival plc’s constitutional documents may
  prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that our
  shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. 




          Carnival
Corporation’s Articles and by-laws and Carnival plc’s articles of association
contain provisions that may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a
takeover attempt that our shareholders consider to be in their best interests.
As a result, these provisions may prevent our shareholders from receiving a
premium to the market price of our shares offered by a bidder in a takeover
context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these
provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our shares if
they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 

          
Specifically, Carnival Corporation’s Articles contain provisions that prevent
third parties, other than the Arison family and trusts established for their
benefit, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of its
outstanding shares without the consent of Carnival Corporation’s board of
directors and provide for the lapse of rights, and sale, of any shares acquired
in excess of that limit. The effect of these provisions may preclude third
parties from seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us in transactions
that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may prevent
them from receiving a premium above market price for their shares. 

          Cautionary
Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results 

          Some
of the statements contained in this Form 10-K are “forward-looking statements”
that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to us, including
some statements concerning future results, outlook, plans, goals and other
events which have not yet occurred. These statements are intended to qualify
for the safe harbors from liability provided by Section 27A of the Securities
Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have
tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements by using words like “will,” “may,” “believes,”
“expect,” “anticipate,” “forecast,” “future,” “intends,” “plan,” and “estimate” and
similar expressions.



34


          Because
forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are many factors that
could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ
materially from those expressed or implied in this Form 10-K. Forward-looking
statements include those statements which may impact the forecasting of our
earnings per share, net revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy,
operating, financing and/or tax costs, fuel costs, costs per available lower
berth day, estimates of ship depreciable lives and residual values, outlook or
business prospects. 

          Certain
of the risks we are exposed to are identified in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations— Cautionary Note
Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results” in Exhibit 13 to this Form
10-K and in this Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” These sections contain important
cautionary statements and a discussion of many of the factors that could
materially affect the accuracy of our forward-looking statements and/or
adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. 

          Forward-looking
statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Subject
to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant listing
rules, we expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of
this Form 10-K, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements
to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on
which any such statements are based. 

Item 1B