ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

ALTHOUGH WE ARE CURRENTLY PROFITABLE, WE HAVE A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND
AN ACCUMULATED DEFICIT.

For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we posted net income of
$63.7 million, $52.8 million and $25.7 million, respectively. Prior to 2003, we
had sustained losses in each year since our incorporation in 1986. In addition,
we had an accumulated deficit of $170.8 million at December 31, 2005 compared
with $234.4 million at December 31, 2004. We expect to make substantial
expenditures to further develop and commercialize our products. We also expect
that our rate of spending will accelerate as the result of increased clinical
trial costs and expenses associated with regulatory approval and
commercialization of products now in development and products discovered,
licensed or acquired by us in the future.

WE MAY EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS.

We have historically experienced, and expect to continue for the foreseeable
future to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating
results. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are
outside our control, and may result in volatility of our stock price. Future
operating results will depend on many factors, including:

     o    demand for our products;

     o    regulatory approvals for our products;

     o    the timing and level of research and development and sales and
          marketing, including product launch costs;

                                       17


     o    the timing and level of reimbursement from third-party payors for our
          products;

     o    the timing of the introduction and market acceptance of new products
          by us or competing companies;

     o    the development or expansion of business infrastructure in new
          clinical and geographic markets;

     o    the acquisition of new products and companies;

     o    tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate;

     o    the timing and recognition of certain research and development
          milestones and license fees; and

     o    our ability to control our costs.

IF WE ARE UNSUCCESSFUL IN DEVELOPING AND COMMERCIALIZING OUR PRODUCTS, OUR
BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY
ADVERSELY AFFECTED WHICH COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE VALUE OF OUR
SECURITIES.

Many of our products and processes are in the early or mid-stages of research
and development and will require the commitment of substantial financial
resources, extensive research, development, preclinical testing, clinical
trials, manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval prior to being ready for
sale. With the exception of REVLIMID(R), THALOMID(R), ALKERAN(R), FOCALIN(TM)
and FOCALIN XR(TM) (the extended release version), all of our other product
candidates will require further development, clinical testing and regulatory
approvals before initial commercial marketing in the United States and
internationally. Moreover, REVLIMID(R) requires further preclinical and clinical
testing as a condition of approval and all of our commercially available
products will require further development, clinical testing and regulatory
approvals as we seek approvals in new indications and geographic markets. If it
becomes too expensive to sustain our present commitment of resources on a
long-term basis, we will be unable to continue certain necessary research and
development activities. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our clinical
testing will render satisfactory results, or that we will receive required
regulatory approvals for our new products or new indications. If any of our
products, even if developed and approved, cannot be successfully commercialized,
our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be
materially adversely affected which could have a negative impact on the value of
our common stock or debt securities obligations.

DURING THE NEXT SEVERAL YEARS, WE WILL BE VERY DEPENDENT ON THE COMMERCIAL
SUCCESS OF REVLIMID(R), THALOMID(R), ALKERAN(R), FOCALIN(TM), AND FOCALIN
XR(TM).

At our present and anticipated level of operations, we may not be able to
maintain profitability without continued growth in our revenues. The growth of
our business during the next several years will be largely dependent on the
commercial success of REVLIMID(R) and our other products. REVLIMID(R) was
approved by the FDA on December 27, 2005 for the treatment of certain
myelodysplastic syndromes, or MDS, associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic
abnormality. REVLIMID(R) will be distributed through contracted pharmacies under
the RevAssist(sm) program, which is a proprietary risk-management distribution
program tailored specifically to help ensure the safe use of REVLIMID(R). We do
not have long-term data on the use of the product and cannot predict whether
REVLIMID(R) will gain widespread acceptance, which will mostly depend on the
acceptance of regulators, physicians, patients and other key opinion leaders as
a relatively safe and effective drug that has certain advantages as compared to
existing

                                       18


or future therapies. In addition, some of our products compete with one another
as therapies designed to treat cancer. For example, market acceptance of
REVLIMID(R) may result to the detriment of THALOMID(R) and ALKERAN(R). We are
also seeking to market REVLIMID(R) in Europe as well as for other indications in
the United States. A delay in gaining the requisite regulatory approvals could
negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our common stock or debt
securities obligations.

THALOMID(R) is currently approved as a therapy for the treatment of ENL.
However, the market for the use of THALOMID(R) in patients suffering from ENL is
relatively small and we are dependent on revenues generated from its off-label
use in treating multiple myeloma and other forms of cancer. We have filed an
sNDA with the FDA seeking to market THALOMID(R) as a treatment in multiple
myeloma and are awaiting FDA action. If THALOMID(R) does not receive market
approval, its off-label use in treating multiple myeloma and other forms of
cancer may diminish over time. In addition, if adverse experiences are reported
in connection with the use of THALOMID(R) by patients, this could undermine
physician and patient comfort with the product, could limit the commercial
success of the product and could even impact the acceptance of our other
products, including REVLIMID(R). Also, we are dependent upon sales of
ALKERAN(R), which we license from GSK, and royalties based on Novartis' sales of
FOCALIN XR(TM), which we cannot directly impact.

Our revenues and profits would be negatively impacted if generic versions of any
of these products were to be approved and launched.

WE FACE THE RISK OF PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS.

We may be subject to a variety of product liability or other claims based on
allegations that the use of our technology or products has resulted in adverse
effects, whether by participants in our clinical trials, by patients using our
products or by other persons exposed to our products. Thalidomide, when used by
pregnant women, has resulted in serious birth defects. Therefore, necessary and
strict precautions must be taken by physicians prescribing the drug and
pharmacies dispensing the drug to women with childbearing potential. These
precautions may not be observed in all cases or, if observed, may not be
effective. Use of thalidomide has also been associated, in a limited number of
cases, with other side effects, including nerve damage. Although we have product
liability insurance that we believe is sufficient, we may be unable to maintain
existing coverage or obtain additional coverage on commercially reasonable terms
if required, or our coverage may be inadequate to protect us in the event of a
multitude of claims being asserted against us. Our obligation to defend against
or pay any product liability or other claim may be expensive and divert the
efforts of our management and technical personnel.

IF OUR PRODUCTS ARE NOT ACCEPTED BY THE MARKET, DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS WILL
DETERIORATE OR NOT MATERIALIZE AT ALL.

It is necessary that our and our distribution partners' products, including
REVLIMID(R), THALOMID(R), ALKERAN(R), FOCALIN(TM) and FOCALIN XR(TM), and the
RITALIN(R) family of drugs achieve and maintain market acceptance. A number of
factors can render the degree of market acceptance of our products uncertain,
including the products' efficacy, safety and advantages, if any, over competing
products, as well as the reimbursement policies of third-party payors, such as
government and private insurance plans. In particular, thalidomide, when used by
pregnant women, has resulted in serious birth defects, and the negative history
associated with thalidomide and birth defects may decrease the market acceptance
of THALOMID(R). In addition, the products that we are attempting to develop
through our Celgene Cellular Therapeutics subsidiary may represent substantial
departures from established treatment methods and will compete with a number of
traditional drugs and therapies which are now, or may be in the future,
manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical
companies. Furthermore, public attitudes may be influenced by claims that stem
cell therapy is unsafe, and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the
public

                                       19


or the medical community. If our products are not accepted by the market, demand
for our products will deteriorate or not materialize at all.

WE HAVE NO COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING FACILITIES AND IF THE THIRD-PARTY
MANUFACTURERS UPON WHOM WE RELY FAIL TO PRODUCE ON A TIMELY BASIS THE RAW
MATERIALS OR FINISHED PRODUCTS IN THE VOLUMES THAT WE REQUIRE OR FAIL TO MEET
QUALITY STANDARDS AND MAINTAIN NECESSARY LICENSURE FROM REGULATORY AUTHORITIES,
WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MEET DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS, POTENTIALLY RESULTING IN LOST
REVENUES.

We do not currently manufacture any of our products on a commercial scale and
have contracted with third-party manufacturers to supply the raw materials and
finished products to meet our needs. Although a site has been purchased in
Neuchatel, Switzerland, and we are constructing a drug product manufacturing
facility, we cannot utilize this facility to manufacture our marketed products
until we obtain necessary FDA clearance. Additionally, we intend to continue to
utilize outside manufacturers as needed to produce certain of our products on a
commercial scale.

The active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, for THALOMID(R) is manufactured by
Eagle Picher Pharmaceutical Services, a Division of Eagle-Picher Incorporated,
which has filed to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. We
currently have adequate supplies of API for THALOMID(R) on hand to support our
projected long-term requirements and do not believe that the Eagle-Picher
Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing will result in any supply disruptions for the
foreseeable future. In addition, a second supplier is currently being qualified.
We rely on two drug product manufacturers, Penn Pharmaceuticals Services Limited
and Institute of Drug Technology Australia Limited for the formulation and
encapsulation of the finished dosage form of THALOMID(R) capsules, and on one
contract packager, Sharp Corporation, for the packaging of the final product.

The API for FOCALIN(TM) is currently obtained from two suppliers, Johnson
Matthey Inc. and Seigfried USA, Inc., and we rely on a single manufacturer,
Mikart, Inc., for the tableting and packaging of FOCALIN(TM) finished product.
We obtain the API for FOCALIN XR(TM) from Johnson Matthey Inc., on behalf of
Novartis for the manufacture of FOCALIN XR(TM) finished product.

We have entered into an agreement with Evotec OAI Limited for the supply of
REVLIMID(R) API, and have contracted with OSG Norwich Pharmaceuticals and Penn
Pharmaceuticals Services Limited for the manufacture of REVLIMID(R) finished
product.

In all the countries where we sell our products, governmental regulations exist
to define standards for manufacturing, packaging and labeling and storing. All
of our suppliers of raw materials and contract manufacturers must comply with
these regulations. Failure to do so could result in supply interruptions. In the
United States, the FDA requires that all suppliers of pharmaceutical bulk
material and all manufacturers of pharmaceuticals for sale in or from the United
States achieve and maintain compliance with the FDA's current Good Manufacturing
Practices (cGMP) regulations and guidelines. Failure of our third-party
manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions
being imposed on them or us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties,
disgorgement, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation,
seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal
prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of
our products. In addition, before any product batch produced by our
manufacturers can be shipped, it must conform to release specifications
pre-approved by regulators for the content of the pharmaceutical product. If the
operations of one or more of our manufacturers were to become unavailable for
any reason, any required FDA review and approval of the operations of an
alternative supplier could cause a delay in the manufacture of our products. If
our outside manufacturers do not meet our requirements for quality, quantity or
timeliness, or do not achieve and maintain compliance with all applicable
regulations, demand for our products or our ability to continue supplying such
products could substantially decline.

                                       20


WE HAVE LIMITED MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION CAPABILITIES.

Although we have a 234-person (including CCT) U.S. pharmaceutical commercial
organization to support our products, we may be required to seek one or more
corporate partners to provide marketing services with respect to certain of our
products. Any delay in securing these resources could substantially delay or
curtail the marketing of these products. We have contracted with Ivers Lee
Corporation, d/b/a Sharp, a specialty distributor, to distribute THALOMID(R) and
REVLIMID(R). If Sharp does not perform its obligations, our ability to
distribute THALOMID(R) and REVLIMID(R) may be severely restricted.

WE RECEIVE SIGNIFICANT REVENUES FROM COLLABORATIONS AND MAY BE DEPENDENT ON
COLLABORATIONS AND LICENSES WITH THIRD PARTIES.

Our ability to fully commercialize our preclinical and clinical-stage pipeline,
if developed, may depend to some extent upon our entering into collaborations
with other pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies with the requisite
experience and financial and other resources to obtain regulatory approvals and
to manufacture and market such products. Our collaborations and licenses include
an exclusive license (excluding Canada) to Novartis for the development and
commercialization of FOCALIN(TM) and FOCALIN XR(TM); an agreement with Pharmion
Corporation to expand the THALOMID(R) franchise internationally; and an
agreement with GSK enabling us to distribute, promote and sell ALKERAN(R). Our
present and future arrangements may be jeopardized if any or all of the
following occur:

     o    we are not able to enter into additional joint ventures or other
          arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all;

     o    our joint ventures or other arrangements do not result in a compatible
          working relationship;

     o    our partners change their business priorities, fail to perform as
          agreed upon or experience financial difficulties that disrupt
          necessary business operations;

     o    our joint ventures or other arrangements do not lead to the successful
          development and commercialization of any products;

     o    we are unable to obtain or maintain proprietary rights or licenses to
          technology or products developed in connection with our joint ventures
          or other arrangements; or

     o    we are unable to preserve the confidentiality of any proprietary
          rights or information developed in connection with our joint ventures
          or other arrangements.

WE MAY CONTINUE TO MAKE STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS OF OTHER COMPANIES BUSINESSES OR
PRODUCTS AND THESE ACQUISITIONS INTRODUCE SIGNIFICANT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES,
INCLUDING RISKS RELATED TO INTEGRATING THE ACQUIRED BUSINESSES AND PRODUCTS AND
TO ACHIEVING BENEFITS FROM THE ACQUISITIONS.

To take advantage of external growth opportunities, we have made, and may
continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and
uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the difficulty in
integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and
effective manner; (2) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost
savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (3) the risk that the technologies
acquired do not evolve as anticipated; (4) contracts, agreements, assets and
liabilities are not as represented; (5) the potential loss of key employees of
the acquired businesses; (6) the risk of diverting the attention of senior
management from our other operations; (7) the risks of

                                       21


entering new markets in which we have limited experience; (8) difficulties in
expanding information technology systems and other business processes to
accommodate the acquired businesses; (9) future impairments of goodwill and
other intangibles of an acquired business; and, (10) the impact that possible
in-process research and development charges may have on future earnings.

Many acquisition candidates in the biopharmaceuticals industry carry high price
to earnings valuations. As a result, acquiring a business that has a high
valuation may be dilutive to our earnings, especially when the acquired business
has little or no revenue.

Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in connection
with a transaction in the form of change-in-control agreements, acceleration of
stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity-based compensation
rights. To retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we may
offer additional, sometimes costly, retention incentives.

THE HAZARDOUS MATERIALS WE USE IN OUR RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER BUSINESS
OPERATIONS COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT LIABILITIES WHICH COULD EXCEED OUR
INSURANCE COVERAGE AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES.

We use certain hazardous materials in our research, development and general
business activities. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance
with the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use of
these materials, we cannot be certain that accidental injury or contamination
will not occur. Any such accident or contamination could result in substantial
liabilities that could exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources.
Additionally, the cost of compliance with environmental and safety laws and
regulations may increase in the future, requiring us to expend more financial
resources either in compliance or in purchasing supplemental insurance coverage.

THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENT REGULATION WHICH
PRESENTS NUMEROUS RISKS TO US.

The discovery, preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing,
marketing and labeling of pharmaceuticals and biologics are all subject to
extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities and agencies in the
United States and other countries. If we or our contractors and collaborators
are delayed in receiving, or are unable to obtain at all, necessary governmental
approvals, we will be unable to effectively market our products.

The testing, marketing and manufacturing of our products require regulatory
approval, including approval from the FDA and, in some cases, from the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, or governmental authorities outside
of the United States that perform roles similar to those of the FDA and EPA.
Certain of our pharmaceutical products, such as FOCALIN(TM), fall under the
Controlled Substances Act of 1970 that requires authorization by the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Agency, or DEA, of the U.S. Department of Justice in order to handle
and distribute these products. The regulatory approval process presents several
risks to us:

     o    In general, preclinical tests and clinical trials can take many years,
          and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and the data
          obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying
          interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval;

     o    Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the
          regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical or other
          data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the
          product to meet, a regulatory agency's requirements for safety,
          efficacy and quality or, in the case of a product seeking an orphan
          drug indication, because another designee received approval first;

                                       22


     o    Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to changes in
          regulatory agency policy, or the adoption of new regulations or
          legislation;

     o    The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may significantly
          limit the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed and
          reimbursed and may impose significant limitations in the nature of
          warnings, precautions and contra-indications that could materially
          affect the sales and profitability of the drug;

     o    Pricing and reimbursement controls;

     o    Approved drugs, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to
          continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of previously unknown
          problems with these products or the failure to adhere to manufacturing
          or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their
          manufacture, sale or use or in their withdrawal from the market;

     o    Regulatory authorities and agencies may promulgate additional
          regulations restricting the sale of our existing and proposed
          products;

     o    Once a product receives marketing approval, we may not market that
          product for broader or different applications, and the FDA may not
          grant us approval with respect to separate product applications that
          represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, the FDA may
          withdraw or modify existing approvals in a significant manner or
          promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our present
          or proposed products;

     o    Products, such as REVLIMID(R), that are subject to accelerated
          approval can be subject to an expedited withdrawal if the
          post-marketing study commitments are not completed with due diligence,
          the post-marketing restrictions are not adhered to or are shown to be
          inadequate to assure the safe use of the drug, or evidence
          demonstrates that the drug is not shown to be safe and effective under
          its conditions of use. Additionally, promotional materials for such
          drugs are subject to enhanced surveillance, including pre-approval
          review of all promotional materials used within 120 days following
          marketing approval and a requirement for the submissions 30 days prior
          to initial dissemination of all promotional materials disseminated
          after 120 days following marketing approval.

     o    Our labeling and promotional activities relating to our products are
          regulated by the FDA and state regulatory agencies and, in some
          circumstances, by the DEA, and are subject to associated risks. If we
          fail to comply with FDA regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label
          uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has
          not been obtained, the FDA, or the Office of the Inspector General of
          the Department of Health and Human Services or the state Attorneys
          General could bring an enforcement action against us that could
          inhibit our marketing capabilities as well as result in significant
          penalties.

The FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research currently regulates under
21 CFR Parts 1270 and 1271 human tissue intended for transplantation that is
recovered, processed, stored or distributed by methods that do not change tissue
function or characteristics and that is not currently regulated as a human drug,
biological product or medical device. Certain stem cell activities fall within
this category. Part 1270 requires tissue establishments to screen and test
donors, to prepare and follow written procedures for the prevention of the
spread of communicable disease and to maintain records. It also provides for
inspection by the FDA of tissue establishments. Part 1271 requires human cells,
tissue and

                                       23


cellular and tissue-based product establishments (HCT/Ps) to register with the
agency and list their HCT/Ps.

Currently, we are required to be, and are, licensed to operate in New York and
New Jersey, two of the states in which we currently collect placentas and
umbilical cord blood for our allogeneic and private stem cell banking
businesses. If other states adopt similar licensing requirements, we would need
to obtain such licenses to continue operating. If we are delayed in receiving,
or are unable to obtain at all, necessary licenses, we will be unable to provide
services in those states and this would impact negatively on our revenues.

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND OUR PRODUCTS MAY BE
SUBJECT TO GENERIC COMPETITION.

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents,
protect trade secrets, obtain licenses to technology owned by third parties and
to conduct our business without infringing upon the proprietary rights of
others. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms,
including ours, can be uncertain and involve complex legal and factual
questions.

Under the current U.S. patent laws, patent applications in the United States are
maintained in secrecy from four to eighteen months, and publication of
discoveries in the scientific and patent literature often lag behind actual
discoveries. Thus, we may discover sometime in the future that we, or the third
parties from whom we have licensed patents or patent applications, were not the
first to make and/or file the inventions covered by the patents and patent
applications in which we have or seek rights. In the event that a third party
has also filed a patent application for any of the inventions claimed in our
patents or patent applications, or those we have licensed-in, we could become
involved in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office to determine priority of invention or an opposition proceeding in other
places such as Europe. Such an interference or opposition could result in the
loss of an issued U.S. or foreign patent, respectively, or loss of any
opportunity to secure U.S. patent protection for that invention. Even if the
eventual outcome is favorable to us, such proceedings could result in
substantial cost and delay to us and limit the scope of the claimed subject
matter.

In addition, the coverage sought in a patent application may not be obtained or
may be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, if our
pending applications, or pending application that we have licensed-in from third
parties, do not result in the issuance of patents or if any patents that are
issued do not provide significant proprietary protection or commercial
advantage, our ability to sustain the necessary level of intellectual property
rights upon which our success depends may be restricted.

Moreover, different countries have different procedures for obtaining patents,
and patents issued in different countries provide different degrees of
protection against the use of a patented invention by others. Therefore, if the
issuance to us or our licensors, in a given country, of a patent covering an
invention is not followed by the issuance in other countries of patents covering
the same invention, or if any judicial interpretation of the validity,
enforceability or scope of the claims in a patent issued in one country is not
similar to the interpretation given to the corresponding patent issued in
another country, our ability to protect our intellectual property in other
countries may be limited.

Furthermore, even if our patents, or those we have licensed-in, are issued, our
competitors may still challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of such
patents in court, requiring us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly
litigation. Alternatively, our competitors may be able to design around such
patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. If any
of our issued or licensed patents are infringed, we may not be successful in
enforcing our or our licensor's intellectual property rights or

                                       24


defending the validity or enforceability of our issued patents and subsequently
not be able to develop or market applicable product exclusively.

FDA regulatory exclusivity for thalidomide has expired so that generic drug
companies can file an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, to seek
approval to market thalidomide in the United States. However, such an ANDA filer
will need to challenge the validity or enforceability of our United States
patents relating to our S.T.E.P.S.(R) program or to demonstrate that they do not
use an infringing risk management program. We cannot predict whether an ANDA
challenge to our patents will be made, nor can we predict whether our
S.T.E.P.S.(R) patents can be circumscribed or invalidated or otherwise rendered
unenforceable. However, if such an ANDA was filed and approved by the FDA, and
the generic company was successful in challenging our patents listed in the
Orange Book for THALOMID(R), the generic company would be permitted to sell a
generic thalidomide product.

Further, we rely upon unpatented proprietary and trade secret technology that we
try to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborative
partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored
researchers and other advisors. If these agreements are breached, we may not
have adequate remedies for any such breach. Despite precautions taken by us,
others may obtain access to or independently develop our proprietary technology
or such technology may be found to be non-proprietary or not a trade secret.

Our right to practice the inventions claimed in certain patents that relate to
THALOMID(R) arises under licenses granted to us by others, including The
Rockefeller University and Children's Medical Center Corporation, or CMCC. In
addition to these patents, which relate to thalidomide, we have also licensed
from CMCC certain patents relating to thalidomide analogs. In December 2002, we
entered into an exclusive license agreement with CMCC and EntreMed Inc. pursuant
to which CMCC exclusively licensed to us certain patents and patent applications
that relate to analogs, metabolites, precursors and hydrolysis products of
thalidomide, and all stereoisomers thereof. Our license under the December 2002
agreement is worldwide and royalty-bearing, and we have complete control over
the prosecution of the licensed thalidomide analog patent rights. Under this
December 2002 agreement, we are obligated to comply with certain milestones for
a REVLIMID(R) approval and royalties with respect to sales of REVLIMID(R). The
December 2002 agreement also grants us an option for a certain time period to
inventions in the field of thalidomide analogs that may be developed at CMCC in
the laboratory of Dr. Robert D'Amato, pursuant to the terms and conditions of a
separate Sponsored Research Agreement negotiated between CMCC and us.

Further, while we believe these confidentiality agreements and license
agreements to be valid and enforceable, our rights under these agreements may
not continue or disputes concerning these agreements may arise. If any of the
foregoing should occur, we may be unable to rely upon our unpatented proprietary
and trade secret technology, or we may be unable to use the third-party
proprietary technology we have licensed-in, either of which may prevent or
hamper us from successfully pursuing our business.

On August 19, 2004, we, together with our exclusive licensee Novartis, filed an
infringement action in the United States District Court of New Jersey against
Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., in response to notices of Paragraph IV
certifications made by Teva in connection with the filing of an ANDA for
FOCALIN(TM). The notification letters contend that United States Patent Nos.
5,908,850, or '850 patent, and 6,355,656, or '656 patent, were invalid. The '656
patent is currently the subject of reexamination proceedings in the United
States Patent and Trademark Office. After the suit was filed, Novartis listed
another patent, United States Patent No. 6,528,530, or '530 patent, in the
Orange Book in association with the FOCALIN(TM) NDA. Neither the '656 patent nor
the '530 patent is part of the patent infringement action against Teva. This
case does not involve an ANDA for RITALIN LA(R) or FOCALIN XR(TM) as such an
ANDA has not been filed. Recently, Teva amended its answer to contend that the
'850 patent was not

                                       25


infringed by the filing of its ANDA, and that the '850 patent is not enforceable
due to an allegation of inequitable conduct. Fact discovery expired on February
28, 2006. No trial date has been set. If successful, Teva will be permitted to
sell a generic version of FOCALIN(TM), which could significantly reduce our
sales of FOCALIN(TM) to Novartis.

It is also possible that third-party patent applications and patents could issue
with claims that broadly cover certain aspects of our business or of the subject
matter claimed in the patents or patent applications owned or optioned by us or
licensed to us, which may limit our ability to conduct our business or to
practice under our patents, and may impede our efforts to obtain meaningful
patent protection of our own. If patents are issued to third parties that
contain competitive or conflicting claims, we may be legally prohibited from
pursuing research, development or commercialization of potential products or be
required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative
technology. We may be legally prohibited from using patented technology, may not
be able to obtain any license to the patents and technologies of third parties
on acceptable terms, if at all, or may not be able to obtain or develop
alternative technologies. Consequently, if we cannot successfully defend against
any patent infringement suit that may be brought against us by a third-party, we
may lose the ability to continue to conduct our business as we presently do, or
to practice certain subject matter delineated by patent claims that we have
exclusive rights to, whether by ownership or by license, and that may have a
material adverse effect on our business.

We rely upon trademarks and service marks to protect our rights to the
intellectual property used in our business. On October 29, 2003, we filed a
lawsuit against Centocor, Inc. to prevent Centocor's use of the term "I.M.I.D.s"
in connection with Centocor's products, which use, we believe, is likely to
cause confusion with our IMiDs(R) registered trademark for compounds (including
REVLIMID(TM)) developed or being developed by us to treat cancer and
inflammatory diseases. If we are not successful in this suit, it may be
necessary for us to adopt a different trademark for that class of compounds and
thereby lose the value we believe we have built in the "IMiDs(R)" mark.

On January 15, 2004, an opposition proceeding was brought by Celltech R&D Ltd.
against granted European Patent 0728143 which we have licensed from the
University of California relating to JNK 1 and JNK 2 polypeptides. This
proceeding is directed solely to our claims for JNK 2 and not JNK 1. An oral
hearing occurred in October of 2005 in which the European Patent Office advised
us of its intent to revoke certain of our claims. We await a written decision.
The written decision may be appealed. We do have other JNK 1 and JNK European
patent application claims pending.

THE PHARMACEUTICAL AND BIOTECH INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND SUBJECT TO
RAPID AND SIGNIFICANT TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE.

The pharmaceutical industry in which we operate is highly competitive and
subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our present and potential
competitors include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as
specialty pharmaceutical firms, including but not limited to:

     o    Amgen, which potentially competes with our TNF(alpha) and kinase
          inhibitors;

     o    Novartis, which potentially competes with our IMiDs(R) compounds and
          kinase programs;

     o    Bristol Myers Squibb Co., which potentially competes in clinical
          trials with our IMiDs(R) compounds and TNF(alpha) inhibitors;

                                       26


     o    Genentech, Inc., which potentially competes in clinical trials with
          our IMiDs(R) compounds and TNF(alpha) inhibitors;

     o    AstraZeneca plc, which potentially competes in clinical trials with
          our IMiDs(R) compounds and TNF(alpha) inhibitors;

     o    Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc., which potentially competes in
          clinical trials with our IMiDs(R) compounds as well as with
          THALOMID(R);

     o    Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Pfizer Inc., which potentially compete
          in clinical trials with our kinase inhibitors; and

     o    Biogen IDEC Inc. and Genzyme Corporation, both of which are generally
          developing drugs that address the oncology and immunology markets.

Many of these companies have considerably greater financial, technical and
marketing resources than we. We also experience competition from universities
and other research institutions, and in some instances, we compete with others
in acquiring technology from these sources. The pharmaceutical industry has
undergone, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant
technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technical
advances in the field are made and become more widely known. The development of
products or processes by our competitors with significant advantages over those
that we are seeking to develop could cause the marketability of our products to
stagnate or decline.

SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS ARE DEPENDENT ON THIRD-PARTY REIMBURSEMENT.

Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of
our products will be paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit
and similar health care management organizations, or reimbursed by government
health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other
third-party payors. These health care management organizations and third-party
payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and
services. Additionally, the containment of health care costs has become a
priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of drugs have been a
focus in this effort. If these organizations and third-party payors do not
consider our products to be cost-effective or competitive with other available
therapies, they may not reimburse providers or consumers of our products or, if
they do, the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow us to sell
our products on a profitable basis.

WE HAVE GROWN RAPIDLY, AND IF WE FAIL TO ADEQUATELY MANAGE THAT GROWTH OUR
BUSINESS COULD BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED.

We have an aggressive growth plan that has included substantial and increasing
investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and facilities. We
plan to continue to grow and our plan has a number of risks, some of which we
cannot control. For example:

     o    we will need to generate higher revenues to cover a higher level of
          operating expenses, and our ability to do so may depend on factors
          that we do not control;

     o    we will need to assimilate new staff members;

     o    we will need to manage complexities associated with a larger and
          faster growing multinational organization; and

                                       27


     o   we will need to accurately anticipate demand for the products we
         manufacture and maintain adequate manufacturing capacity, and our
         ability to do so may depend on factors that we do not control.

THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY, WHICH MAY MAKE IT
DIFFICULT FOR YOU TO SELL THE COMMON STOCK WHEN YOU WANT OR AT PRICES YOU FIND
ATTRACTIVE.

There has been significant volatility in the market prices for publicly traded
shares of biopharmaceutical companies, including ours. We expect that the market
price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. After adjusting prices to
reflect our two-for-one stock split effected on February 17, 2006, the intra-day
price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $32.68 per share to a low of
$12.35 per share in 2005. On December 31, 2005, our common stock closed at a
split-adjusted price of $32.40 per share. The price of our common stock may not
remain at or exceed current levels. The following key factors may have an
adverse impact on the market price of our common stock:

     o    results of our clinical trials or adverse events associated with our
          marketed products;

     o    announcements of technical or product developments by our competitors;

     o    market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks;

     o    market conditions generally;

     o    governmental regulation;

     o    health care legislation;

     o    public announcements regarding medical advances in the treatment of
          the disease states that we are targeting;

     o    patent or proprietary rights developments;

     o    changes in pricing and third-party reimbursement policies for our
          products; or

     o    fluctuations in our operating results.

In addition, the stock market in general and the biotechnology sector in
particular has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to
the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market
fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE COULD
ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK.

Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or debt or other
securities convertible into common stock could adversely affect the market price
of our common stock. As of December 31, 2005, after adjusting prices to reflect
our two-for-one stock split effected on February 17, 2006, there were
outstanding stock options and warrants for 50,999,074 shares of common stock, of
which 49,865,160 were currently exercisable at an exercise price range between
$0.04 per share and $35.67 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of
$13.95 per share. In addition, in June 2003, we issued $400.0 million

                                       28


of unsecured convertible notes that are currently convertible into 33,022,360
shares of our common stock at the conversion price of $12.1125. The conversion
of some or all of these notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing
stockholders.

OUR SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN AND CERTAIN CHARTER AND BY-LAW PROVISIONS MAY DETER
A THIRD-PARTY FROM ACQUIRING US AND MAY IMPEDE THE STOCKHOLDERS' ABILITY TO
REMOVE AND REPLACE OUR MANAGEMENT OR BOARD OF DIRECTORS.

Our board of directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan, the purpose of
which is to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control
of us that do not offer a fair price to all of our stockholders. The rights plan
may have the effect of dissuading a potential acquirer from making an offer for
our common stock at a price that represents a premium to the then current
trading price.

Our board of directors has the authority to issue, at any time, without further
stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to
determine the price, rights, privileges and preferences of those shares. An
issuance of preferred stock could discourage a third-party from acquiring a
majority of our outstanding voting stock. Additionally, our board of directors
has adopted certain amendments to our by-laws intended to strengthen the board's
position in the event of a hostile takeover attempt. These provisions could
impede the stockholders' ability to remove and replace our management and/or
board of directors.

Furthermore, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware
General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law, which may also dissuade a
potential acquirer of our common stock.

BEGINNING IN JANUARY 2006, WE WILL BE REQUIRED TO EXPENSE THE FAIR VALUE OF
STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED UNDER OUR STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS AND OUR NET INCOME AND
EARNINGS PER SHARE WILL BE SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCED AS A RESULT.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, "Share-Based Payment," or
SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R requires compensation cost relating to share-based payment
transactions be recognized in financial statements based on the fair value of
the equity or liability instruments issued. SFAS 123R covers a wide range of
share-based compensation arrangements including stock options, restricted stock
plans, performance-based awards, stock appreciation rights, and employee stock
purchase plans. SFAS 123R replaces SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation," and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees." SFAS No. 123, as originally issued in 1995, established as
preferable a fair-value-based method of accounting for share-based payment
transactions with employees. However, SFAS No. 123 permitted entities to
continue to apply the guidance in APB Opinion No. 25, as long as the footnotes
to financial statements disclosed what net income would have been had the
preferable fair-value-based method been used. We will be required to adopt the
provisions of SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. Management
is currently evaluating the requirements of SFAS No. 123R. The adoption of SFAS
No. 123R is expected to have a material effect on our consolidated financial
statements. See Note 1, Nature of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this
Annual Report for the pro forma impact on net income and net income per share
from calculating stock-based compensation cost under the fair value method of
SFAS No. 123. However, the calculation of compensation cost for share-based
payment transactions after the effective date of SFAS No. 123R may be different
from the calculation of compensation cost under SFAS No. 123.

In December 2005, in recognition of the significance of the REVLIMID(R)
regulatory approval, the Board of Directors approved a resolution to grant the
2006 annual stock option awards in 2005 pursuant to the 1998 Stock Incentive
Plan, or the 1998 Plan, and the 1998 Non-Employee Directors' Incentive Plan. All
stock options awarded pursuant to the 1998 Plan were granted fully vested, with
half issued at an exercise price, or strike price, of $34.05 per option and the
other half issued at a strike price of $35.67 per option, which was at a premium
to the closing price of $32.43, adjusted for the February 17, 2006 two-for-one
stock split, of our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market on the grant date
of December 29, 2005. The Board's decision to grant these options was in
recognition of the REVLIMID(R) regulatory approval and in response to a review
of our long-term incentive compensation programs in light of changes in market
practices and recently issued changes in accounting rules resulting from the
issuance of FASB No. 123R, which we are required to adopt effective the first
quarter of 2006. Management believes that granting these options prior to the
adoption of FASB No. 123R will result in our not being required to recognize
cumulative compensation expense of approximately $70.8 million for the four-year
period ending December 31, 2009.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and annual
reports on Form 10-K are electronically filed with or furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and all such reports and amendments
to such reports filed have been and will be made available, free of charge,
through our website (http://www.celgene.com) as soon as reasonably practicable
after such filing. Such reports will remain available on our website for at
least twelve months. The contents of our website are not incorporated by
reference into this annual report. The public may read and copy any materials
filed by us with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20549.

The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site
(http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements,
and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

ITEM 1B