Item 1A of this Annual Report.


 


    For the year ended December 31, 2007, we reported revenue
    of $1.406 billion, net income of $226.4 million and
    diluted earnings per share of $0.54, representing increases of
    56.4%, 228.3% and 200.0%, respectively, compared to the year
    ended December 31, 2006. This increase primarily reflects
    the expanded use of
    REVLIMID®,
    partly offset by increased operating expenses required to
    support our on-going research, commercial operations and
    continued expansion into international markets.



    
    1



Table of Contents





    ACQUISITIONS


 


    In August 2000, we acquired Signal Pharmaceuticals, Inc., d/b/a
    Celgene Research San Diego, a privately held
    biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and
    development of drugs that regulate genes associated with disease.


 


    In December 2002, we acquired Anthrogenesis Corp., which was a
    privately held New Jersey-based biotherapeutics company and cord
    blood banking business, developing technologies for the recovery
    of stem cells from human placental tissues following the
    completion of full-term, successful pregnancies. Anthrogenesis
    d/b/a Celgene Cellular Therapeutics, or CCT, now operates as a
    wholly owned subsidiary of Celgene Corporation engaged in the
    research, recovery culture-expansion, preservation, development
    and distribution of placental stem cells as therapeutic agents.


 


    In October 2004, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of
    Penn T Limited, a UK-based global supplier of
    THALOMID®.
    This acquisition expanded our corporate capabilities and enabled
    us to control manufacturing for
    THALOMID®
    worldwide. Through supply contracts acquired in this purchase,
    we also increased our participation in the potential growth of
    THALOMID®
    revenues in key international markets.


 


    In December 2006, we purchased an active pharmaceutical
    ingredient, or API, manufacturing facility from Siegfried Ltd.
    and Siegfried Dienste AG (together “Siegfried”)
    located in Zofingen, Switzerland. The manufacturing facility has
    the capability to produce multiple drug substances and is being
    used to produce
    REVLIMID®
    and
    THALOMID®
    API to supply global markets. The facility may also be used to
    produce drug substance for our future drugs and drug candidates.
    This asset acquisition expanded our manufacturing capabilities
    and enabled us to control the production of
    REVLIMID®
    and
    THALOMID®
    worldwide.


 


    In November 2007, we announced the signing of a definitive
    merger agreement pursuant to which we agreed to acquire Pharmion
    Corporation, or Pharmion. Under the terms of the merger
    agreement, we will acquire all of the outstanding shares of
    Pharmion common stock for $72.00 per share payable in a
    combination of cash and shares of Celgene common stock. The
    transaction has been unanimously approved by the Boards of
    Directors of both companies and is subject to customary closing
    conditions including the approval of the acquisition by Pharmion
    stockholders and receipt of antitrust clearances. The
    Hart-Scott-Rodino
    Act, or HSR, thirty day waiting period has expired without the
    United States Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, requesting
    additional information with regard to the merger. In addition,
    the Bundeskartellamt, Germany’s Federal Cartel Office in
    charge of reviewing the antitrust aspects of mergers and
    acquisitions, has cleared Celgene’s pending acquisition of
    Pharmion. On February 5, 2008 the
    Form S-4
    relating to the merger of Pharmion and Celgene was declared
    effective by the United States Securities and Exchange
    Commission, or SEC. The merger is expected to be completed in
    March 2008. Refer to Note 2 “Proposed Merger with
    Pharmion Corporation” contained within the consolidated
    financial statements for additional information.


 



    COMMERCIAL
    STAGE PRODUCTS:


 


    REVLIMID®
    (lenalidomide):  REVLIMID®
    is an oral immunomodulatory drug approved by the FDA, the EC,
    Swissmedic, and the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration
    for treatment in combination with dexamethasone for patients
    with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior
    therapy.
    REVLIMID®
    is also approved by the FDA and Canadian Therapeutic Products
    Directorate for treatment of patients with transfusion-dependent
    anemia due to low- or intermediate-1-risk MDS, associated with a
    deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional
    cytogenetic abnormalities.
    REVLIMID®
    is distributed in the United States primarily through contracted
    pharmacies under the
    RevAssist®
    program, which is a proprietary risk-management distribution
    program tailored specifically to help ensure, to the maximum
    extent possible, the safe use of
    REVLIMID®
    and is being distributed in additional countries where approval
    has been obtained as pricing, reimbursement and details of
    controlled distribution in each market are determined.


 


    REVLIMID®
    continues to be evaluated in numerous clinical trials worldwide
    either alone or in combination with one or more other therapies
    in the treatment of a broad range of hematological malignancies,
    including multiple myeloma, MDS, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, or
    NHL, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or CLL, other cancers and
    other diseases.



    
    2



Table of Contents




    A Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, seeking approval
    to market
    REVLIMID®
    for treatment of transfusion-dependent anemia due to
    low-or-intermediate-1 risk myelodysplastic syndromes associated
    with a deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without
    additional cytogenetic abnormalities was evaluated by the
    European Medicines Agency’s, or EMEA, Committee for
    Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, and a negative
    opinion was issued in January 2008. The CHMP concluded that
    lenalidomide is efficacious in patients suffering from deletion
    5q MDS. However, based on information available to the CHMP from
    the uncontrolled, open-label, 148-patient Phase II study
    (MDS-003), the CHMP was not convinced the data were sufficient
    to assure safety. We intend to apply for a re-examination of the
    CHMP opinion in accordance with relevant EMEA procedures. Other
    international regulatory initiatives include MAAs currently
    being evaluated in New Zealand and Israel.


 


    In April 2007, the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group reported
    that its Data Monitoring Committee’s review of preliminary
    results from a large, randomized clinical trial for patients
    with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma found that the use of a
    lower-dose of dexamethasone in combination with
    REVLIMID®
    suggests survival advantage for patients when compared to the
    higher, standard-dose of dexamethasone that is used in
    combination with
    REVLIMID®
    to treat the disease. These results were also presented at the
    June 2007 annual American Society of Clinical Oncology medical
    conference and updated at the December 2007 annual American
    Society of Hematology meeting. The regulatory utility of these
    findings will be discussed with the FDA.


 


    THALOMID®
    (thalidomide):  THALOMID®
    was approved by the FDA in May 2006 for use in combination with
    dexamethasone for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed
    multiple myeloma and in July 1998 for the treatment of acute
    cutaneous manifestations of moderate to severe erythema nodosum
    leprosum, or ENL, and as maintenance therapy for prevention and
    suppression of the cutaneous manifestation of ENL recurrence.


 


    THALOMID®
    is distributed under our “System for Thalidomide
    Education and Prescribing Safety,” or
    S.T.E.P.S.®,
    program which we developed and is a proprietary strategic
    comprehensive education and risk-management distribution program
    with the objective of providing for the safe and appropriate
    distribution and use of
    THALOMID®.
    Among other things,
    S.T.E.P.S.®
    requires prescribers, patients and dispensing pharmacies to
    participate in a registry and an order cannot be filled unless
    the physicians, patients and pharmacies have been registered,
    trained and meet all qualification criteria.


 


    ALKERAN®
    (melphalan):  ALKERAN®
    is licensed from GSK, and sold under the Celgene label.
    ALKERAN®
    was approved by the FDA for the palliative treatment of multiple
    myeloma and of carcinoma of the ovary. Under terms of the
    licensing agreement, we purchase
    ALKERAN®
    tablets and
    ALKERAN®
    for injection from GSK and distribute the products in the United
    States. The agreement, which has been extended through
    March 31, 2009, requires us to purchase certain minimum
    quantities of
    ALKERAN®
    each year under a take-or-pay arrangement.


 


    RITALIN®
    Family of Drugs:  In April 2000, we
    licensed to Novartis the worldwide rights (excluding Canada) to
    FOCALINtm
    and FOCALIN
    XRtm,
    which are approved for the treatment of attention deficit
    hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD. We retained the rights to these
    products for the treatment of oncology-related disorders. We
    sell
    FOCALINtm
    exclusively to Novartis and also supply them with FOCALIN
    XRtm,
    for which we receive a royalty.


 


    FOCALINtm
    is formulated by isolating the active d-isomer of
    methylphenidate and contains only the more active isomer
    responsible for the effective management of the symptoms of
    ADHD.
    FOCALINtm
    provides favorable tolerability and dosing flexibility at half
    the dose of
    RITALIN®.


 



    PRECLINICAL
    AND CLINICAL — STAGE PIPELINE:


 


    Our preclinical and clinical-stage pipeline of new drug
    candidates, in addition to our cell therapies, is highlighted by
    multiple classes of small molecule, orally administered
    therapeutic agents designed to selectively regulate
    disease-associated genes and proteins. The product candidates in
    our pipeline are at various



    
    3



Table of Contents




    stages of preclinical and clinical development. Successful
    results in preclinical or Phase I/II clinical studies may not be
    an accurate predictor of the ultimate safety or effectiveness of
    a drug or product candidate.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Phase
    I Clinical Trials





 


    If the FDA allows a request to initiate clinical investigations
    of a new drug or product candidate to become effective, Phase I
    human clinical trials can begin. These tests usually involve
    between 20 to 80 healthy volunteers or patients. The tests study
    a drug’s safety profile, and may include preliminary
    determination of a drug or product candidate’s safe dosage
    range. The Phase I clinical studies also determine how a drug is
    absorbed, distributed, metabolized and excreted by the body, and
    the duration of its action.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Phase II
    Clinical Trials





 


    In Phase II clinical trials, studies are conducted on a
    limited number of patients with the targeted disease. An initial
    evaluation of the drug’s effectiveness on patients is
    performed and additional information on the drug’s safety
    and dosage range is obtained.


 




    
    



    
    • 

    
    Phase III
    Clinical Trials





 


    This phase typically includes controlled multi-center trials and
    involves a larger target patient population to ensure that study
    results are statistically significant. During the Phase III
    clinical trials, physicians monitor patients to determine
    efficacy and to gather further information on safety.


 


    IMiDs®:  IMiDs®
    compounds are proprietary novel small molecule, orally available
    compounds that modulate the immune system and other biologically
    important targets through multiple mechanisms of action. We have
    marketed
    REVLIMID®
    and have advanced two other
    IMiDs®
    compounds into clinical development, CC-4047 and CC-11006.
    Additional compounds, including CC-10015, are in preclinical
    development.


 


    Our
    IMiDs®
    compounds are covered by an extensive and comprehensive
    intellectual property estate of U.S. and foreign-issued
    patents and pending patent applications including
    composition-of-matter, use and other patents and patent
    applications.


 


    CC-4047:  CC-4047 (pomalidomide) is one
    of the most potent
    IMiDs®
    compounds that we are developing. We opened our investigational
    new drug, or IND, application to evaluate CC-4047 in a
    U.S. proof-of-principle study in sickle cell anemia. We are
    also evaluating CC-4047 for treatment in other diseases
    including myelofibrosis, multiple myeloma and solid tumor
    cancers.


 


    CC-11006:  CC-11006 is another molecule
    with activities distinct from those of
    REVLIMID®
    and CC-4047. Following successful completion of Phase I human
    clinical trials, we are currently evaluating conditions where
    this profile will have best therapeutic application including an
    ongoing Phase I clinical trial in MDS.


 


    ORAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AGENTS:  In May
    2007, we announced plans to advance the development of leading
    oral anti-inflammatory candidates across a broad range of
    inflammatory diseases. Our oral PDE-4 inhibitor, CC-10004
    (apremilast), is a member of a proprietary pipeline of novel
    small molecules with anti-inflammatory activities that impede
    the production of multiple proinflammatory mediators by
    inhibiting PDE-4 resulting in reductions in TNF-α as well
    as interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-17 and IL-23, interferon-gamma,
    leukotrienes and nitric oxide synthase. Apremilast is our lead
    investigational drug in this class of anti-inflammatory
    compounds. Based on results from proof-of-mechanism studies, we
    are accelerating clinical and regulatory strategies for
    apremilast in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis, as well as
    embarking on exploratory clinical trials in rheumatoid arthritis
    and additional rheumatic, dermatologic and inflammatory diseases
    to determine the potential of apremilast across a broad range of
    debilitating inflammatory diseases. We believe that our second
    oral PDE-4 inhibitor, CC-11050, which has completed Phase I
    trials, will also prove to be effective in a number of
    inflammatory conditions and is moving forward with its
    development.


 


    KINASE INHIBITORS:  We have generated
    valuable intellectual property in the identification of kinases
    that regulate pathways critical in inflammation and oncology.
    Our kinase inhibitor platform includes inhibitors



    
    4



Table of Contents




    of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase, or JNK, pathway, and inhibitors
    of the NFkB pathway. The JNK inhibitor, CC-401, has successfully
    completed a Phase I trial in healthy volunteers and in acute
    myelogenous leukemia, or AML, patients to determine safety and
    tolerability. No further studies are planned at this time as we
    intend to advance other JNK inhibitors. An investigational new
    drug application was filed for CC-930 on December 18, 2007
    and the application was approved in January 2008. Phase I
    testing is scheduled to begin in February 2008.


 


    LIGASE INHIBITORS:  Our work has defined
    ubiquitin ligases that regulate the degradation of intracellular
    proteins. These ligases, as a class of targets, have broad
    potential for drug discovery in oncology. By identifying drug
    targets and compounds that regulate ligase pathways, we are
    addressing the potential to develop an important new class of
    anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory therapeutics.


 


    PLEIOTROPIC PATHWAY MODIFIERS:  Based
    upon our observations about the effect of therapeutics to modify
    multiple intracellular signaling pathways in distinct cell
    types, we have identified a new class of molecules that impact
    activity of several key pathways of therapeutic relevance. The
    first of these, CC-16057, has moved into preclinical development
    for inflammatory conditions.


 


    STEM CELLS:  At Celgene Cellular
    Therapeutics, or CCT, we are researching stem cells derived from
    the human placenta as well as from the umbilical cord. CCT is
    our state-of-the-art research and development division dedicated
    to fulfilling the promise of cellular technologies by developing
    cutting-edge products and therapies that will significantly
    benefit patients. Our goal is to develop proprietary cell
    therapy products for the treatment of unmet medical needs.


 


    Stem cell based therapies offer the potential to provide
    disease-modifying outcomes for serious diseases which today lack
    adequate therapy. We have developed proprietary technology for
    collecting, processing, and storing placental stem cells with
    potentially broad therapeutic applications in cancer,
    auto-immune diseases, including Crohn’s disease and
    multiple sclerosis, neurological disorders including stroke and
    ALS, graft-versus-host disease and other immunological and
    rheumatilogical disorders. Our studies of the placenta indicate
    that it is a rich source of potential products with biological
    activity and therapeutic promise. Our lead product, PDA-001, is
    completing preclinical studies. We plan to submit our first IND
    in the second half of 2008.


 


    In December 2006, CCT submitted an IND for our human placental
    derived stem cell, or HPDSC, product. We also maintain an IND
    with the FDA for a trial with cord blood in sickle cell anemia.
    Additional preclinical research to define further the potential
    of placental-derived stem cells and to characterize other
    placental-derived products is continuing.



    
    5



Table of Contents





    CELGENE
    LEADING PRODUCT CANDIDATES


 


    The development of our leading new drug candidates and their
    targeted disease indications are outlined in the following table:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    Disease
    


 


 





    Product



 



    Indication



 



    Status




 





    IMiDs Compounds:



 


 


 


 





    CC-4047



 


    Solid tumor cancers Myelofibrosis Hemoglobinopathies 
    Multiple myeloma


 


    Phase II trials initiated 
    Phase II trial ongoing 
    Phase I-II trial initiated 
    Phase II trial planned





    CC-11006



 


    Hematological malignances


 


    Phase I/II trial ongoing in MDS





    CC-10015



 


    Inflammatory diseases


 


    Pre-clinical studies ongoing





    CC-0478765



 


    Inflammatory diseases


 


    Pre-clinical studies ongoing





    CC-0478995



 


    Inflammatory diseases


 


    Pre-clinical studies ongoing





    Oral Anti-Inflammatory:



 


 


 


 





    CC-10004



 


    Psoriasis Psoriatic arthritis Inflammatory diseases


 


    Phase II trial in severe psoriasis ongoing and IIb trial in
    moderate to severe psoriasis planned 
    Phase II trials ongoing 
    Phase II trials planned





    CC-11050



 


    Inflammatory diseases


 


    Phase II trials planned




    PPM (Pleiotropic Pathway Modifiers):


 


 


 


 





    CC-16057



 


    Inflammatory diseases


 


    Pre-clinical studies ongoing





    Kinase Inhibitors:



 


 


 


 





    JNK 930



 


    Fibrotic diseases


 


    Phase I trial initiating





    Stem Cell:



 


 


 


 





    HPDSC



 


    Transplants, hematological  disorders 
    Orthopedics


 


    Phase I trials initiating 
    
    Preclinical studies ongoing





    PDA-001



 


    Autoimmune/cancer 
    Crohn’s disease 
    Multiple sclerosis 
    ALS 
    GVHD
    Stroke


 


    Pre-clinical studies ongoing Pre-clinical studies ongoing
    Pre-clinical studies ongoing Pre-clinical studies ongoing
    Pre-clinical studies ongoing Pre-clinical studies ongoing








 



    PATENTS
    AND PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY


 


    Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our
    business. It is our policy to seek patent protection for our
    inventions, and also to rely upon trade secrets, know-how,
    continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities
    to develop and maintain our competitive position.


 


    We own or have exclusively licensed at least 155 issued
    U.S. patents and at least 285 additional U.S. patent
    applications are pending. While we have a policy to seek
    worldwide patent protection for our inventions, we have foreign
    patent rights corresponding to most of our U.S. patents.
    Further, although
    THALOMID®
    is approved for use associated with ENL, we do not have patent
    protection relating to the use of
    THALOMID®
    to treat ENL.


 


    In August 2001, we entered into an agreement, termed the
    “New Thalidomide Agreement,” with EntreMed, Inc.,
    Children’s Medical Center Corporation, or CMCC, and
    Bioventure Investments, KFT relating to patents and patent
    applications owned by CMCC, which agreement superceded several
    agreements already



    
    6



Table of Contents




    in place between CMCC, EntreMed and us. Pursuant to the New
    Thalidomide Agreement, CMCC directly granted to us an exclusive
    worldwide license under the relevant patents and patent
    applications relating to thalidomide. Several U.S. patents
    have been issued to CMCC in this patent family and certain of
    these patents expire in 2013 and 2014. Corresponding foreign
    patent applications and additional U.S. patent applications
    are still pending.


 


    In addition to the New Thalidomide Agreement, we entered into an
    agreement, entitled the “New Analog Agreement,” with
    CMCC and EntreMed in December 2002, pursuant to which we have
    been granted an exclusive worldwide license to certain CMCC
    patents and patent applications relating to thalidomide analogs.
    The New Analog Agreement was executed in connection with the
    settlement of certain pending litigation by and among us,
    EntreMed and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office relating
    to the allowance of certain CMCC patent applications covering
    thalidomide analogs. These patent applications had been licensed
    exclusively to EntreMed in the field of thalidomide analogs. In
    conjunction with the settlement of these suits, we acquired
    equity securities in EntreMed, and EntreMed terminated its
    license agreements with CMCC relating to thalidomide analogs. In
    turn, under the New Analog Agreement, CMCC exclusively licensed
    to Celgene these patents and patent applications, which relate
    to analogs, metabolites, precursors and hydrolysis products of
    thalidomide, and stereoisomers thereof. Under the New Analog
    Agreement, we are obligated to comply with certain milestones
    and other obligations, including those relating to
    REVLIMID®
    approval and sales.


 


    The New Analog Agreement grants us control over the prosecution
    and maintenance of the licensed thalidomide analog patent
    rights. The New Analog Agreement also granted us an option to
    inventions in the field of thalidomide analogs that may be
    developed at CMCC in the laboratory of Dr. Robert
    D’Amato, pursuant to the terms and conditions of a separate
    Sponsored Research Agreement negotiated between CMCC and us.


 


    Our research led us to seek patent protection for molecular
    targets and drug discovery technologies, as well as therapeutic
    and diagnostic products and processes. More specifically,
    proprietary technology has been developed for use in molecular
    target discovery, the identification of regulatory pathways in
    cells, assay design and the discovery and development of
    pharmaceutical product candidates. As of December 2007, included
    in those inventions described above, we owned, in whole or in
    part, 49 issued U.S. patents and approximately
    57 U.S. pending patent applications, including pending
    provisional applications. An increasing percentage of our
    San Diego subsidiary’s recent patent applications have
    been related to potential product candidates or compounds. It
    also holds licenses to U.S. patents and U.S. patent
    applications, some of which are licensed exclusively or
    sub-licensed
    to third parties in connection with sponsored or collaborative
    research relationships.


 


    CCT, our cellular therapeutics subsidiary, seeks patent
    protection for the collection, processing, composition,
    formulation and uses of mammalian placental and umbilical cord
    tissue and placental and umbilical cord stem cells, as well as
    cells and biomaterials derived from the placenta. As of December
    2007, CCT owned, in whole or in part, five U.S. patents,
    and more than 48 U.S. patent applications, including
    pending provisional applications, and holds licenses to
    U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications, including
    certain patents and patent applications related to cord blood
    collection and storage.


 


    Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and
    enforce patents, protect trade secrets, obtain licenses to
    technology owned by third parties where it is necessary to
    conduct our business without infringing upon the proprietary
    rights of others. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and
    biotechnology firms, including ours, can be uncertain and
    involve complex legal and factual questions. In addition, the
    coverage sought in a patent application can be significantly
    reduced before the patent is issued.


 


    Consequently, we do not know whether any of our owned or
    licensed pending patent applications, which have not already
    been allowed, will result in the issuance of patents or, if any
    patents are issued, whether they will be dominated by
    third-party patent rights, whether they will provide significant
    proprietary protection or commercial advantage or whether they
    will be circumvented, opposed or infringed by others. Finally,
    we are also aware of third-party U.S. patents that relate
    to the use of certain stem cell technologies and cannot
    guarantee that our patents or pending applications will not be
    involved in, or be defeated as a result of,



    
    7



Table of Contents




    opposition proceedings before a foreign patent office or any
    interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and
    Trademark Office.


 


    With respect to patents and patent applications we have
    licensed-in, there can be no assurance that additional patents
    will be issued to any of the third parties from whom we have
    licensed patent rights, either with respect to thalidomide or
    thalidomide analogs, or that, if any new patents are issued,
    such patents will not be opposed, challenged, invalidated,
    infringed or dominated or provide us with significant
    proprietary protection or commercial advantage. Moreover, there
    can be no assurance that any of the existing licensed patents
    will provide us with proprietary protection or commercial
    advantage. Nor can we guarantee that these licensed patents will
    not be either infringed, invalidated or circumvented by others,
    or that the relevant agreements will not be terminated. Any
    termination of the licenses granted to Celgene by CMCC could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    Because 1) patent applications filed in the United States
    on or before November 28, 2000 are maintained in secrecy
    until patents issue, 2) patent applications filed in the
    U.S. on or after November 29, 2000 are not published
    until approximately 18 months after their earliest claimed
    priority date and 3) publication of discoveries in the
    scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual
    discoveries, we cannot be certain that we, or our licensors,
    were the first to make the inventions covered by each of the
    issued patents or pending patent applications or that we, or our
    licensors, were the first to file patent applications for such
    inventions. In the event a third party has also filed a patent
    for any of our inventions, we, or our licensors, may have to
    participate in interference proceedings before the
    U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of
    invention, which could result in the loss of a U.S. patent
    or loss of any opportunity to secure U.S. patent protection
    for the invention. Even if the eventual outcome is favorable to
    us, such interference proceedings could result in substantial
    cost to us.


 


    We are aware of U.S. patents that have been issued to third
    parties claiming subject matter relating to the NFκB
    pathway, including U.S. patents which could overlap with
    technology claimed in some of our owned or licensed NFκB
    patents or patent applications, and a U.S. patent that has
    been asserted against certain pharmaceutical companies. With
    respect to those patents that overlap with our applications, we
    believe that one or more interference proceedings may be
    initiated by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to
    determine priority of invention for this subject matter. While
    we cannot predict the outcome of any such proceedings, in the
    event we do not prevail, we believe that we can use alternative
    methods for our NFκB drug discovery program for which we
    have issued U.S. patents that are not claimed by the
    subject matter of the third-party patents. We are also aware of
    third-party U.S patents that relate to the use of certain
    TNF-α inhibitors to treat inflammation or conditions such
    as asthma.


 


    We may in the future have to prove that we are not infringing
    patents or we may be required to obtain licenses to such
    patents. However, we do not know whether such licenses will be
    available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.
    Prosecution of patent applications and litigation to establish
    the validity and scope of patents, to assert patent infringement
    claims against others and to defend against patent infringement
    claims by others can be expensive and time-consuming. There can
    be no assurance that, in the event that claims of any of our
    owned or licensed patents are challenged by one or more third
    parties, any court or patent authority ruling on such challenge
    will determine that such patent claims are valid and
    enforceable. An adverse outcome in such litigation could cause
    us to lose exclusivity relating to the subject matter delineated
    by such patent claims and may have a material adverse effect on
    our business. If a third party is found to have rights covering
    products or processes used by us, we could be forced to cease
    using the products or processes covered by the disputed rights,
    subject to significant liabilities to such third party
    and/or be
    required to license technologies from such third party. Also,
    different countries have different procedures for obtaining
    patents, and patents issued by different countries provide
    different degrees of protection against the use of a patented
    invention by others. There can be no assurance, therefore, that
    the issuance to us in one country of a patent covering an
    invention will be followed by the issuance in other countries of
    patents covering the same invention or that any judicial
    interpretation of the validity, enforceability or scope of the
    claims in a patent issued in one country will be similar to the
    judicial interpretation given to a corresponding patent issued
    in another country. Competitors may choose to file oppositions
    to patent applications, which have been deemed allowable by
    foreign patent examiners. Furthermore, even if our owned or
    licensed patents are determined to be valid and



    
    8



Table of Contents




    enforceable, there can be no assurance that competitors will not
    be able to design around such patents and compete with us using
    the resulting alternative technology. Additionally, for these
    same reasons, we cannot be sure that patents of a broader scope
    than ours may be issued and thereby create freedom to operate
    issues. If this occurs we may need to reevaluate pursuing such
    technology, which is dominated by others’ patent rights, or
    alternatively, seek a license to practice our own invention,
    whether or not patented.


 


    We also rely upon unpatented, proprietary and trade secret
    technology that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality
    agreements with our collaborative partners, employees,
    consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored
    researchers and other advisors. There can be no assurance that
    these agreements provide meaningful protection or that they will
    not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any
    such breach or that our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and
    technological advances will not otherwise become known to
    others. In addition, there can be no assurance that, despite
    precautions taken by us, others have not and will not obtain
    access to our proprietary technology or that such technology
    will not be found to be non-proprietary or not a trade secret.


 



    GOVERNMENTAL
    REGULATION


 


    Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and
    other countries is a significant factor in the manufacture and
    marketing of pharmaceuticals and in our ongoing research and
    development activities. Most, if not all, of our therapeutic
    products require regulatory approval by governmental agencies
    prior to commercialization. In particular, human therapeutic
    products are subject to rigorous preclinical testing and
    clinical trials and other pre-marketing approval requirements by
    the FDA and regulatory authorities in other countries. In the
    United States, various federal and in some cases state statutes
    and regulations also govern or impact upon the manufacturing,
    testing for safety and effectiveness, labeling, storage,
    record-keeping and marketing of such products. The lengthy
    process of seeking required approvals, and the continuing need
    for compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require
    the expenditure of substantial resources. Regulatory approval,
    if and when obtained, may be limited in scope which may
    significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may
    be marketed. Further, approved drugs, as well as their
    manufacturers, are subject to ongoing review and discovery of
    previously unknown problems with such products or the
    manufacturing or quality control procedures used in their
    production may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale
    or use or in their withdrawal from the market. Any failure by
    us, our suppliers of manufactured drug product, collaborators or
    licensees to obtain or maintain, or any delay in obtaining,
    regulatory approvals could adversely affect the marketing of our
    products and our ability to receive product revenue, license
    revenue or profit sharing payments.


 


    The activities required before a product may be marketed in the
    United States begin with preclinical testing not involving human
    subjects. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of a
    product candidate’s chemistry and its biological activities
    and the conduct of animal studies to assess the potential safety
    and efficacy of a product candidate and its formulations. The
    results of these studies must be submitted to the FDA as part of
    an investigational new drug application, or IND, which must be
    reviewed by the FDA primarily for safety considerations before
    proposed clinical trials in humans can begin.


 


    Typically, clinical trials involve a three-phase process as
    previously described. In some cases, further studies (Phase
    IV) are required as a condition for new drug application,
    or NDA, or biologics license application, or BLA, approval, to
    provide additional information concerning the drug or product.
    The FDA requires monitoring of all aspects of clinical trials,
    and reports of all adverse events must be made to the agency
    before drug approval. After approval, we have ongoing reporting
    obligations concerning adverse reactions associated with the
    drug, including expedited reports for serious and unexpected
    adverse events. Additionally, we may have limited control over
    studies conducted with our proprietary compounds or biologics if
    such studies are performed by others (e.g., cooperative groups
    and the like).


 


    The results of the preclinical testing and clinical trials are
    submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA or BLA for evaluation to
    determine if the product is sufficiently safe and effective for
    approval to commence commercial sales. In responding to an NDA
    or BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional
    information or deny the application if it determines that the
    application does not satisfy its



    
    9



Table of Contents




    regulatory approval criteria. When an NDA or BLA is approved,
    the NDA or BLA holder must a) employ a system for obtaining
    reports of experience and side effects associated with the drug
    and make appropriate submissions to the FDA and b) timely
    advise the FDA if any marketed product fails to adhere to
    specifications established by the NDA or BLA internal
    manufacturing procedures.


 


    Pursuant to the Orphan Drug Act, a sponsor may request that the
    FDA designate a drug intended to treat a “rare disease or
    condition” as an “orphan drug”. The term
    “orphan drug” can refer to either a drug or biologic.
    A rare disease or condition is defined as one which affects less
    than 200,000 people in the United States, or which affects
    more than 200,000 people, but for which the cost of
    developing and making available the product is not expected to
    be recovered from sales of the product in the United States.
    Upon the approval of the first NDA or BLA for a drug designated
    as an orphan drug for a specified indication, the sponsor of
    that NDA or BLA is entitled to seven years of exclusive
    marketing rights in the United States for such drug or product
    containing the active ingredient for the same indication unless
    the sponsor cannot assure the availability of sufficient
    quantities of the drug to meet the needs of persons with the
    disease. However, orphan drug status is particular to the
    approved indication and does not prevent another company from
    seeking approval of other labeled indications. The period of
    orphan exclusivity is concurrent with any patent exclusivity
    that relates to the drug or biologic. Orphan drugs may also be
    eligible for federal income tax credits for costs associated
    with the drug’s development. Possible amendment of the
    Orphan Drug Act by the U.S. Congress and possible
    reinterpretation by the FDA has been discussed by regulators and
    legislators. FDA regulations reflecting certain definitions,
    limitations and procedures for orphan drugs initially went into
    effect in January 1993 and were amended in certain respects in
    1998. Therefore, there is no assurance as to the precise scope
    of protection that may be afforded by orphan drug status in the
    future or that the current level of exclusivity and tax credits
    will remain in effect. Moreover, even if we have an orphan drug
    designation for a particular use of a drug, there can be no
    assurance that another company also holding orphan drug
    designation will not receive approval prior to us for the same
    indication. If that were to happen, our applications for that
    indication could not be approved until the competing
    company’s seven-year period of exclusivity expired. Even if
    we are the first to obtain approval for the orphan drug
    indication, there are certain circumstances under which a
    competing product may be approved for the same indication during
    our seven-year period of exclusivity. First, particularly in the
    case of large molecule drugs or biologics, a question can be
    raised whether the competing product is really the “same
    drug” as that which was approved. In addition, even in
    cases in which two products appear to be the same drug, the
    agency may approve the second product based on a showing of
    clinical superiority compared to the first product.
    REVLIMID®
    has been granted orphan medicinal product designation by the EC
    for treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia following the
    favorable opinion of the EMEA’s Committee for Orphan
    Medicinal Products.


 


    Among the conditions for NDA or BLA approval is the requirement
    that the prospective manufacturer’s quality control and
    manufacturing procedures continually conform with the FDA’s
    current Good Manufacturing Practice, cGMP, regulations (which
    are regulations established by the FDA governing the
    manufacture, processing, packing, storage and testing of drugs
    and biologics intended for human use). In complying with cGMP,
    manufacturers must devote extensive time, money and effort in
    the area of production and quality control and quality assurance
    to maintain full technical compliance. Manufacturing facilities
    and company records are subject to periodic inspections by the
    FDA to ensure compliance. If a manufacturing facility is not in
    substantial compliance with these requirements, regulatory
    enforcement action may be taken by the FDA, which may include
    seeking an injunction against shipment of products from the
    facility and recall of products previously shipped from the
    facility.


 


    Under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and
    Cosmetic Act, products covered by approved NDAs or supplemental
    NDAs may be protected by periods of patent
    and/or
    non-patent exclusivity. During the exclusivity periods, the FDA
    is generally prevented from granting effective approval of an
    abbreviated NDA, or ANDA. Further, NDAs submitted under
    505(b)(2) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act may not reference
    data contained in the NDA for a product protected by an
    effective and unexpired exclusivity. ANDAs and 505(b)(2)
    applications are generally less burdensome than full NDAs in
    that, in lieu of new clinical data, the applications rely in
    whole, or in part, upon the safety and efficacy findings of the
    referenced approved drug in conjunction with bridging data,
    typically bioequivalence data. Upon the expiration



    
    10



Table of Contents




    of the applicable exclusivities, through passage of time or
    successful legal challenge, the FDA may grant effective approval
    of an ANDA for a generic drug, or may accept reference to a
    previously protected NDA in a 505(b)(2) application. Depending
    upon the scope of the applicable exclusivities, any such
    approval could be limited to certain formulations
    and/or
    indications/claims, i.e., those not covered by any outstanding
    exclusivities. While the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act provides
    for ANDA and 505(b)(2) abbreviated approval pathways for drugs
    submitted as NDAs and approved under section 505 of the
    Act, there are no similar provisions for biologics submitted as
    BLAs and approved under the Public Health Service, or PHS, Act.
    That is, there is currently no abbreviated application that
    would permit approval of a generic or “follow-on”
    biologic based on the Agency’s earlier approval of another
    manufacturer’s application under section 351 of the
    PHS Act.


 


    Failure to comply with applicable FDA regulatory requirements
    can result in enforcement actions such as warning letters,
    recalls or adverse publicity issued by the FDA or in legal
    actions such as seizures, injunctions, fines based on the
    equitable remedy of disgorgement, restitution and criminal
    prosecution.


 


    Approval procedures similar to those in the United States must
    be undertaken in virtually every other country comprising the
    market for our products before any such product can be
    commercialized in those countries. The approval procedure and
    the time required for approval vary from country to country and
    may involve additional testing. There can be no assurance that
    approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all. In
    addition, regulatory approval of drug and biologics pricing is
    required in most countries other than the United States. There
    can be no assurance that the resulting pricing of our products
    would be sufficient to generate an acceptable return to us.


 



    COMPETITION


 


    The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in which we
    compete are each highly competitive. Our competitors include
    major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, many of which
    have considerably greater financial, scientific, technical and
    marketing resources than us. We also experience competition in
    the development of our products and processes from universities
    and other research institutions and, in some instances, compete
    with others in acquiring technology from such sources.


 


    Competition in the pharmaceutical industry, and specifically in
    the oncology and immune-inflammatory areas being addressed by
    us, is particularly intense. Numerous pharmaceutical,
    biotechnology and generic companies have extensive anti-cancer
    and anti-inflammatory drug discovery, development and commercial
    resources. Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., Amgen Inc., Genentech,
    Inc., Sanofi-Aventis SA., Novartis AG, AstraZeneca PLC., Eli
    Lilly and Company, F. Hoffmann-LaRoche Ltd, Millennium
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Eisai Co., Ltd., Biogen Idec Inc., Merck
    and Co., Inc., Johnson and Johnson and Pfizer Inc. are among
    some of the companies researching and developing new compounds
    in the oncology, inflammation and immunology fields.


 


    The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have undergone,
    and are expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant
    technological change. Also, consolidation and competition are
    expected to intensify as technical advances in each field are
    achieved and become more widely known. In order to compete
    effectively, we will be required to continually upgrade and
    expand our scientific expertise and technology, identify and
    retain capable personnel and pursue scientifically feasible and
    commercially viable opportunities.


 


    Our competition will be determined in part by the indications
    and geographic markets for which our products are developed and
    ultimately approved by regulatory authorities. An important
    factor in competition will be the timing of market introduction
    of our or our competitors’ products. Accordingly, the
    relative speed with which we can develop products, complete
    clinical trials and regulatory approval processes, receive
    pricing and reimbursement in certain markets and supply
    commercial quantities of products to the market are expected to
    be important competitive factors. Competition among products
    approved for sale will be based, among other things, on product
    efficacy, safety, convenience, reliability, availability, price,
    third-party reimbursement and patent and non-patent exclusivity.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    SIGNIFICANT
    ALLIANCES


 


    From time to time we enter into strategic alliances with third
    parties whereby we either grant rights to certain of our
    compounds in exchange for rights to receive payments, or acquire
    rights to compounds owned by other pharmaceutical or
    biotechnology companies in exchange for obligations to make
    payments to the partnering companies. Payments either to or from
    third parties may be in the form of upfront payments, milestone
    payments contingent upon the achievement of pre-determined
    criteria
    and/or
    research and development funding. Under these arrangements, one
    of the parties may also purchase product and pay royalties on
    product sales. The following are our most significant alliances:


 


    NOVARTIS:  In April 2000, we entered
    into a development and license agreement with Novartis in which
    we granted to Novartis an exclusive worldwide license (excluding
    Canada) to further develop and market
    FOCALINtm
    and FOCALIN
    XRtm,
    the extended release drug formulation (d-methylphenidate, or
    d-MPH). We have retained the exclusive commercial rights to
    FOCALINtm
    IR and FOCALIN
    XRtm
    for oncology-related disorders. We also granted Novartis rights
    to all of our related intellectual property and patents,
    including new formulations of the currently marketed
    RITALIN®.
    Under the agreement, we have received upfront and regulatory
    achievement milestone payments totaling $55.0 million
    through December 31, 2007 and are entitled to additional
    payments upon attainment of certain other milestone events. We
    also sell
    FOCALINtm
    to Novartis and receive royalties on all of Novartis’ sales
    of FOCALIN
    XRtm
    and
    RITALIN®
    family of ADHD-related products.


 


    PHARMION:  In November 2001, we licensed
    to Pharmion Corporation exclusive rights relating to the
    development and commercial use of our intellectual property
    covering thalidomide and
    S.T.E.P.S®.
    Under the terms of the agreement, as amended in December 2004,
    we receive royalties of 8% of Pharmion’s net thalidomide
    sales in countries where Pharmion has received regulatory
    approval and
    S.T.E.P.S®
    licensing fees of 8% of net sales in all other licensed
    territories. In December 2004, following our acquisition of Penn
    T Limited in which, among other things, we acquired a product
    supply agreement to exclusively supply Pharmion with
    thalidomide, we entered into an amended thalidomide supply
    agreement whereby in exchange for a reduction in Pharmion’s
    purchase price to 15.5% of its net sales of thalidomide, we
    received a one-time payment of $77.0 million. Pursuant to a
    separate December 2004 agreement, we also received a one-time
    payment of $3.0 million in return for granting license
    rights to Pharmion to develop and market thalidomide in
    additional territories and eliminating certain of our license
    termination rights. Under the agreements, as amended, the
    territory licensed to Pharmion is for all countries other than
    the United States, Canada, Mexico, Japan and China, with the
    exception of Hong Kong. The agreements with Pharmion terminate
    upon the ten-year anniversary following receipt of the first
    regulatory approval for thalidomide in the United Kingdom.


 


    To support the further clinical development of thalidomide,
    Pharmion has also provided research funding under various
    agreements of approximately $16.0 million through
    December 31, 2007.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we held 1,939,598 shares of
    Pharmion common stock received in connection with the conversion
    of a five-year Senior Convertible Promissory Note and the
    exercise of warrants purchased in April 2003 under a Securities
    Purchase Agreement and the exercise of warrants received in
    connection with the November 2001 thalidomide and
    S.T.E.P.S®
    license agreement.


 


    On November 18, 2007, we entered into a merger agreement
    with Pharmion under which Pharmion will be acquired and become a
    wholly owned subsidiary of Celgene. The transaction will be
    accounted for as a purchase and we anticipate that the
    transaction will close in March 2008, subject to customary
    closing conditions including the approval of the acquisition by
    Pharmion stockholders. Refer to Note 2 “Proposed
    Merger with Pharmion Corporation” contained within the
    consolidated financial statements for additional information.


 


    GLAXOSMITHKLINE:  In March 2003, we
    entered into a supply and distribution agreement with GSK to
    distribute, promote and sell
    ALKERAN®
    (melphalan), a therapy approved by the FDA for the
    palliative treatment of multiple myeloma and carcinoma of the
    ovary. Under the terms of the agreement, we purchase
    ALKERAN®
    tablets and
    ALKERAN®
    for injection from GSK and distribute the products in the United
    States under the Celgene label. The agreement requires us to
    purchase certain minimum quantities each year under a



    
    12



Table of Contents




    take-or-pay
    arrangement. The agreement has been extended through
    March 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2007, the remaining
    minimum purchase requirements under the agreement totaled
    $38.2 million, including $30.5 million in 2008 and
    $7.7 million in 2009.


 



    MANUFACTURING


 


    We own and operate an FDA approved active pharmaceutical
    ingredient, or API, manufacturing facility in Zofingen,
    Switzerland. The API facility is used to produce
    REVLIMID®
    and
    THALOMID®
    API. We have contracted with third party manufacturing service
    providers in order to provide backup manufacturing capabilities.
    These manufacturing service providers manufacture API in
    accordance with our specifications and are required to meet the
    FDA’s and foreign regulatory authorities’ cGMP
    regulations and guidelines. Our backup API manufacturing service
    providers are Aptuit Inc. UK (previously Evotec) with respect to
    REVLIMID®
    and Aptuit Inc. with respect to
    THALOMID®.


 


    We have constructed a drug product manufacturing facility in
    Neuchatel, Switzerland to perform formulation, encapsulation,
    packaging, warehousing and distribution, and expect European and
    FDA approval in 2008. We maintain backup FDA drug product
    manufacturing service providers for the manufacture of
    REVLIMID®
    and
    THALOMID®.
    These drug product manufacturing service providers include Penn
    Pharmaceutical Ltd, Institute of Drug Technology Australia Ltd
    and OSG Norwich Pharmaceuticals. Our packaging service providers
    include Sharp Corporation for worldwide packaging, Norwich
    Pharmaceuticals and Cimex AG for US packaging and non US
    packaging respectively.


 


    The API for
    FOCALINtm
    and FOCALIN
    XRtm
    is currently obtained from two suppliers, Johnson Matthey Inc.
    and Siegfried USA Inc., and we rely on a single manufacturer,
    Mikart, Inc., for the tabletting and packaging of
    FOCALINtm
    finished product.


 


    CCT currently operates an FDA compliant facility for the
    recovery and storage of cordblood and placental stem cells for
    LifeBank USA. We are also implementing in-house capability for
    production of culture expanded placenta derived stem cells under
    GMP, to supply clinical studies of PDA001 and other future stem
    cell products.


 



    INTERNATIONAL
    OPERATIONS


 


    Our international headquarters are located in Neuchatel,
    Switzerland and in 2007, we completed construction of a drug
    product manufacturing facility to perform formulation,
    encapsulation, packaging, warehousing and distribution. We
    purchased an API manufacturing facility located in Zofingen,
    Switzerland which has the capability to produce multiple drug
    substances, expanding our global commercial manufacturing
    capabilities. We continue to expand our international
    regulatory, clinical and commercial infrastructure in various
    parts of the world.
    REVLIMID®
    has been granted approval by the EC, Swissmedic and Australian
    Therapeutic Goods Administration as a treatment for multiple
    myeloma who received at least one prior therapy.
    REVLIMID®
    has also been approved by the Canadian Therapeutic Products
    Directorate for treatment of patients with transfusion-dependent
    anemia due to low- or intermediate-1-risk MDS, associated with a
    deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional
    cytogenetic abnormalities.


 


    We granted Pharmion Corporation a license to expand the
    THALOMID®
    franchise in certain parts of the world, accelerating the
    establishment of
    THALOMID®
    as an important therapy in the international markets. In October
    2004, we acquired Penn T Limited, a supplier of
    THALOMID®.
    This acquisition has enabled us to manage the manufacturing for
    THALOMID®
    worldwide.


 



    SALES AND
    COMMERCIALIZATION


 


    We have a global pharmaceutical commercial organization that has
    considerable experience in the pharmaceutical industry, and many
    of our employees have experience with oncological and
    immunological products. We will continue to expand our sales and
    commercialization group to support products we develop to treat
    oncological and immunological diseases. We intend to market and
    sell the products we develop for indications with accessible
    patient populations. For products with indications involving
    larger patient



    
    13



Table of Contents




    populations, we may partner with other pharmaceutical companies.
    In addition, we are positioned to accelerate the expansion of
    these sales and marketing resources as appropriate to take
    advantage of product in-licensing and product acquisition
    opportunities.


 



    EMPLOYEES


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we had 1,685 full-time
    employees, 921 of whom were engaged primarily in research and
    development activities, 428 who were engaged in sales and
    commercialization activities and the remainder of which were
    engaged in executive and general and administrative activities.
    The number of international full-time employees included above
    has grown to 436 as of December 31, 2007. We also employ a
    number of part-time employees and maintain consulting
    arrangements with a number of researchers at various
    universities and other research institutions in Europe and the
    United States.


 



    FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS


 


    Certain statements contained or incorporated by reference in
    this Annual Report are forward-looking statements concerning our
    business, results of operations, economic performance and
    financial condition based on our current expectations.
    Forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and within the
    meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are included, for example, in the discussions about:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    strategy;




 



     
        • 

    
    new product discovery, development or product introduction;




 



     
        • 

    
    product manufacturing;




 



     
        • 

    
    product sales, royalties and contract revenues;




 



     
        • 

    
    expenses and net income;




 



     
        • 

    
    credit risk management;




 



     
        • 

    
    liquidity;




 



     
        • 

    
    asset and liability risk management; and




 



     
        • 

    
    operational and legal risks.





 


    These and other forward-looking statement are not guarantees of
    future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that
    could cause actual results to differ materially from those
    implied by such forward-looking statements. Given these risks
    and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance
    on any forward-looking statements.


 


    You can identify these forward-looking statements by their use
    of words such as “forecast,” “project,”
    “plan,” “strategy,” “intend,”
    “potential,” “outlook,” “target,”
    “seek,” “continue,” “believe,”
    “could,” “estimate,” “expect,”
    “may,” “probable,” “should,”
    “will” or other words of similar meaning in
    conjunction with, among other things, discussions of future
    operations, financial performance, our strategy for growth,
    product development, regulatory approval and market position.
    You also can identify them by the fact that they do not relate
    strictly to historical or current facts.


 


    Reference is made, in particular, to forward-looking statements
    regarding the results of current or pending clinical trials, our
    products’ ability to demonstrate efficacy or an acceptable
    safety profile, actions by the FDA, the financial conditions of
    suppliers including their solvency and ability to supply
    product, and other factors detailed in “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”.
    We note these factors as permitted by the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


 


    Except as required under the federal securities laws and the
    rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
    we disclaim and do not undertake any obligations to update or
    revise publicly any



    
    14



Table of Contents




    forward-looking statements in this report, whether as a result
    of new information, future events, changes in assumptions, or
    otherwise.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 



    We may
    experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating
    results.


 


    We have historically experienced, and may continue to
    experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating
    results. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many
    of which are outside our control, and may result in volatility
    of our stock price. Future operating results will depend on many
    factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    demand for our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    pricing decisions, and those of our competitors, including
    decisions to increase or decrease prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory approvals for our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    timing and levels of spending for research and development;
    sales and marketing;




 



     
        • 

    
    timing and levels of reimbursement from third-party payors for
    our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    timing and market acceptance of new product introductions by us
    and/or
    competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    development or expansion of business infrastructure in new
    clinical and geographic markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    acquisition of new products and companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    timing and recognition of certain research and development
    milestones and license fees;




 



     
        • 

    
    ability to control our costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.





 



    If we
    are unsuccessful in developing and commercializing our products,
    our business, financial condition, results of operations and
    liquidity could be materially adversely affected which could
    have a negative impact on the value of our
    securities.


 


    Many of our drug candidates are in the early or mid-stages of
    research and development and will require the commitment of
    substantial financial resources, extensive research,
    development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing
    scale-up and
    regulatory approval prior to being ready for sale. Moreover, our
    commercially available products may require additional studies
    with respect to approved indications as well as new indications
    pending approval. If it becomes too expensive to sustain our
    present commitment of resources on a long-term basis, we will be
    unable to continue certain necessary research and development
    activities. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our clinical
    testing will render satisfactory results, or that we will
    receive required regulatory approvals for our new products or
    new indications. If any of our products, even if developed and
    approved, cannot be successfully commercialized, our business,
    financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could
    be materially adversely affected which could have a negative
    impact on the value of our common stock or debt securities
    obligations.


 



    During
    the next several years, we will be very dependent on the
    continued commercial success of our primary products
    REVLIMID®
    and
    THALOMID®.


 


    During the next several years, the growth of our business will
    be largely dependent on the commercial success of
    REVLIMID®
    and our other products.
    REVLIMID®
    was approved by the FDA, EC, Swissmedic and Australia for
    treatment in combination with dexamethasone for multiple myeloma
    patients who have received at least one prior therapy. In
    addition,
    REVLIMID®
    was approved by the FDA and Canada for treatment of patients
    with transfusion-dependent anemia due to low- or
    intermediate-1-risk MDS associated with a deletion 5q
    cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional cytogenetic
    abnormalities. We do not have long-term data on the use of the
    product and cannot predict whether
    REVLIMID®
    will continue to gain the acceptance



    
    15



Table of Contents




    of regulators, physicians, patients and other key opinion
    leaders as a relatively safe and effective drug that has certain
    advantages as compared to existing or future therapies. We are
    also seeking to introduce
    REVLIMID®
    in additional international markets as well as obtaining
    approvals for additional indications both in the U.S. and
    internationally. A delay in gaining the requisite regulatory
    approvals could negatively impact our growth plans and the value
    of our common stock or debt securities obligations.


 


    THALOMID®
    in combination with dexamethasone was approved by FDA in May
    2006 for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed multiple
    myeloma. In addition,
    THALOMID®
    is currently approved as a therapy for the treatment of ENL,
    although the market for the use of
    THALOMID®
    in patients suffering from ENL is very small. If unexpected
    adverse experiences are reported in connection with the use of
    THALOMID®
    by patients, this could undermine physician and patient comfort
    with the product, could limit the commercial success of the
    product and could even impact the acceptance of our other
    products, including
    REVLIMID®.


 


    Our revenues and profits would be negatively impacted if adverse
    experiences were reported in connection with any of these two
    products or generic versions were to be approved and launched.
    See “We may not be able to protect our intellectual
    property and our products may be subject to generic
    competition” for additional discussion related to
    possible generic competition for
    THALOMID®.


 



    If our
    products are not accepted by the market, demand for our products
    will deteriorate or not materialize at all.


 


    It is necessary that
    REVLIMID®,
    THALOMID®,
    ALKERAN®,
    FOCALINtm
    and FOCALIN
    XRtm,
    and the
    RITALIN®
    family of drugs achieve and maintain market acceptance. A number
    of factors can render the degree of market acceptance of our
    products uncertain, including the products’ efficacy,
    safety and advantages, if any, over competing products, as well
    as the reimbursement policies of third-party payors, such as
    government and private insurance plans. In particular,
    thalidomide, when used by pregnant women, has resulted in
    serious birth defects, and the negative history associated with
    thalidomide and birth defects may decrease the market acceptance
    of
    THALOMID®.
    In addition, the stem cell products that we are attempting to
    develop through our Celgene Cellular Therapeutics subsidiary may
    represent substantial departures from established treatment
    methods and will compete with a number of traditional products
    and therapies which are now, or may be in the future,
    manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and
    biopharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, public attitudes may
    be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe, and
    stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or
    the medical community. If our products are not accepted by the
    market, demand for our products will deteriorate or not
    materialize at all.


 



    We
    have grown rapidly, and if we fail to adequately manage that
    growth our business could be adversely impacted.


 


    We have an aggressive growth plan that has included substantial
    and increasing investments in research and development, sales
    and marketing, and facilities. We plan to continue to grow and
    our plan has a number of risks, some of which we cannot control.
    For example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we will need to generate higher revenues to cover a higher level
    of operating expenses (including clinical trial costs, expenses
    associated with the regulatory approval process and
    commercialization of our products), and our ability to do so may
    depend on factors that we do not control;




 



     
        • 

    
    we will need to manage complexities associated with a larger and
    faster growing multinational organization; and




 



     
        • 

    
    we will need to accurately anticipate demand for the products we
    manufacture and maintain adequate manufacturing, marketing and
    distribution capacity, and our ability to do so may depend on
    factors that we do not control.





 



    If the
    third parties upon whom we rely fail to produce on a timely
    basis the encapsulation, finishing and packaging services in the
    volumes that we require or fail to meet quality standards and
    maintain 



    
    16



Table of Contents




    necessary licensure from regulatory authorities, we may be
    unable to meet demand for our products, potentially resulting in
    lost revenues.


 


    We have contracted with third party manufacturers to provide
    encapsulation, finishing services and packaging to meet our
    needs. We intend to continue to utilize third parties as needed
    to produce certain of our products on a commercial scale.


 


    The active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, for
    THALOMID®
    is primarily obtained from our Zofingen, Switzerland,
    manufacturing facility and from Aptuit, Inc. Two additional
    suppliers are currently progressing through the qualification
    process. With regard to drug product manufacturing, we rely on
    two manufacturing service providers, Penn Pharmaceuticals
    Services Limited and Institute of Drug Technology Australia
    Limited, for the formulation and encapsulation of the finished
    dosage form of
    THALOMID®
    capsules, and on one contract packager, Sharp Corporation, for
    the packaging of the final product.


 


    The API for
    REVLIMID®
    is manufactured primarily by our Zofingen, Switzerland,
    manufacturing facility and by Aptuit Inc. UK (previously
    Evotec). We have also contracted and registered two
    manufacturing service providers, Penn Pharmaceuticals Services
    Limited and OSG Norwich Pharmaceuticals, for the formulation and
    encapsulation of the finished dosage form of
    REVLIMID®
    capsules. Sharp and Norwich are the contractors approved for
    supplying the packaging for the final product in the
    U.S. and Sharp, located in the U.S., and Cimex AG located
    in Liesberg, Switzerland for the
    non-U.S. supply.


 


    The API for
    FOCALINtm
    is currently obtained from two suppliers, Johnson Matthey Inc.
    and Siegfried USA, Inc., and we rely on a single manufacturer,
    Mikart, Inc., for the tableting and packaging of
    FOCALINtm
    finished product. The API for FOCALIN
    XRtm
    is supplied by both Siegfried and Johnson Matthey Inc. on behalf
    of Novartis for the manufacture of FOCALIN
    XRtm.


 


    In all the countries where we sell our products, governmental
    regulations exist to define standards for manufacturing,
    packaging, labeling and storing. All of our suppliers of raw
    materials and contract manufacturers must comply with these
    regulations. Failure to do so could result in supply
    interruptions. In the United States, the FDA requires that all
    suppliers of pharmaceutical bulk material and all manufacturers
    of pharmaceuticals for sale in or from the United States achieve
    and maintain compliance with the FDA’s cGMP regulations and
    guidelines. Failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply
    with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being
    imposed on them or us, including fines, injunctions, civil
    penalties, disgorgement, suspension or withdrawal of approvals,
    license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating
    restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could
    significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products. In
    addition, before any product batch produced by our manufacturers
    can be shipped, it must conform to release specifications
    pre-approved by regulators for the content of the pharmaceutical
    product. If the operations of one or more of our manufacturers
    were to become unavailable for any reason, any required FDA
    review and approval of the operations of an alternative supplier
    could cause a delay in the manufacture of our products. If our
    outside manufacturers do not meet our requirements for quality,
    quantity or timeliness, or do not achieve and maintain
    compliance with all applicable regulations, demand for our
    products or our ability to continue supplying such products
    could substantially decline.


 



    We are
    in the process of establishing foreign marketing and
    distribution capabilities.


 


    We are establishing marketing and distribution capabilities in
    international markets with respect to our products. At the same
    time, we are in the process of obtaining necessary governmental
    and regulatory approvals to sell our products in certain
    countries. If we have not successfully completed and implemented
    adequate marketing and distribution support services upon our
    receipt of such approvals, our ability to effectively launch our
    products in these countries would be severely restricted. In
    addition, we have contracted with Ivers Lee Corporation, d/b/a
    Sharp, a specialty distributor, to distribute
    THALOMID®
    and
    REVLIMID®
    in the United States. If Sharp does not perform its obligations,
    our ability to distribute
    THALOMID®
    and
    REVLIMID®
    in the United States may be impacted for a limited period of
    time.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    We
    have entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Pharmion,
    subject to certain closing conditions, including the appropriate
    affirmative vote of Pharmion stockholders. The integration of
    Pharmion and other acquired businesses may present significant
    challenges to us.


 


    Achieving the anticipated benefits of our pending acquisition of
    Pharmion will depend in part upon whether we and Pharmion can
    integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner.
    In addition, we may acquire additional businesses from time to
    time. The integration of Pharmion and any future businesses that
    we may acquire involves a number of risks, including, but not
    limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    demands on management related to the increase in our size after
    the acquisition;




 



     
        • 

    
    the diversion of management’s attention from the management
    of daily operations to the integration of operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    higher integration costs than anticipated;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and
    practices, as well as in the assimilation of broad and
    geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in the integration of departments, systems,
    including accounting systems, technologies, books and records,
    and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards,
    controls, including internal control over financial reporting
    required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related
    procedures and policies.





 


    If we cannot successfully integrate Pharmion or other acquired
    businesses, we may experience material negative consequences to
    our business, financial condition or results of operations.
    Successful integration of Pharmion and other acquired businesses
    will depend on our ability to manage these operations, to
    realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by offerings
    and expanded geographic market coverage and, to some degree, to
    eliminate redundant and excess costs. Because of difficulties in
    combining geographically distant operations, we may not be able
    to achieve the benefits that we hope to achieve as a result of
    the merger with Pharmion or other acquired businesses.


 



    We may
    be unable to retain skilled personnel and maintain key
    relationships.


 


    The success of our business depends, in large part, on our
    continued ability to (i) attract and retain highly
    qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and
    marketing personnel, (ii) successfully integrate large
    numbers of new employees into our corporate culture, and
    (iii) develop and maintain important relationships with
    leading research and medical institutions and key distributors.
    Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is
    intense. In particular, the success of the combined operations
    after our pending acquisition of Pharmion will depend in part
    upon our ability to retain key employees of Pharmion. Key
    employees may depart because of issues relating to the
    difficulty of integration or accelerated retirement as a result
    of change in control severance provisions in their employment
    agreements with Pharmion.


 


    Among other benefits, we use stock options to attract and retain
    personnel. Stock option accounting rules require us to recognize
    all stock-based compensation costs as expenses. These or other
    factors could reduce the number of shares management and our
    board of directors grants under our stock option plans. We
    cannot be sure that we will be able to attract or retain skilled
    personnel or maintain key relationships, including key employees
    of Pharmion, or that the costs of retaining such personnel or
    maintaining such relationships will not materially increase.


 



    The
    hazardous materials we use in our research, development and
    other business operations could result in significant
    liabilities, which could exceed our insurance coverage and
    financial resources.


 


    We use certain hazardous materials in our research, development
    and general business activities. While we believe we are
    currently in substantial compliance with the federal, state and
    local laws and regulations



    
    18



Table of Contents




    governing the use of these materials, we cannot be certain that
    accidental injury or contamination will not occur. Any such
    accident or contamination could result in substantial
    liabilities that could exceed our insurance coverage and
    financial resources. Additionally, the cost of compliance with
    environmental and safety laws and regulations may increase in
    the future, requiring us to expend more financial resources
    either in compliance or in purchasing supplemental insurance
    coverage.


 



    The
    pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive government
    regulation which presents numerous risks to us.


 


    The discovery, preclinical development, clinical trials,
    manufacturing, marketing and labeling of pharmaceuticals and
    biologics are all subject to extensive regulation by numerous
    governmental authorities and agencies in the United States and
    other countries. If we or our contractors and collaborators are
    delayed in receiving, or are unable to obtain at all, necessary
    governmental approvals, we will be unable to effectively market
    our products.


 


    The testing, marketing and manufacturing of our products require
    regulatory approval, including approval from the FDA and, in
    some cases, from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
    or the EPA, or governmental authorities outside of the United
    States that perform roles similar to those of the FDA and EPA.
    Certain of our pharmaceutical products, such as
    FOCALINtm,
    fall under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 that requires
    authorization by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA,
    of the U.S. Department of Justice in order to handle and
    distribute these products. The regulatory approval process
    presents several risks to us:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In general, preclinical tests and clinical trials can take many
    years, and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and
    the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible
    to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent
    regulatory approval;




 



     
        • 

    
    Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the
    regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical or
    other data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure
    of the product to meet, a regulatory agency’s requirements
    for safety, efficacy and quality or, in the case of a product
    seeking an orphan drug indication, because another designee
    received approval first or receives approval of other labeled
    indications;




 



     
        • 

    
    Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to
    changes in regulatory agency policy, or the adoption of new
    regulations or legislation;




 



     
        • 

    
    The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may
    significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may
    be marketed and reimbursed and may impose significant
    limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions and
    contra-indications that could materially affect the sales and
    profitability of the drug;




 



     
        • 

    
    Pricing and reimbursement controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    Approved products, as well as their manufacturers, are subject
    to continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of previously
    unknown problems with these products or the failure to adhere to
    manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in
    restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their
    withdrawal from the market;




 



     
        • 

    
    Regulatory authorities and agencies of the United States or
    foreign governments may promulgate additional regulations
    restricting the sale of our existing and proposed products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Guidelines and recommendations published by various
    non-governmental organizations can reduce the use of our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Once a product receives marketing approval, we may not market
    that product for broader or different applications, and the FDA
    may not grant us approval with respect to separate product
    applications that represent extensions of our basic technology.
    In addition, the FDA may withdraw or modify existing approvals
    in a significant manner or promulgate additional regulations
    restricting the sale of our present






    
    19



Table of Contents




    or proposed products. The FDA may also request that we perform
    additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our
    existing or proposed products if we or others identify side
    effects after our products are on the market;


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Products, such as
    REVLIMID®,
    that are subject to accelerated approval can be subject to an
    expedited withdrawal if the post-marketing study commitments are
    not completed with due diligence, the post-marketing
    restrictions are not adhered to or are shown to be inadequate to
    assure the safe use of the drug, or evidence demonstrates that
    the drug is not shown to be safe and effective under its
    conditions of use. Additionally, promotional materials for such
    products are subject to enhanced surveillance, including
    pre-approval review of all promotional materials used within
    120 days following marketing approval and a requirement for
    the submissions 30 days prior to initial dissemination of
    all promotional materials disseminated after 120 days
    following marketing approval; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Our labeling and promotional activities relating to our products
    are regulated by the FDA and state regulatory agencies and, in
    some circumstances, by the DEA, and are subject to associated
    risks. If we fail to comply with FDA regulations prohibiting
    promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for
    which marketing clearance has not been obtained, the FDA, or the
    Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and
    Human Services or the state Attorneys General could bring an
    enforcement action against us that could inhibit our marketing
    capabilities as well as result in significant penalties.





 


    Additionally, the FDA approval process would allow for the
    approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application for a generic
    version of our approved products upon the expiration, through
    passage of time or successful legal challenge, of relevant
    patent or non-patent exclusivity protection. ANDAs and 505(b)(2)
    applications are generally less burdensome than full NDAs in
    that, in lieu of clinical data, these applications rely in
    whole, or in part, upon the safety and efficacy findings of the
    referenced approved product in conjunction with bridging data,
    typically bioequivalence data.


 


    The FDA’s Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research
    currently regulates under 21 CFR Parts 1270 and 1271 human
    tissue intended for transplantation that is recovered,
    processed, stored or distributed by methods that do not change
    tissue function or characteristics and that is not currently
    regulated as a human drug, biological product or medical device.
    Certain stem cell-related activities fall within this category.
    Part 1270 requires tissue establishments to screen and test
    donors, to prepare and follow written procedures for the
    prevention of the spread of communicable disease and to maintain
    records. It also provides for inspection by the FDA of tissue
    establishments. Part 1271 requires human cells, tissue and
    cellular and tissue-based product establishments (HCT/Ps) to
    register with the agency and list their HCT/Ps.


 


    Currently, we are required to be, and are, licensed to operate
    in New York, New Jersey, Maryland and Delaware, four of the
    states in which we currently collect placentas and umbilical
    cord blood for our allogeneic and private stem cell banking
    businesses, and we are in process of obtaining a license in the
    state of California. If other states adopt similar licensing
    requirements, we would need to obtain such licenses to continue
    operating. If we are delayed in receiving, or are unable to
    obtain at all, necessary licenses, we will be unable to provide
    services in those states and this would impact negatively on our
    revenues.


 



    We may
    not be able to protect our intellectual property and our
    products may be subject to generic competition.


 


    Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and
    enforce patents, protect trade secrets, obtain licenses to
    technology owned by third parties and to conduct our business
    without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The
    patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms,
    including ours, can be uncertain and involve complex legal and
    factual questions.


 


    Under the current U.S. patent laws, patent applications
    filed in the United States on or before November 28, 2000
    are maintained in secrecy until patents issue. Patent
    applications filed in the U.S. on or after
    November 29, 2000 are not published until approximately
    18 months after their earliest claimed priority date, and
    publication of discoveries in the scientific and patent
    literature often lag behind actual discoveries.



    
    20



Table of Contents




    Thus, we may discover sometime in the future that we, or the
    third parties from whom we have licensed patents or patent
    applications, were not the first to make
    and/or file
    the inventions covered by the patents and patent applications in
    which we have or seek rights. In the event that a third party
    has also filed a patent application for any of the inventions
    claimed in our patents or patent applications, or those we have
    licensed-in, we could become involved in an interference
    proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark
    Office, or the PTO, to determine priority of invention or an
    opposition proceeding in other places such as Europe. Such an
    interference or opposition could result in the loss of an issued
    U.S. or foreign patent, respectively, or loss of any
    opportunity to secure U.S. patent protection for that
    invention. Even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us, such
    proceedings could result in substantial cost and delay to us and
    limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.


 


    In addition, the coverage sought in a patent application may not
    be obtained or may be significantly reduced before the patent is
    issued. Consequently, if our pending applications, or pending
    application that we have licensed-in from third parties, do not
    result in the issuance of patents or if any patents that are
    issued do not provide significant proprietary protection or
    commercial advantage, our ability to sustain the necessary level
    of intellectual property rights upon which our success depends
    may be restricted.


 


    Moreover, different countries have different procedures for
    obtaining patents, and patents issued in different countries
    provide different degrees of protection against the use of a
    patented invention by others. Therefore, if the issuance to us
    or our licensors, in a given country, of a patent covering an
    invention is not followed by the issuance in other countries of
    patents covering the same invention, or if any judicial
    interpretation of the validity, enforceability or scope of the
    claims in a patent issued in one country is not similar to the
    interpretation given to the corresponding patent issued in
    another country, our ability to protect our intellectual
    property in other countries may be limited.


 


    Furthermore, even if our patent applications, or those we have
    licensed-in, are issued, our competitors may still challenge the
    scope, validity or enforceability of such patents in court,
    requiring us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly
    litigation. Alternatively, our competitors may be able to design
    around such patents and compete with us using the resulting
    alternative technology. If any of our issued or licensed patents
    are infringed, we may not be successful in enforcing our or our
    licensor’s intellectual property rights or defending the
    validity or enforceability of our issued patents and
    subsequently not be able to develop or market applicable product
    exclusively.


 


    We rely upon unpatented proprietary and trade secret technology
    that we try to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements
    with our collaborative partners, employees, consultants, outside
    scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other
    advisors. If these agreements are breached, we may not have
    adequate remedies for any such breach. Despite precautions taken
    by us, others may obtain access to or independently develop our
    proprietary technology or such technology may be found to be
    non-proprietary or not a trade secret.


 


    Our right to practice the inventions claimed in certain patents
    that relate to
    THALOMID®
    arises under licenses granted to us by others, including The
    Rockefeller University and Children’s Medical Center
    Corporation, or CMCC. In addition to these patents, which relate
    to thalidomide, we have also licensed from CMCC certain patents
    relating to thalidomide analogs. In December 2002, we entered
    into an exclusive license agreement with CMCC and EntreMed Inc.
    pursuant to which CMCC exclusively licensed to us certain
    patents and patent applications that relate to analogs,
    metabolites, precursors and hydrolysis products of thalidomide,
    and all stereoisomers thereof. Our license under the December
    2002 agreement is worldwide and royalty-bearing, and we have
    complete control over the prosecution of the licensed
    thalidomide analog patent rights. Under this December 2002
    agreement, we are obligated to comply with certain milestones
    for a
    REVLIMID®
    approval and royalties with respect to sales of
    REVLIMID®.
    The December 2002 agreement also grants us an option for a
    certain time period to inventions in the field of thalidomide
    analogs that may be developed at CMCC in the laboratory of
    Dr. Robert D’Amato, pursuant to the terms and
    conditions of a separate Sponsored Research Agreement negotiated
    between CMCC and us.


 


    Further, while we believe these confidentiality agreements and
    license agreements to be valid and enforceable, our rights under
    these agreements may not continue or disputes concerning these
    agreements may



    
    21



Table of Contents




    arise. If any of the foregoing should occur, we may be unable to
    rely upon our unpatented proprietary and trade secret
    technology, or we may be unable to use the third-party
    proprietary technology we have licensed-in, either of which may
    prevent or hamper us from successfully pursuing our business.


 


    It is also possible that third-party patent applications and
    patents could issue with claims that broadly cover certain
    aspects of our business or of the subject matter claimed in the
    patents or patent applications owned or optioned by us or
    licensed to us, which may limit our ability to conduct our
    business or to practice under our patents, and may impede our
    efforts to obtain meaningful patent protection of our own. If
    patents are issued to third parties that contain competitive or
    conflicting claims, we may be legally prohibited from pursuing
    research, development or commercialization of potential products
    or be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop
    or obtain alternative technology. We may be legally prohibited
    from using patented technology, may not be able to obtain any
    license to the patents and technologies of third parties on
    acceptable terms, if at all, or may not be able to obtain or
    develop alternative technologies. Consequently, if we cannot
    successfully defend against any patent infringement suit that
    may be brought against us by a third-party, we may lose the
    ability to continue to conduct our business as we presently do,
    or to practice certain subject matter delineated by patent
    claims that we have exclusive rights to, whether by ownership or
    by license, and that may have a material adverse effect on our
    business.


 


    We rely upon trademarks and service marks to protect our rights
    to the intellectual property used in our business.


 



    Litigation
    on a variety of matters may subject us to significant legal
    expenses and liability.


 


    From time to time, we may be subject to litigation on a variety
    of matters, including, as discussed above, intellectual
    property, licensing arrangements with other persons and product
    liability. Litigation requires the expenditure of significant
    time and resources, and is inherently unpredictable. If any
    litigation were to have an unanticipated adverse result, there
    could be a material impact on our results of operations or
    financial position.


 



    The
    pharmaceutical and biotech industry is highly competitive and
    subject to rapid and significant technological
    change.


 


    The pharmaceutical industry in which we operate is highly
    competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological
    change. Our present and potential competitors include major
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty
    pharmaceutical firms, including but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Amgen, which potentially competes with our TNF-α and kinase
    inhibitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Novartis, which potentially competes with our
    IMiDs®
    compounds and kinase programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Bristol Myers Squibb Co., which potentially competes in clinical
    trials with our
    IMiDs®
    compounds and TNF-α inhibitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Genentech, Inc., which potentially competes in clinical trials
    with our
    IMiDs®
    compounds and TNF-α inhibitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    AstraZeneca plc, which potentially competes in clinical trials
    with our
    IMiDs®
    compounds and TNF-α inhibitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Johnson & Johnson,
    which compete with
    REVLIMID®
    and
    THALOMID®
    in the treatment of multiple myeloma and in clinical trials with
    our
    IMiDs®
    compounds;




 



     
        • 

    
    Pfizer Inc., which potentially competes in clinical trials with
    our kinase inhibitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Biogen Idec Inc. and Genzyme Corporation, both of which are
    generally developing drugs that address the oncology and
    immunology markets; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Johnson & Johnson, which potentially competes with
    certain of our proprietary programs including our oral
    anti-inflammatory programs.






    
    22



Table of Contents



 


    Many of these companies have considerably greater financial,
    technical and marketing resources than we do. We also experience
    competition from universities and other research institutions,
    and in some instances, we compete with others in acquiring
    technology from these sources. The pharmaceutical industry has
    undergone, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and
    significant technological change, and we expect competition to
    intensify as technical advances in the field are made and become
    more widely known. The development of products, including
    generics, or processes by our competitors with significant
    advantages over those that we are seeking to develop could cause
    the marketability of our products to stagnate or decline.


 



    Sales
    of our products are dependent on third-party
    reimbursement.


 


    Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to
    which the costs of our products will be paid by health
    maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar health
    care management organizations, or reimbursed by government
    health administration authorities, private health coverage
    insurers and other third-party payors. These health care
    management organizations and third-party payors are increasingly
    challenging the prices charged for medical products and
    services. Additionally, the containment of health care costs has
    become a priority of federal and state governments, and the
    prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. If these
    organizations and third-party payors do not consider our
    products to be cost-effective compared to other available
    therapies, they may not reimburse providers or consumers of our
    products or, if they do, the level of reimbursement may not be
    sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable
    basis.


 



    Changes
    in our effective income tax rate could impact our
    earnings.


 


    Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our
    effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not
    limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, the accounting
    for stock options and other share-based payments, changes in tax
    laws and rates, future levels of research and development
    spending, changes in accounting standards, future levels of
    capital expenditures, changes in the mix of earnings in the
    various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, the outcome of
    IRS exams and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. The
    impact on our income tax provision resulting from the
    above-mentioned factors may be significant and could have an
    impact on our results of operations.


 



    Our
    operations may be impacted by currency fluctuations that may
    cause our earnings to fluctuate.


 


    Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against
    foreign currencies could impact our earnings. We anticipate
    utilizing foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign
    currency risk and not to engage in currency speculation. We
    would use these forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted
    transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Our hedging
    efforts would reduce but not eliminate our anticipated exposure
    to currency fluctuations. Any significant foreign exchange rate
    fluctuations within a short period of time could still adversely
    affect our financial condition and results of operations.


 



    We may
    experience an adverse market reaction if we are unable to meet
    our financial reporting obligations.


 


    As our Company continues to expand at a rapid pace, the
    development of new and improvements to existing automated
    systems will remain an ongoing priority. During this expansion
    period, our internal control over financial reporting may not
    prevent or detect misstatements in our financial reporting. Such
    misstatements may result in litigation
    and/or
    negative publicity and possibly cause an adverse market reaction
    that may negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our
    common stock or debt securities obligations.


 



    The
    price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may
    make it difficult for you to sell the common stock when you want
    or at prices you find attractive.


 


    There has been significant volatility in the market prices for
    publicly traded shares of biopharmaceutical companies, including
    ours. We expect that the market price of our common stock will
    continue to fluctuate. The
    intra-day
    price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $75.44 per
    share to a low of $41.26 per share in 2007. On December 31,
    2007, our common stock closed at a price of $46.21 per share.
    The price of



    
    23



Table of Contents




    our common stock may not remain at or exceed current levels. The
    following key factors may have an adverse impact on the market
    price of our common stock:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    results of our clinical trials or adverse events associated with
    our marketed products;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements of technical or product developments by our
    competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks;




 



     
        • 

    
    market conditions generally;




 



     
        • 

    
    governmental regulation;




 



     
        • 

    
    new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings;




 



     
        • 

    
    health care legislation;




 



     
        • 

    
    public announcements regarding medical advances in the treatment
    of the disease states that we are targeting;




 



     
        • 

    
    patent or proprietary rights developments;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in pricing and third-party reimbursement policies for
    our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in our operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    the outcome of litigation involving our products or processes
    related to production and formulation of those products or uses
    of those products;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition;




 



     
        • 

    
    investor reaction to announcements regarding business or product
    acquisitions.





 


    The market price of our common stock may also decline as a
    result of the pending acquisition of Pharmion if the integration
    with Pharmion is unsuccessful or takes longer than expected; the
    perceived benefits of the merger are not achieved as rapidly as
    anticipated or, to the extent anticipated, by financial analysts
    or investors; or the effect of the merger on our financial
    results is not consistent with the expectations of financial
    analysts or investors.


 


    In addition, the stock market in general and the biotechnology
    sector in particular has experienced extreme volatility that has
    often been unrelated to the operating performance of a
    particular company. These broad market fluctuations may
    adversely affect the market price of our common stock.


 



    The
    number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale
    could adversely affect the market price of our common
    stock.


 


    Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or debt
    or other securities convertible into common stock could
    adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of
    December 31, 2007, there were outstanding stock options and
    warrants for 33,096,086 shares of common stock, of which
    22,320,094 were currently vested and exercisable at an exercise
    price between $0.04 per share and $73.55 per share, with a
    weighted average exercise price of $18.97 per share. In
    addition, in June 2003, we issued $400.0 million of
    unsecured convertible notes that are currently convertible into
    16,227,441 shares of our common stock at the conversion
    price of $12.1125. These notes will mature in June 2008. The
    conversion of some or all of these notes will dilute the
    ownership interest of our stockholders. In addition, we will
    issue between 24,000,000 and 32,000,000 shares of our
    common stock in the merger, all of which may be immediately
    resold.


 



    Our
    shareholder rights plan and certain charter and by-law
    provisions may deter a third-party from acquiring us and may
    impede the stockholders’ ability to remove and replace our
    management or board of directors.


 


    Our board of directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan,
    the purpose of which is to protect stockholders against
    unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer
    a fair price to all of our



    
    24



Table of Contents




    stockholders. The rights plan may have the effect of dissuading
    a potential acquirer from making an offer for our common stock
    at a price that represents a premium to the then current trading
    price.


 


    Our board of directors has the authority to issue, at any time,
    without further stockholder approval, up to
    5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the
    price, rights, privileges and preferences of those shares. An
    issuance of preferred stock could discourage a third-party from
    acquiring a majority of our outstanding voting stock.
    Additionally, our board of directors has adopted certain
    amendments to our by-laws intended to strengthen the
    board’s position in the event of a hostile takeover
    attempt. These provisions could impede the stockholders’
    ability to remove and replace our management
    and/or board
    of directors.


 


    Furthermore, we are subject to the provisions of
    Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an
    anti-takeover law, which may also dissuade a potential acquirer
    of our common stock.


 



    AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION


 


    Our current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q
    and Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K
    are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
    Exchange Commission, or SEC, and all such reports and amendments
    to such reports filed have been and will be made available, free
    of charge, through our website
    (http://www.celgene.com)
    as soon as reasonably practicable after such filing. Such
    reports will remain available on our website for at least
    12 months. The contents of our website are not incorporated
    by reference into this Annual Report. The public may read and
    copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s
    Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NW,
    Washington, D.C. 20549.


 


    The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
    Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains an Internet site
    (http://www.sec.gov)
    that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
    other information regarding issuers that file electronically
    with the SEC.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B