Item 1A. Risk Factors" and "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." We
note these factors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995.

Except as required under the federal securities laws and the rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, we disclaim and do not
undertake any obligations to update or revise publicly any forward-looking
statements in this report, whether as a result of new information, future
events, changes in assumptions, or otherwise.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

WE MAY EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS.

We have historically experienced, and expect to continue for the foreseeable
future to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating
results. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are
outside our control, and may result in volatility of our stock price. Future
operating results will depend on many factors, including:

      o     demand for our products;

      o     our pricing decisions, and those of our competitors, including
            decisions to increase or decrease prices;

      o     regulatory approvals for our products;

      o     the timing and level of research and development and sales and
            marketing, including product launch costs;

      o     the timing and level of reimbursement from third-party payors for
            our products;

      o     the timing of the introduction and market acceptance of new products
            by us or competing companies;

      o     the development or expansion of business infrastructure in new
            clinical and geographic markets;

      o     the acquisition of new products and companies;

      o     tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate;

      o     the timing and recognition of certain research and development
            milestones and license fees;

      o     our ability to control our costs; and

      o     fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.


                                       18


IF WE ARE UNSUCCESSFUL IN DEVELOPING AND COMMERCIALIZING OUR PRODUCTS, OUR
BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND LIQUIDITY COULD BE
MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED WHICH COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE VALUE OF
OUR SECURITIES.

Many of our drug candidates are in the early or mid-stages of research and
development and will require the commitment of substantial financial resources,
extensive research, development, preclinical testing, clinical trials,
manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval prior to being ready for sale.
Moreover, our commercially available products may require additional studies
with respect to approved indications as well as new indications pending
approval. If it becomes too expensive to sustain our present commitment of
resources on a long-term basis, we will be unable to continue certain necessary
research and development activities. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our
clinical testing will render satisfactory results, or that we will receive
required regulatory approvals for our new products or new indications. If any of
our products, even if developed and approved, cannot be successfully
commercialized, our business, financial condition, results of operations and
liquidity could be materially adversely affected which could have a negative
impact on the value of our common stock or debt securities obligations.

DURING THE NEXT SEVERAL YEARS, WE WILL BE VERY DEPENDENT ON THE COMMERCIAL
SUCCESS OF REVLIMID(R), THALOMID(R), ALKERAN(R), FOCALIN(TM) AND FOCALIN XR(TM).

At our present and anticipated level of operations, we may not be able to
maintain profitability without continued growth in our revenues. The growth of
our business during the next several years will be largely dependent on the
commercial success of REVLIMID(R) and our other products. REVLIMID(R) was
approved by the FDA on December 27, 2005 for the treatment of certain
myelodysplastic syndromes, or MDS, associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic
abnormality. REVLIMID(R) in combination with dexamethasone was approved by the
FDA in June 2006 for treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have
received at least one prior therapy. REVLIMID(R) is distributed primarily
through contracted pharmacies under the RevAssist(R) program, which is a
proprietary risk-management distribution program tailored specifically to help
ensure the safe use of REVLIMID(R). We do not have long-term data on the use of
the product and cannot predict whether REVLIMID(R) will gain widespread
acceptance, which will mostly depend on the continued acceptance of regulators,
physicians, patients and other key opinion leaders as a relatively safe and
effective drug that has certain advantages as compared to existing or future
therapies. In addition, some of our products compete with one another as
therapies designed to treat cancer. For example, market acceptance of
REVLIMID(R) may result to the detriment of THALOMID(R) and ALKERAN(R). We are
also seeking to market REVLIMID(R) in Europe as WELL as for other indications in
the United States. A delay in gaining the requisite regulatory approvals could
negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our common stock or debt
securities obligations.

THALOMID(R) in combination with dexamethasone was approved by FDA in May 2006
for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. In
addition, THALOMID(R) is currently approved as a therapy for the treatment of
erythema nodosum leprosum, or ENL, although the market for the use of
THALOMID(R) in patients suffering from ENL is very small. If adverse experiences
are reported in connection with the use of THALOMID(R) by patients, this could
undermine physician and patient comfort with the product, could limit the
commercial success of the product and could even impact the acceptance of our
other products, including REVLIMID(R). Also, we are dependent upon sales of
ALKERAN(R), which we license from GSK, and royalties baSED on Novartis' sales of
FOCALIN XR(TM), which we cannot directly impact.

Our revenues and profits would be negatively impacted if generic versions of any
of these products were to be approved and launched. See "WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND OUR PRODUCTS MAY BE SUBJECT TO GENERIC
competition" in this Item 1A with respect to an Abbreviated New


                                       19


Drug Application, or ANDA, for a generic filing by Barr Laboratories, Inc.
seeking permission to market generic versions of THALOMID(R).

IF OUR PRODUCTS ARE NOT ACCEPTED BY THE MARKET, DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS WILL
DETERIORATE OR NOT MATERIALIZE AT ALL.

It is necessary that our and our distribution partners' products, including
REVLIMID(R), THALOMID(R), ALKERAN(R), FOCALIN(TM) anD FOCALIN XR(TM), and the
RITALIN(R) family of drugs achieve and maintain market acceptance. A number of
factors can render the degree of market acceptance of our products uncertain,
including the products' efficacy, safety and advantages, if any, over competing
products, as well as the reimbursement policies of third-party payors, such as
government and private insurance plans. In particular, thalidomide, when used by
pregnant women, has resulted in serious birth defects, and the negative history
associated with thalidomide and birth defects may decrease the market acceptance
of THALOMID(R). In addition, the stem cell products that we are attempting to
develop through our Celgene Cellular Therapeutics subsidiary may represent
substantial departures from established treatment methods and will compete with
a number of traditional drugs and therapies which are now, or may be in the
future, manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical
companies. Furthermore, public attitudes may be influenced by claims that stem
cell therapy is unsafe, and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the
public or the medical community. If our products are not accepted by the market,
demand for our products will deteriorate or not materialize at all.

WE HAVE GROWN RAPIDLY, AND IF WE FAIL TO ADEQUATELY MANAGE THAT GROWTH OUR
BUSINESS COULD BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED.

We have an aggressive growth plan that has included substantial and increasing
investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and facilities. We
plan to continue to grow and our plan has a number of risks, some of which we
cannot control. For example:

      o     we will need to generate higher revenues to cover a higher level of
            operating expenses (including clinical trial costs, expenses
            associated with the regulatory approval process and
            commercialization of our products), and our ability to do so may
            depend on factors that we do not control;

      o     we will need to assimilate new staff members;

      o     we will need to manage complexities associated with a larger and
            faster growing multinational organization; and

      o     we will need to accurately anticipate demand for the products we
            manufacture and maintain adequate manufacturing, marketing and
            distribution capacity, and our ability to do so may depend on
            factors that we do not control;

IF THE THIRD PARTIES UPON WHOM WE RELY FAIL TO PRODUCE ON A TIMELY BASIS THE API
OR ENCAPSULATION, FINISHING AND PACKAGING SERVICES IN THE VOLUMES THAT WE
REQUIRE OR FAIL TO MEET QUALITY STANDARDS AND MAINTAIN NECESSARY LICENSURE FROM
REGULATORY AUTHORITIES, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MEET DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS,
POTENTIALLY RESULTING IN LOST REVENUES.

We have contracted with third party manufacturers to supply API to meet our
needs, and with third party manufacturing service providers to provide
encapsulation and finishing services in accordance with our


                                       20


specifications, and with a third party contract packager to package the final
product. We intend to continue to utilize third parties as needed to produce
certain of our products on a commercial scale.

The active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, for THALOMID(R) is obtained from
Aptuit, Inc., which recently acquired Eagle Picher Pharmaceutical Services, a
Division of Eagle-Picher Incorporated. We currently have adequate supplies of
API for THALOMID(R) on hand to support our projected long-term requirements and
do not believe that the acquisition of Eagle-Picher by Aptuit will result in any
supply disruptions for the foreseeable future. In addition, a second supplier is
currently being qualified. With regard to drug product manufacturing, we rely on
two manufacturing service providers, Penn Pharmaceuticals Services Limited and
Institute of Drug Technology Australia Limited, for the formulation and
encapsulation of the finished dosage form of THALOMID(R) capsules, and on one
contract packager, Sharp Corporation, for the packaging of the final product.

The API for REVLIMID(R) is manufactured by our Zofingen, Switzerland,
manufacturing facility purchased in December 2006 from Siegfried and by Evotec
OAI Limited. We have contracted and registered two manufacturing service
providers, OSG Norwich Pharmaceuticals and Penn Pharmaceuticals Services
Limited, for the formulation and encapsulation of the finished dosage form of
REVLIMID(R) capsules, and one contract packager, Sharp Corporation, for the
packaging of the final product.

The API for FOCALIN(TM) is currently obtained from two suppliers, Johnson
Matthey Inc. and Siegfried USA, Inc., and we rely on a single manufacturer,
Mikart, Inc., for the tableting and packaging of FOCALIN(TM) finished product.
We obtain the API for FOCALIN XR(TM) from Johnson Matthey Inc., on behalf of
Novartis for the manufacture of FOCALIN XR(TM) finished product.

In all the countries where we sell our products, governmental regulations exist
to define standards for manufacturing, packaging, labeling and storing. All of
our suppliers of raw materials and contract manufacturers must comply with these
regulations. Failure to do so could result in supply interruptions. In the
United States, the FDA requires that all suppliers of pharmaceutical bulk
material and all manufacturers of pharmaceuticals for sale in or from the United
States achieve and maintain compliance with the FDA's cGMP regulations and
guidelines. Failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with applicable
regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on them or us, including
fines, injunctions, civil penalties, disgorgement, suspension or withdrawal of
approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating
restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and
adversely affect supplies of our products. In addition, before any product batch
produced by our manufacturers can be shipped, it must conform to release
specifications pre-approved by regulators for the content of the pharmaceutical
product. If the operations of one or more of our manufacturers were to become
unavailable for any reason, any required FDA review and approval of the
operations of an alternative supplier could cause a delay in the manufacture of
our products. If our outside manufacturers do not meet our requirements for
quality, quantity or timeliness, or do not achieve and maintain compliance with
all applicable regulations, demand for our products or our ability to continue
supplying such products could substantially decline.

WE HAVE LIMITED FOREIGN MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION CAPABILITIES.

We have limited marketing and distribution capabilities in countries other than
the United States with respect to our products. We are currently expanding our
infrastructure in these foreign countries to provide supportive marketing and
distribution services. At the same time, we are in the process of obtaining
necessary governmental and regulatory approvals to sell our products in such
foreign jurisdictions. If we have not successfully completed and implemented
adequate marketing and distribution support services upon our receipt of such
approvals, our ability to effectively launch our products in these foreign
jurisdictions would be severely restricted. In addition, we have contracted with


                                       21


Ivers Lee Corporation, d/b/a Sharp, a specialty distributor, to distribute
THALOMID(R) and REVLIMID(R) in the United States. If Sharp does not perform its
obligations, our ability to distribute THALOMID(R) and REVLIMID(R) in the United
States may be impacted for a limited period of time.

WE RECEIVE SIGNIFICANT REVENUES FROM COLLABORATIONS AND MAY BE DEPENDENT ON
COLLABORATIONS AND LICENSES WITH THIRD PARTIES.

Our ability to fully commercialize our preclinical and clinical-stage pipeline,
if developed, may depend to some extent upon our entering into collaborations
with other pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies with the requisite
experience and financial and other resources to obtain regulatory approvals and
to manufacture and market such products. Our collaborations and licenses include
an exclusive license (excluding Canada) to Novartis for the development and
commercialization of FOCALIN(TM) and FOCALIN XR(TM); an agreement with Pharmion
Corporation to expand the THALOMID(R) franchise internationally; and an
agreement with GSK enabling us to distribute, promote and sell ALKERAN(R). Our
present and future arrangements may be jeopardized if any or all of the
following occur:

      o     we are not able to enter into additional joint ventures or other
            arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all;

      o     our joint ventures or other arrangements do not result in a
            compatible working relationship;

      o     our partners change their business priorities, fail to perform as
            agreed upon or experience financial difficulties that disrupt
            necessary business operations;

      o     our joint ventures or other arrangements do not lead to the
            successful development and commercialization of any products;

      o     we are unable to obtain or maintain proprietary rights or licenses
            to technology or products developed in connection with our joint
            ventures or other arrangements; or

      o     we are unable to preserve the confidentiality of any proprietary
            rights or information developed in connection with our joint
            ventures or other arrangements.

WE MAY CONTINUE TO MAKE STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS OF OTHER COMPANIES BUSINESSES OR
PRODUCTS AND THESE ACQUISITIONS INTRODUCE SIGNIFICANT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES,
INCLUDING RISKS RELATED TO INTEGRATING THE ACQUIRED BUSINESSES AND PRODUCTS AND
TO ACHIEVING BENEFITS FROM THE ACQUISITIONS.

To take advantage of external growth opportunities, we have made, and may
continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and
uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the difficulty in
integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and
effective manner; (2) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost
savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (3) the risk that the technologies
acquired do not evolve as anticipated; (4) contracts, agreements, assets and
liabilities are not as represented; (5) the potential loss of key employees of
the acquired businesses; (6) the risk of diverting the attention of senior
management from our other operations; (7) the risks of entering new markets in
which we have limited experience; (8) difficulties in expanding information
technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired
businesses; (9) future impairments of goodwill and other intangibles of an
acquired business; and, (10) the impact that possible in-process research and
development charges may have on future earnings.

Many acquisition candidates in the biopharmaceuticals industry carry high price
to earnings valuations. As a result, acquiring a business that has a high
valuation may be dilutive to our earnings, especially when the acquired business
has little or no revenue.


                                       22


Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in connection
with a transaction in the form of change-in-control agreements, acceleration of
stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity-based compensation
rights. To retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we may
offer additional, sometimes costly, retention incentives.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO RETAIN SKILLED PERSONNEL AND MAINTAIN KEY RELATIONSHIPS.

The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to
(i) attract and retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing
and sales and marketing personnel, (ii) successfully integrate large numbers of
new employees into our corporate culture, and (iii) develop and maintain
important relationships with leading research and medical institutions and key
distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is
intense.

Among other benefits, we use stock options to attract and retain personnel. In
addition, changes in stock option accounting rules require us to recognize all
stock-based compensation costs as expenses. These or other factors could reduce
the number of shares management and our board of directors choose to grant under
our stock option plans. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract or
retain skilled personnel or maintain key relationships or that the costs of
retaining such personnel or maintaining such relationships will not materially
increase.

THE HAZARDOUS MATERIALS WE USE IN OUR RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER BUSINESS
OPERATIONS COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT LIABILITIES, WHICH COULD EXCEED OUR
INSURANCE COVERAGE AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES.

We use certain hazardous materials in our research, development and general
business activities. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance
with the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use of
these materials, we cannot be certain that accidental injury or contamination
will not occur. Any such accident or contamination could result in substantial
liabilities that could exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources.
Additionally, the cost of compliance with environmental and safety laws and
regulations may increase in the future, requiring us to expend more financial
resources either in compliance or in purchasing supplemental insurance coverage.

THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENT REGULATION WHICH
PRESENTS NUMEROUS RISKS TO US.

The discovery, preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing,
marketing and labeling of pharmaceuticals and biologics are all subject to
extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities and agencies in the
United States and other countries. If we or our contractors and collaborators
are delayed in receiving, or are unable to obtain at all, necessary governmental
approvals, we will be unable to effectively market our products.

The testing, marketing and manufacturing of our products require regulatory
approval, including approval from the FDA and, in some cases, from the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, or governmental authorities outside
of the United States that perform roles similar to those of the FDA and EPA.
Certain of our pharmaceutical products, such as FOCALIN(TM), fall under the
Controlled Substances Act of 1970 that requires authorization by the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Agency, or DEA, of the U.S. Department of Justice in order to handle
and distribute these products. The regulatory approval process presents several
risks to us:

      o     In general, preclinical tests and clinical trials can take many
            years, and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and the
            data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to
            varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory
            approval;


                                       23


      o     Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the
            regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical or other
            data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the
            product to meet, a regulatory agency's requirements for safety,
            efficacy and quality or, in the case of a product seeking an orphan
            drug indication, because another designee received approval first or
            receives approval of other labeled indications;

      o     Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to changes
            in regulatory agency policy, or the adoption of new regulations or
            legislation;

      o     The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may
            significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be
            marketed and reimbursed and may impose significant limitations in
            the nature of warnings, precautions and contra-indications that
            could materially affect the sales and profitability of the drug;

      o     Pricing and reimbursement controls;

      o     Approved drugs, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to
            continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of previously unknown
            problems with these products or the failure to adhere to
            manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in
            restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their
            withdrawal from the market;

      o     Regulatory authorities and agencies of the United States or foreign
            governments may promulgate additional regulations restricting the
            sale of our existing and proposed products;

      o     Guidelines and recommendations published by various non-governmental
            organizations can reduce the use of our products;

      o     Once a product receives marketing approval, we may not market that
            product for broader or different applications, and the FDA may not
            grant us approval with respect to separate product applications that
            represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, the FDA
            may withdraw or modify existing approvals in a significant manner or
            promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our
            present or proposed products. The FDA may also request that we
            perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our
            existing or proposed products if we or others identify side effects
            after our products are on the market;

      o     Products, such as REVLIMID(R), that are subject to accelerated
            approval can be subject to an expedited withdrawal if the
            post-marketing study commitments are not completed with due
            diligence, the post-marketing restrictions are not adhered to or are
            shown to be inadequate to assure the safe use of the drug, or
            evidence demonstrates that the drug is not shown to be safe and
            effective under its conditions of use. Additionally, promotional
            materials for such drugs are subject to enhanced surveillance,
            including pre-approval review of all promotional materials used
            within 120 days following marketing approval and a requirement for
            the submissions 30 days prior to initial dissemination of all
            promotional materials disseminated after 120 days following
            marketing approval.

      o     Our labeling and promotional activities relating to our products are
            regulated by the FDA and state regulatory agencies and, in some
            circumstances, by the DEA, and are subject to associated risks. If
            we fail to comply with FDA regulations prohibiting promotion of
            off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing
            clearance has not been obtained, the FDA, or the Office of the
            Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services or
            the state


                                       24


            Attorneys General could bring an enforcement action against us that
            could inhibit our marketing capabilities as well as result in
            significant penalties.

Additionally, the FDA approval process would allow for the approval of an ANDA
or 505(b)(2) application for a generic version of our approved products upon the
expiration, through passage of time or successful legal challenge, of relevant
patent or non-patent exclusivity protection. ANDAs and 505(b)(2) applications
are generally less burdensome than full NDAs in that, in lieu of clinical data,
these applications rely in whole, or in part, upon the safety and efficacy
findings of the referenced approved product in conjunction with bridging data,
typically bioequivalence data.

The FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research currently regulates under
21 CFR Parts 1270 and 1271 human tissue intended for transplantation that is
recovered, processed, stored or distributed by methods that do not change tissue
function or characteristics and that is not currently regulated as a human drug,
biological product or medical device. Certain stem cell-related activities fall
within this category. Part 1270 requires tissue establishments to screen and
test donors, to prepare and follow written procedures for the prevention of the
spread of communicable disease and to maintain records. It also provides for
inspection by the FDA of tissue establishments. Part 1271 requires human cells,
tissue and cellular and tissue-based product establishments (HCT/Ps) to register
with the agency and list their HCT/Ps.

Currently, we are required to be, and are, licensed to operate in New York and
New Jersey, two of the states in which we currently collect placentas and
umbilical cord blood for our allogeneic and private stem cell banking
businesses. If other states adopt similar licensing requirements, we would need
to obtain such licenses to continue operating. If we are delayed in receiving,
or are unable to obtain at all, necessary licenses, we will be unable to provide
services in those states and this would impact negatively on our revenues.

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND OUR PRODUCTS MAY BE
SUBJECT TO GENERIC COMPETITION.

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents,
protect trade secrets, obtain licenses to technology owned by third parties and
to conduct our business without infringing upon the proprietary rights of
others. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms,
including ours, can be uncertain and involve complex legal and factual
questions.

Under the current U.S. patent laws, patent applications in the United States are
maintained in secrecy for at least four to 18 months, and publication of
discoveries in the scientific and patent literature often lag behind actual
discoveries. Thus, we may discover sometime in the future that we, or the third
parties from whom we have licensed patents or patent applications, were not the
first to make and/or file the inventions covered by the patents and patent
applications in which we have or seek rights. In the event that a third party
has also filed a patent application for any of the inventions claimed in our
patents or patent applications, or those we have licensed-in, we could become
involved in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, or the PTO, to determine priority of invention or an opposition
proceeding in other places such as Europe. Such an interference or opposition
could result in the loss of an issued U.S. or foreign patent, respectively, or
loss of any opportunity to secure U.S. patent protection for that invention.
Even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us, such proceedings could result
in substantial cost and delay to us and limit the scope of the claimed subject
matter.

In addition, the coverage sought in a patent application may not be obtained or
may be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, if our
pending applications, or pending application that we have licensed-in from third
parties, do not result in the issuance of patents or if any patents that are


                                       25


issued do not provide significant proprietary protection or commercial
advantage, our ability to sustain the necessary level of intellectual property
rights upon which our success depends may be restricted.

Moreover, different countries have different procedures for obtaining patents,
and patents issued in different countries provide different degrees of
protection against the use of a patented invention by others. Therefore, if the
issuance to us or our licensors, in a given country, of a patent covering an
invention is not followed by the issuance in other countries of patents covering
the same invention, or if any judicial interpretation of the validity,
enforceability or scope of the claims in a patent issued in one country is not
similar to the interpretation given to the corresponding patent issued in
another country, our ability to protect our intellectual property in other
countries may be limited.

Furthermore, even if our patent applications, or those we have licensed-in, are
issued, our competitors may still challenge the scope, validity or
enforceability of such patents in court, requiring us to engage in complex,
lengthy and costly litigation. Alternatively, our competitors may be able to
design around such patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative
technology. If any of our issued or licensed patents are infringed, we may not
be successful in enforcing our or our licensor's intellectual property rights or
defending the validity or enforceability of our issued patents and subsequently
not be able to develop or market applicable product exclusively.

FDA regulatory exclusivity for thalidomide has expired so that generic drug
companies can file an ANDA to seek approval to market thalidomide in the United
States. Barr Laboratories, Inc., a generic drug manufacturer located in Pomona,
New York, filed an ANDA for the treatment of ENL in the manner described in our
label and seeking permission from the FDA to market a generic version of 50mg,
100mg and 200mg THALOMID(R). Under the federal Hatch-Waxman Act of 1984, any
generic manufacturer may file an ANDA with a certification (a "Paragraph IV
certification") challenging the validity or infringement of a patent listed in
the FDA's APPROVED DRUG PRODUCTS WITH THERAPEUTIC EQUIVALENCE EVALUATIONS, or
the "Orange Book", four years after the pioneer company obtains approval of its
New Drug Application, or an NDA. On or after December 5, 2006, Barr mailed
notices of Paragraph IV certifications alleging that the following patents
listed for THALOMID(R) in the Orange Book are invalid, unenforceable, and/or not
infringed: U.S. Patent Nos. 6,045,501 ("the '501 patent"), 6,315,720 ("the '720
patent"), 6,561,976 ("the '976 patent"), 6,561,977 ("the '977 patent"),
6,755,784 ("the '784 patent"), 6,869,399 ("the '399 patent"), 6,908,432 ("the
'432 patent"), and 7,141,018 ("the '018 patent"). The '501, '976, and '432
patents do not expire until August 28, 2018, while the remaining patents do not
expire until October 23, 2020. On January 18, 2007, we filed an infringement
action in the United States District Court of New Jersey against Barr. We intend
to vigorously enforce our rights under these patents. If the ANDA is approved by
the FDA, and Barr is successful in challenging our patents listed in the Orange
Book for THALOMID(R), Barr would be permitted to sell a generic thalidomide
product.

On August 19, 2004, we, together with our exclusive licensee Novartis, filed an
infringement action in the United States District Court of New Jersey against
Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., in response to notices of Paragraph IV
certifications made by Teva in connection with the filing of an ANDA for
FOCALIN(TM). The notification letters contend that U.S. Patent Nos. 5,908,850,
or '850 patent, and 6,355,656, or '656 patent, were invalid. After the suit was
filed, Novartis listed another patent, U.S. Patent No. 6,528,530, or '530
patent, in the Orange Book in association with the FOCALIN(TM) NDA. The original
2004 action asserted infringement of the '850 patent. Teva amended its answer
during discovery to contend that the '850 patent was not infringed by the filing
of its ANDA, and that the '850 patent is not enforceable due to an allegation of
inequitable conduct. Fact discovery expired on February 28, 2006. At about the
time of the filing of the '850 patent infringement action, reexamination
proceedings for the '656 patent were initiated in the U.S. PTO. Recently, the
U.S. PTO sent to us a Notice of Intent to Issue Ex Parte Reexamination
Certificate. On December 21, 2006, Celgene and Novartis filed an action in the
United States District Court of New Jersey against Teva for infringement of the
'656 patent. As a related case, the '656 patent infringement action has been
assigned to the same judge assigned to the '850 patent


                                       26


infringement action who consolidated it with the previously pending '850 patent
infringement action. No trial date has been set for either case. The statutory
30-month stay of FDA approval of Teva's ANDA expired on January 9, 2007. If Teva
goes to market with a generic version of FOCALIN(TM) prior to trial, or
successfully defends against both patents, our sales of FOCALIN(TM) to Novartis
could be significantly reduced. The '530 patent is not part of the patent
infringement action against Teva. The proceeding does not involve an ANDA for
FOCALIN XR(TM).

On December 4, 2006, we, together with our exclusive licensee Novartis, filed an
infringement action in the United States District Court for the District of New
Jersey against Abrika Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Abrika Pharmaceuticals, LLP, in
response to a notice of a Paragraph IV certification made by Abrika
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in connection with the filing of an ANDA for RITALIN
LA(TM). The notification letter contends that claims in United States Patent
Nos. 5,837,284 and 6,635,284 are invalid and are not infringed by the proposed
Abrika products. On December 6, 2006, we and Novartis filed a second identical
action in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware as a
protective suit and intended to serve the complaint and summons only in the
event that personal jurisdiction in New Jersey was successfully challenged by
Abrika. Abrika filed an answer and counterclaim in the Delaware court on
December 8, 2006. The counterclaim seeks a declaratory judgment of patent
invalidity, noninfringement and unenforceability. We and Novartis have moved the
Delaware court to strike Abrika's answer and counterclaim without prejudice to
refiling if the complaint is later served, or to stay the action pending a
determination of personal jurisdiction in the New Jersey court. The motion is
fully briefed and awaiting a decision by the court. Abrika has moved to dismiss
the New Jersey action or to transfer it to the Delaware court. We and Novartis
have been granted leave to take discovery from Abrika prior to filing an
opposition brief. The motion is scheduled to be fully briefed by March 26, 2007.
Neither the Delaware court nor the New Jersey court has set a date for trial. If
we are unsuccessful in defending our patents by a Court of final decision,
Novartis' sales of RITALIN LA(TM) could be significantly reduced in the United
States by the entrance of a generic RITALIN LA(TM) product, consequently
reducing our revenue from royalties associated with these sales.

On June 14, 2006, an opposition proceeding was brought by IPC-Nordic A/S
("Opponent") against granted European Patent 1264597, which is one of second of
two European patents that we have licensed from The Children's Medical Center
Corporation and sub-licensed to Pharmion. The granted European patent in
opposition relates to use of thalidomide as a medicament of the treatment of
solid or blood-borne tumors. The Opponent alleges several bases for which the
patent is not patentable. On February 13, 2007, a response to the opponent
opposition brief was submitted to the European Patent Office. We intend to
vigorously pursue our rights in the opposition proceeding.

On January 15, 2004, an opposition proceeding was brought by Celltech R&D Ltd.
("Opponent") against granted European Patent 0728143 which we have licensed from
the University of California relating to JNK 1 and JNK 2 polypeptides. This
proceeding is directed solely to our claims for JNK 2 and not JNK 1. An oral
hearing occurred in October of 2005 in which the European Patent Office, or the
EPO, advised us of its intent to revoke certain of our claims. A written
decision confirming the intent of the EPO was issued in January of 2006. The
written decision was appealed to the European Board of Appeals ("Board") in
March of 2006. In connection with the appeal process, in May of 2006, we
submitted a Statement of Grounds providing further evidence for consideration by
the Board. The Opponent made no responsive submissions. An oral hearing is
scheduled for May of 2007. We do have other JNK 1 and JNK European patent
application claims pending.

We rely upon unpatented proprietary and trade secret technology that we try to
protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborative partners,
employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers
and other advisors. If these agreements are breached, we may not have adequate
remedies for any such breach. Despite precautions taken by us, others may obtain
access to


                                       27


or independently develop our proprietary technology or such technology may be
found to be non-proprietary or not a trade secret.

Our right to practice the inventions claimed in certain patents that relate to
THALOMID(R) arises under licenses granted to us by others, including The
Rockefeller University and Children's Medical Center Corporation, or CMCC. In
addition to these patents, which relate to thalidomide, we have also licensed
from CMCC certain patents relating to thalidomide analogs. In December 2002, we
entered into an exclusive license agreement with CMCC and EntreMed Inc. pursuant
to which CMCC exclusively licensed to us certain patents and patent applications
that relate to analogs, metabolites, precursors and hydrolysis products of
thalidomide, and all stereoisomers thereof. Our license under the December 2002
agreement is worldwide and royalty-bearing, and we have complete control over
the prosecution of the licensed thalidomide analog patent rights. Under this
December 2002 agreement, we are obligated to comply with certain milestones for
a REVLIMID(R) approval and royalties with respect to sales of REVLIMID(R). The
December 2002 agreement also grants us an option for a certain time period to
inventions in the field of thalidomide analogs that may be developed at CMCC in
the laboratory of Dr. Robert D'Amato, pursuant to the terms and conditions of a
separate Sponsored Research Agreement negotiated between CMCC and us.

Further, while we believe these confidentiality agreements and license
agreements to be valid and enforceable, our rights under these agreements may
not continue or disputes concerning these agreements may arise. If any of the
foregoing should occur, we may be unable to rely upon our unpatented proprietary
and trade secret technology, or we may be unable to use the third-party
proprietary technology we have licensed-in, either of which may prevent or
hamper us from successfully pursuing our business.

It is also possible that third-party patent applications and patents could issue
with claims that broadly cover certain aspects of our business or of the subject
matter claimed in the patents or patent applications owned or optioned by us or
licensed to us, which may limit our ability to conduct our business or to
practice under our patents, and may impede our efforts to obtain meaningful
patent protection of our own. If patents are issued to third parties that
contain competitive or conflicting claims, we may be legally prohibited from
pursuing research, development or commercialization of potential products or be
required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative
technology. We may be legally prohibited from using patented technology, may not
be able to obtain any license to the patents and technologies of third parties
on acceptable terms, if at all, or may not be able to obtain or develop
alternative technologies. Consequently, if we cannot successfully defend against
any patent infringement suit that may be brought against us by a third-party, we
may lose the ability to continue to conduct our business as we presently do, or
to practice certain subject matter delineated by patent claims that we have
exclusive rights to, whether by ownership or by license, and that may have a
material adverse effect on our business.

We rely upon trademarks and service marks to protect our rights to the
intellectual property used in our business. On October 29, 2003, we filed a
lawsuit against Centocor, Inc. to prevent Centocor's use of the term "I.M.I.D.s"
in connection with Centocor's products, which use, we believe, is likely to
cause confusion with our IMiDs(R) registered trademark for compounds (including
REVLIMID(R)) developed or being developed by us to treat cancer and inflammatory
diseases. If we are not successful in this suit, it may be necessary for us to
adopt a different trademark for that class of compounds and thereby lose the
value we believe we have built in the "IMiDs(R)" mark. Currently, this case is
scheduled for trial on April 23, 2007.

WE FACE THE RISK OF PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS.

We may be subject to a variety of product liability or other claims based on
allegations that the use of our technology or products has resulted in adverse
effects, whether by participants in our clinical trials, by


                                       28


patients using our products or by other persons exposed to our products.
Thalidomide, when used by pregnant women, has resulted in serious birth defects.
Therefore, necessary and strict precautions must be taken by physicians
prescribing the drug and pharmacies dispensing the drug to women with
childbearing potential. These precautions may not be observed in all cases or,
if observed, may not be effective. Use of thalidomide has also been associated,
in a limited number of cases, with other side effects, including nerve damage.
Although we have product liability insurance that we believe is sufficient, we
may be unable to maintain existing coverage or obtain additional coverage on
commercially reasonable terms if required, or our coverage may be inadequate to
protect us in the event of a multitude of claims being asserted against us. Our
obligation to defend against or pay any product liability or other claim may be
expensive and divert the efforts of our management and technical personnel.

LITIGATION ON A VARIETY OF MATTERS MAY SUBJECT US TO SIGNIFICANT LEGAL EXPENSES
AND LIABILITY.

From time to time, we may be subject to litigation on a variety of matters,
including, as discussed above, intellectual property, licensing arrangements
with other persons and product liability. Litigation requires the expenditure of
significant time and resources, and is inherently unpredictable. If any
litigation were to have an unanticipated adverse result, there could be a
material impact on our results of operations or financial position.

THE PHARMACEUTICAL AND BIOTECH INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND SUBJECT TO
RAPID AND SIGNIFICANT TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE.

The pharmaceutical industry in which we operate is highly competitive and
subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our present and potential
competitors include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as
specialty pharmaceutical firms, including but not limited to:

      o     Amgen, which potentially competes with our TNFa and kinase
            inhibitors;

      o     Novartis, which potentially competes with our IMiDs(R) compounds and
            kinase programs;

      o     Bristol Myers Squibb Co., which potentially competes in clinical
            trials with our IMiDs(R) compounds and TNFa inhibitors;

      o     Genentech, Inc., which potentially competes in clinical trials with
            our IMiDs(R) compounds and TNFa inhibitors;

      o     AstraZeneca plc, which potentially competes in clinical trials with
            our IMiDs(R) compounds and TNFa inhibitors;

      o     Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Johnson & Johnson, which
            potentially compete with REVLIMID(R) and THALOMID(R) in thE
            treatment of multiple myeloma and in clinical trials with our
            IMiDs(R) compounds;

      o     Pfizer Inc., which potentially competes in clinical trials with our
            kinase inhibitors;

      o     Biogen Idec Inc. and Genzyme Corporation, both of which are
            generally developing drugs that address the oncology and immunology
            markets; and

      o     Centocor, Inc., which potentially competes with certain of our
            proprietary programs including our oral anti-inflammatory programs.


                                       29


Many of these companies have considerably greater financial, technical and
marketing resources than we do. We also experience competition from universities
and other research institutions, and in some instances, we compete with others
in acquiring technology from these sources. The pharmaceutical industry has
undergone, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant
technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technical
advances in the field are made and become more widely known. The development of
products, including generics, or processes by our competitors with significant
advantages over those that we are seeking to develop could cause the
marketability of our products to stagnate or decline.

SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS ARE DEPENDENT ON THIRD-PARTY REIMBURSEMENT.

Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of
our products will be paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit
and similar health care management organizations, or reimbursed by government
health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other
third-party payors. These health care management organizations and third-party
payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and
services. Additionally, the containment of health care costs has become a
priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of drugs have been a
focus in this effort. If these organizations and third-party payors do not
consider our products to be cost-effective or competitive with other available
therapies, they may not reimburse providers or consumers of our products or, if
they do, the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow us to sell
our products on a profitable basis.

In addition, certain legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system
could impact the pricing of our products. Effective January 1, 2006, Medicare
prescription drug coverage legislation authorizes the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services to implement a new Medicare, Part D coverage benefit for
prescription drugs.

While numerous factors may influence the impact that the drug program may have
on us, the most significant factors are:

      (a) not all drugs in a class may be covered under the program;

      (b) payment levels under the new Medicare program may be lower than the
previous Medicare payment levels;

      (c) Medicare patients will have to pay co-insurance and this may influence
which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients;

      (d) enrollment in the program is mandatory for those who are dually
eligible for both Medicaid and Medicare;

      (e) there is no assurance that our drugs will be recognized under the new
Medicare Part D program for outpatient prescription drugs or paid at levels that
reflect current or historical levels;

      (f) each Part D plan must review our drugs for addition to their formulary
and there may be some lag time before being added to each plan's formulary, if
added at all; and

      (g) federal Medicare proposals, along with State Medicaid drug payment
changes and healthcare reforms could also lower payment for our products.


                                       30


Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the
reimbursement changes emerging in 2007 and beyond from the Medicare prescription
drug coverage legislation. To the extent that private insurers such as Blue
Cross and Blue Shield or managed care programs follow Medicaid coverage and
payment developments, the adverse effects of lower Medicare payment may be
magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment. Additionally, some states
have enacted health care reform legislation. Further federal and state
developments are possible. The impact of proposed legislation and other reforms
is unclear, but it may result in pricing and reimbursement restrictions, which
could adversely impact our revenues.

CHANGES IN OUR EFFECTIVE INCOME TAX RATE COULD REDUCE OUR EARNINGS.

Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective
income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations
of existing tax laws, the accounting for stock options and other share-based
payments, changes in tax laws and rates, future levels of research and
development spending, changes in accounting standards, future levels of capital
expenditures, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in
which we operate, challenges to our transfer pricing, the outcome of IRS exams
and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. The impact on our income tax
provision resulting from the above-mentioned factors may be significant and
could have a negative impact on our results of operations.

OUR OPERATIONS MAY BE IMPACTED BY CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS THAT MAY CAUSE OUR
EARNINGS TO FLUCTUATE AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE.

Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies could
impact our earnings. We anticipate utilizing foreign currency forward contracts
to manage foreign currency risk and not to engage in currency speculation. We
would use these forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted transactions
denominated in foreign currencies. Our hedging efforts would reduce but not
eliminate our anticipated exposure to currency fluctuations. Any significant
foreign exchange rate fluctuations within a short period of time could still
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

WE MAY EXPERIENCE AN ADVERSE MARKET REACTION IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MEET OUR
FINANCIAL REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.

Because of inherent limitations, our internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements in our financial reporting. Such
misstatements may result in litigation and/or negative publicity and possibly
cause an adverse market reaction that may negatively impact our growth plans and
the value of our common stock or debt securities obligations.

ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS MAY AFFECT OUR FUTURE FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.

There may be new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have
an affect on our future financial position and results of operations. For
example, in December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, "Share-Based Payment," which supersedes APB
Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and requires
companies to recognize compensation expense, using a fair-value based method,
for costs related to share-based payments including stock options and stock
issued under our employee stock plans. We have adopted SFAS 123R using the
modified prospective application method on January 1, 2006. Our estimate of
future stock-based compensation expense is affected by our stock price, the
number of stock-based awards our board of directors may grant in 2007 and
subsequent years, as well as a number of complex and subjective valuation
assumptions and the related tax impact. These valuation assumptions include, but
are not limited to, the volatility of our stock price and employee stock option
exercise behaviors.


                                       31


THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY, WHICH MAY MAKE IT
DIFFICULT FOR YOU TO SELL THE COMMON STOCK WHEN YOU WANT OR AT PRICES YOU FIND
ATTRACTIVE.

There has been significant volatility in the market prices for publicly traded
shares of biopharmaceutical companies, including ours. We expect that the market
price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The split-adjusted
intra-day price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $60.12 per share
to a low of $31.51 per share in 2006. On December 31, 2006, our common stock
closed at a price of $57.53 per share. The price of our common stock may not
remain at or exceed current levels. The following key factors may have an
adverse impact on the market price of our common stock:

      o     results of our clinical trials or adverse events associated with our
            marketed products;

      o     announcements of technical or product developments by our
            competitors;

      o     market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks;

      o     market conditions generally;

      o     governmental regulation;

      o     new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings;

      o     health care legislation;

      o     public announcements regarding medical advances in the treatment of
            the disease states that we are targeting;

      o     patent or proprietary rights developments;

      o     changes in pricing and third-party reimbursement policies for our
            products;

      o     fluctuations in our operating results;

      o     the outcome of litigation involving our products or processes
            related to production and formulation of those products or uses of
            those products; or

      o     competition.

In addition, the stock market in general and the biotechnology sector in
particular has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to
the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market
fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE COULD
ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK.

Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or debt or other
securities convertible into common stock could adversely affect the market price
of our common stock. As of December 31, 2006, there were outstanding stock
options and warrants for 37,490,340 shares of common stock, of which 28,013,548
were currently vested and exercisable at an exercise price range between $0.04
per share and $59.01 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $16.97
per share. In addition, in June 2003, we issued $400.0 million of unsecured
convertible notes that are currently convertible into 33,014,519


                                       32


shares of our common stock at the conversion price of $12.1125. The conversion
of some or all of these notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing
stockholders.

OUR SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN AND CERTAIN CHARTER AND BY-LAW PROVISIONS MAY DETER
A THIRD-PARTY FROM ACQUIRING US AND MAY IMPEDE THE STOCKHOLDERS' ABILITY TO
REMOVE AND REPLACE OUR MANAGEMENT OR BOARD OF DIRECTORS.

Our board of directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan, the purpose of
which is to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control
of us that do not offer a fair price to all of our stockholders. The rights plan
may have the effect of dissuading a potential acquirer from making an offer for
our common stock at a price that represents a premium to the then current
trading price.

Our board of directors has the authority to issue, at any time, without further
stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to
determine the price, rights, privileges and preferences of those shares. An
issuance of preferred stock could discourage a third-party from acquiring a
majority of our outstanding voting stock. Additionally, our board of directors
has adopted certain amendments to our by-laws intended to strengthen the board's
position in the event of a hostile takeover attempt. These provisions could
impede the stockholders' ability to remove and replace our management and/or
board of directors.

Furthermore, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware
General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law, which may also dissuade a
potential acquirer of our common stock.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and Annual
Reports on Form 10-K are electronically filed with or furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and all such reports and amendments
to such reports filed have been and will be made available, free of charge,
through our website (HTTP://WWW.CELGENE.COM) as soon as reasonably practicable
after such filing. Such reports will remain available on our website for at
least 12 months. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference
into this Annual Report. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us
with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NW, Washington,
D.C. 20549.

The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site
(http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements,
and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

ITEM 1B