ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

The following statements describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. Any of these factors could significantly and
negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. The risks described below are
not the only risks we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, could also negatively affect our business, financial
results and operations. 

 We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results which could cause our financial results to be below expectations and cause our stock price to
be volatile.  

We have historically experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. These fluctuations are
due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, and may result in volatility of our stock price. Future operating results will depend on many factors,
including:



•demand or lack of demand for our products, including demand that adversely affects our ability to optimize the use of our
manufacturing facilities; 
•the introduction and pricing of products competitive with ours, including generic competition;  
•developments regarding the safety or efficacy of our products; 
•regulatory approvals for our products and pricing determinations with respect to our products;  
•regulatory approvals for our manufacturing facilities and those of our suppliers;  
•timing and levels of spending for research and development, sales and marketing;  
•timing and levels of reimbursement from third-party payers for our products; 

24




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•development or expansion of business infrastructure in new clinical and geographic markets;  
•the acquisition of new products and companies; 
•tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate; 
•timing and recognition of certain research and development milestones and license fees;  
•ability to control our costs; 
•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and
•economic and market instability. 


 We are dependent on the continued commercial success of our primary products REVLIMID®, VIDAZA®, THALOMID® and ABRAXANE®, and
a significant decline in demand for or use of these products or our other commercially available products could materially and adversely affect our operating results.  

During the next several years, the growth of our business will be largely dependent on the commercial success of REVLIMID®,
VIDAZA®, THALOMID® and ABRAXANE®. We cannot predict the extent to which these or our other existing or new products will be accepted by regulators, physicians,
patients and other key opinion leaders as effective drugs with certain advantages over existing or future therapies. We are continuing to introduce our products in additional international markets and
to obtain approvals for additional indications both in the United States and internationally. A delay in gaining the requisite regulatory approvals for these markets or indications could negatively
impact our growth plans and the value of our stock. 

Further,
if unexpected adverse experiences are reported in connection with the use of any of our products, physician and patient comfort with the product could be undermined, the commercial success of
such product could be adversely affected and the acceptance of our other products could be negatively impacted. We are subject to adverse event reporting regulations that require us to report to the
Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or similar bodies in other countries if our products are associated with a death or serious injury. These adverse events, among others, could result in additional
regulatory controls, such as the performance of costly post-approval clinical studies or revisions to our approved labeling, which could limit the indications or patient population for our
products or could even lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market. Similarly, the occurrence of serious adverse events known or suspected to be related to the products could negatively impact
product sales. For example, THALOMID® is known to be toxic to the human fetus and exposure to the drug during pregnancy could result in significant deformities in the baby.
REVLIMID® is also considered fetal toxic and there are warnings against use of VIDAZA® in pregnant women as well. While we have restricted distribution systems for both
THALOMID® and REVLIMID® and we endeavor to educate patients regarding the potential known adverse events including pregnancy risks, we cannot ensure that all such warnings and
recommendations will be complied with or that adverse events resulting from non-compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our business. 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

It
is necessary that our primary products achieve and maintain market acceptance. A number of factors may adversely impact the degree of market acceptance of our products, including the products'
efficacy, safety, price and benefits, if any, over competing products, as well as the reimbursement policies of third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans, patent disputes and
claims about adverse side effects. 

 If we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products we will be unable to sell our current products and products in development.  

Changes in law, government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. The discovery, preclinical
development, clinical trials, manufacturing, risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (such as our S.T.E.P.S.® and RevAssist® programs), marketing and labeling of
pharmaceuticals and biologics are all subject to extensive laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the U.S. Public Health
Service Act, Medicare Modernization Act, Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act, and other federal and state statutes, as well as similar laws in foreign jurisdictions. Changes in laws,
government regulations or policies can have a significant adverse impact on our ability to continue to commercialize our products or introduce new products to the market, which would adversely affect
our results of operations. 

If
we or our agents, contractors or collaborators are delayed in receiving, or are unable to obtain all, necessary governmental approvals, we will be unable to effectively market our products. 


The
testing, marketing and manufacturing of our products requires regulatory approval, including approval from the FDA and, in some cases, from the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, or
governmental authorities outside of the United States that perform roles similar to those of the FDA and EPA, including the EMA, European Commission, the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices
Agency, the Swissmedic, the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration and Health Canada. Certain of our pharmaceutical products, such as FOCALIN®, fall under the Controlled Substances
Act of 1970 that requires authorization by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA, of the U.S. Department of Justice in order to handle and distribute these products. 


The
regulatory approval process presents a number of risks to us, principally:



•In general, preclinical tests and clinical trials can take many years, and require the expenditure of substantial
resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval;  
•Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical
or other data to demonstrate compliance with a regulatory agency's requirements for safety, efficacy and quality or, in the case of a product seeking an orphan drug indication, because another
designee received approval first or receives approval of other labeled indications; 
•Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency policy or the adoption of new
regulations or legislation; 

26




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be
marketed and reimbursed and may impose significant limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions and contra-indications that could materially affect the sales and profitability of the drug;  
•Approved products, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of
previously unknown problems with these products or the failure to adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their
withdrawal from the market; 
•Regulatory authorities and agencies of the United States or foreign governments may promulgate additional regulations
restricting the sale of our existing and proposed products, including specifically tailored risk evaluation and mitigation strategies; 
•Guidelines and recommendations published by various governmental and non-governmental organizations can reduce
the use of our products; 
•Once a product receives marketing approval, we may not market that product for broader or different applications, and the
FDA may not grant us approval with respect to separate product applications that represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, the FDA may withdraw or modify existing approvals in a
significant manner or promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our present or proposed products. The FDA may also request that we perform additional clinical trials or change the
labeling of our existing or proposed products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market; 
•Products, such as REVLIMID®, that are subject to accelerated approval can be subject to an expedited
withdrawal if the post-marketing restrictions are not adhered to or are shown to be inadequate to assure the safe use of the drug, or evidence demonstrates that the drug is not shown to be
safe and effective under its conditions of use. Additionally, promotional materials for such products are subject to enhanced surveillance, including pre-approval review of all promotional
materials used within 120 days following marketing approval and a requirement for the submissions 30 days prior to initial dissemination of all promotional materials disseminated after
120 days following marketing approval; and
•Our risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, labeling and promotional activities relating to our products as well as our
post-marketing activities are regulated by the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, the United States Department of Justice, the DEA, state regulatory agencies and foreign regulatory
agencies and are subject to associated risks. In addition, individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription
drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. If we fail to comply with regulations regarding the promotion and sale of our products, appropriate distribution of our products under
our restricted distribution systems, off-label promotion and the promotion of unapproved products, such agencies may bring enforcement actions against us that could inhibit our commercial
capabilities as well as result in significant penalties. 

27




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

Other
matters that may be the subject of governmental or regulatory action which could adversely affect our business include:



•changes in laws and regulations, including without limitation, patent, environmental, privacy, health care and competition
laws; 
•importation of prescription drugs from outside the United States at prices that are regulated by the governments of
various foreign countries; 
•additional restrictions on interactions with healthcare professionals;
and
•privacy restrictions that may limit our ability to share data from foreign jurisdictions. 


We
collect placentas and umbilical cord blood for our unrelated allogeneic and private stem cell banking businesses. The FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research currently regulates human
tissue or cells intended for transplantation, implantation, infusion or transfer to a human recipient under 21 CFR Parts 1270 and 1271. Part 1271 requires cell and tissue establishments
to screen and test donors, to prepare and follow written procedures for the prevention of the spread of communicable disease and to register the establishment with FDA. This part also provides for
inspection by the FDA of cell and tissue establishments. Currently, we are required to be, and are, licensed to operate in New York, New Jersey, Maryland and California. If other states adopt similar
licensing requirements, we would need to obtain such licenses to continue operating any stem cell banking businesses if we are deemed to be operating in those states. If we are delayed in receiving,
or are unable to obtain at all, necessary licenses, we will be unable to provide services in those states and this could impact negatively on our revenue. 


 Sales of our products will be significantly reduced if access to and reimbursement for our products by governmental and other third-party payers is reduced or terminated.  

Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products will be paid by health maintenance, managed care,
pharmacy benefit and similar health care management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payers.
Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the United States, the government-sponsored healthcare system is the primary payer of healthcare costs of patients. These health care management
organizations and third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Additionally, the 2010 U.S. Health Care Reform Law, which became effective in
January 2011, has provided sweeping health care reform in the United States, which may impact access to and reimbursement for our products. In addition to the federal legislation, state legislatures
and foreign governments have also shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for
substitution of generic products. The establishment of limitations on patient access to our drugs, adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures in new jurisdictions or
programs, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, including the impact of the 2010 U.S. Health Care Reform Law, could adversely impact our
business and future results. If these organizations and third-party payers do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not reimburse 

28




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

providers
or consumers of our products or, if they do, the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. 

Our
ability to sell our products to hospitals in the United States depends in part on our relationships with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Many existing and potential customers for
our products become members of GPOs. GPOs negotiate pricing arrangements and contracts, sometimes on an exclusive basis, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these
negotiated prices are made available to a GPO's affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a GPO, affiliated hospitals and other members may
be less likely to purchase our products, and if the GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer's products, we may be
precluded from making sales to members of the GPO for the duration of
that contractual arrangement. Our failure to renew contracts with GPOs may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results
of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these contracts at the current or substantially similar terms. If we are unable to keep our relationships and develop new
relationships with GPOs, our competitive position may suffer. 

We
encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most countries outside the United States. International operations are generally subject to extensive governmental price controls and other
market regulations, and we believe the increasing emphasis on cost-containment initiatives in Europe and other countries has and will continue to put pressure on access to and
reimbursement for our products. Although we cannot predict the extent to which our business may be affected by future cost-containment measures or other potential legislative or regulatory
developments, additional foreign price controls or other changes in pricing regulation could restrict access to and reimbursement for our current and future products, which could adversely affect our
revenue and results of operations. 

 Our long-term success depends, in part, on intellectual property protection.  

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents, protect trade secrets, obtain licenses to technology owned by third
parties and to conduct our business without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, can be uncertain
and involve complex legal and factual questions including those related to our risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (such as our S.T.E.P.S.® and RevAssist® programs). In
addition, the coverage sought in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. 

Consequently,
we do not know whether any of our owned or licensed pending patent applications, which have not already been allowed, will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are
issued, whether they will be dominated by third-party patent rights, whether they will provide significant proprietary protection or commercial advantage or whether they will be circumvented, opposed,
invalidated, rendered unenforceable or infringed by others. Further, we are aware of third-party U.S. patents that relate to, for example, the use of certain stem cell technologies and cannot be
certain as to any impact to our potential products, or guarantee that our patents or pending applications will not be involved in, or be defeated as a result of, 

29




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

opposition
proceedings before a foreign patent office or any interference proceedings before the United States Patent & Trademark Office, or PTO. 

With
respect to patents and patent applications we have licensed-in, there can be no assurance that additional patents will be issued to any of the third parties from whom we have licensed
patent rights, or that, if any new patents are issued, such patents will not be opposed, challenged, invalidated, infringed or dominated or provide us with significant proprietary protection or
commercial advantage. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any of the existing licensed patents will provide us with proprietary protection or commercial advantage. Nor can we guarantee that these
licensed patents will not be either infringed, invalidated or circumvented by others, or that the relevant agreements will not be terminated. A termination of material licenses granted to us could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Because
(1) patent applications filed in the United States on or before November 28, 2000 are maintained in secrecy until patents issue, (2) patent applications filed in the
United States on or after November 29, 2000 are not published until approximately 18 months after their earliest claimed priority date, (3) United States patent applications that
are not filed outside the United States may not publish at all until issued and (4) publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we
cannot be certain that we, or our licensors, were the first to make the inventions covered by each of the issued patents or pending patent applications or that we, or our licensors, were the first to
file patent applications for such inventions. In the event a third party has also filed a patent for any of our inventions, we, or our licensors, may have to participate in interference proceedings
before the PTO to determine priority of invention, which could result in the loss of a U.S. patent or loss of any opportunity to secure U.S. patent protection for the invention. Even if the eventual
outcome is favorable to us, such interference proceedings could result in substantial cost to us. 

Our
intellectual property rights will further be affected in ways that are difficult to anticipate at this time by the provisions of the America Invents Act, signed into law on September 16,
2011. The new patent law is the first major overhaul of the U.S. patent system since 1952, and includes a number of changes to established practices. The most significant changes in the new law
include the transition to a first-to-file system, the availability of new post-grant review for issued patents, various procedural changes, including the submission
of prior art and the availability of derivation proceedings and supplemental examination, and an expanded prior commercial user rights defense to a claim of patent infringement. The scope of these
changes and the lack of experience with their practical implementation, suggest a transitional period with some uncertainty over the
next few years. For example, while some provisions of the new patent law have already taken effect, others will take effect up to 18 months from enactment. The U.S. PTO is still in the process
of publishing regulations concerning the implementation of the law. Several provisions of the new law will likely be tested in courts over time. 

The
changes in the new U.S. patent law will have an impact on our intellectual property rights and how business is conducted in general. For example, the first-to-file system
places a premium on filing as early as possible and appears to increase what is available as prior art, by changing the applicable definitions. In the future, in addition to patents and printed
publications, we may be required to deal with unfamiliar prior art categories such as art that is "otherwise available to the 

30




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

public."
For patent applications filed on or after March 16, 2013, we may expect post-grant review challenges initiated up to nine months after the corresponding patent issues. 


While
the new patent law was intended to make the resolution of intellectual property disputes easier and less expensive, we may in the future have to prove that we are not infringing patents or we
may be required to obtain licenses to such patents. However, we do not know whether such licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Prosecution of patent applications,
post-grant opposition proceedings and litigation to establish the validity and scope of patents, to assert patent infringement claims against others and to defend against patent
infringement claims by others can be expensive and time-consuming. There can be no assurance that, in the event that claims of any of our owned or licensed patents are challenged by one or
more third parties, any court or patent authority ruling on such challenge will determine that such patent claims are valid and enforceable. An adverse outcome in such litigation or
post-grant proceeding could cause us to lose exclusivity relating to the subject matter delineated by such patent claims and may have a material adverse effect on our business. If a third
party is found to have rights covering products or processes used by us, we could be forced to cease using the products or processes covered by the disputed rights, be subject to significant
liabilities to such third party and/or be required to license technologies from such third party. Also, different countries have different procedures for obtaining patents, and patents issued by
different countries provide different degrees of protection against the use of a patented invention by others. There can be no assurance, therefore, that the issuance to us in one country of a patent
covering an invention will be followed by the issuance in other countries of patents covering the same invention or that any judicial interpretation of the validity, enforceability or scope of the
claims in a patent issued in one country will be similar to the
judicial interpretation given to a corresponding patent issued in another country. Competitors have chosen and in the future may choose to file oppositions to patent applications, which have been
deemed allowable by foreign patent examiners. Furthermore, even if our owned or licensed patents are determined to be valid and enforceable, there can be no assurance that competitors will not be able
to challenge the validity or our patent claims in post-grant proceedings, or to design around such patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. Additionally, for
these same reasons, we cannot be sure that patents of a broader scope than ours may be issued and thereby create freedom to operate issues. If this occurs we may need to reevaluate pursuing such
technology, which is dominated by others' patent rights, or alternatively, seek a license to practice our own invention, whether or not patented. 

We
also rely upon unpatented, proprietary and trade secret technology that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborative partners, employees, consultants, outside
scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors. There can be no assurance that these agreements provide meaningful protection or that they will not be breached, that we would have
adequate remedies for any such breach or that our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances will not otherwise become known to others. In addition, there can be no
assurance that, despite precautions taken by us, others have not and will not obtain access to our proprietary technology or that such technology will not be found to be non-proprietary or
not a trade secret. 

31




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Our products may face competition from lower cost generic or follow-on products and providers of these products may be able to sell them at a substantially lower
cost than us.  

Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to compete with our drugs and present an important challenge to us. Even if our patent applications, or those
we have licensed-in, are issued, innovative and generic drug manufacturers and other competitors may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of such patents in court, requiring us
to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation. Alternatively, innovative and generic drug manufacturers and other competitors may be able to design around our owned or licensed patents and
compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. If any of our issued or licensed patents are infringed or challenged, we may not be successful in enforcing or defending our or our
licensor's intellectual property rights and subsequently may not be able to develop or market the applicable product exclusively. 


Upon
the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the "at-risk" launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a
generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our products, we can quickly lose a significant portion of our sales of that product, which can adversely affect our business. In addition, if
generic versions of our competitors' branded products lose their market exclusivity, our patented products may face increased competition which can adversely affect our business. 

The
FDA approval process allows for the approval of an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, or 505(b)(2) application for a generic version of our approved products upon the expiration, through
passage of time or successful legal challenge, of relevant patent or non-patent exclusivity protection. Generic manufacturers pursuing ANDA approvals are not required to conduct costly and
time-consuming clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of their products; rather, they are permitted to rely on the innovator's data regarding safety and efficacy. Thus,
generic manufacturers can sell their products at prices much lower than those charged by the innovative companies who have incurred substantial expenses associated with the research and development of
the drug product. Accordingly, while our products currently may retain certain regulatory and or patent exclusivity, our products are or will be subject to ANDA applications to the FDA in light of the
Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The ANDA procedure includes provisions allowing generic manufacturers to challenge the effectiveness of the innovator's patent
protection prior to the generic manufacturer actually commercializing their products – the so-called "Paragraph IV" certification procedure. In recent years,
generic manufacturers have used Paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge the applicability of Orange Book-listed patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals,
and we expect this trend to continue. During the exclusivity periods, the FDA is generally prevented from granting effective approval of an ANDA. Upon the expiration of the applicable exclusivities,
through passage of time or successful legal challenge, the FDA may grant effective approval of an ANDA for a generic drug, or may accept reference to a previously protected NDA in a 505(b)(2)
application. Further, upon such expiration event, the FDA may require a generic competitor to participate in some form of risk management system which could include our participation as well.
Depending upon the scope of the applicable exclusivities, any such approval could be limited to certain formulations and/or indications/claims, i.e., those not covered by any outstanding
exclusivities. 

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

If
an ANDA filer or a 505(b)(2) applicant were to receive approval to sell a generic or follow-on version of one of our products, that product would become subject to increased competition
and our revenues for that product would be adversely affected. 

We
received two Paragraph IV Certification Letters dated August 30, 2010 and June 12, 2012, respectively, advising us that Natco Pharma Limited of Hyderabad, India, or Natco,
submitted an ANDA to the FDA with respect to REVLIMID®. See "Legal Proceedings" contained in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further
information. 

 If we are not able to effectively compete our business will be adversely affected.  

The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in which we operate are highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change.
Our present and potential competitors include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms, including, but not limited to:



•Takeda and Johnson & Johnson, which compete with REVLIMID® and THALOMID® in the treatment
of multiple myeloma and in clinical trials with our compounds; 
•Eisai, SuperGen and Johnson & Johnson, which compete or may potentially compete with VIDAZA®, in
addition Eisai potentially competes with ABRAXANE®, and in other oncology products in general; 
•Amgen, which potentially competes with our TNF-a and kinase inhibitors;  
•AstraZeneca, which potentially competes in clinical trials with our compounds and
TNF-a inhibitors; 
•Biogen Idec is generally developing drugs that address the oncology and immunology markets;  
•Bristol Myers Squibb, which potentially competes with ABRAXANE®, and in clinical trials with our compounds and
TNF-a inhibitors, in addition to other oncology products in general; 
•F. Hoffman-La Roche, which potentially competes in clinical trials with our
®TNF-a inhibitors, in addition to other oncology products in general; 
•Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, and Abbott Laboratories also compete with our oral anti-inflammatory
programs; 
•Novartis, which potentially competes with our compounds and kinase programs;  
•Pfizer, which potentially competes in clinical trials with our kinase inhibitors;
and
•Sanofi, which competes with ABRAXANE®, in addition to other oncology products in general. 

33










<A
NAME="page_dg18801_1_34"> 










































Table of Contents 

Many of these companies have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. This enables them, among other things, to make greater research and
development investments and spread their research and development costs, as well as their marketing and promotion costs, over a broader revenue base. Our competitors may also have more experience and
expertise in obtaining marketing approvals from the FDA, and other regulatory authorities. We also experience competition from universities and other research institutions, and in some instances, we
compete with others in acquiring technology from these sources. The pharmaceutical industry has undergone, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change, and we
expect competition to intensify as technical advances in the field are made and become more widely known. The development of products, including generics, or processes by our competitors with
significant advantages over those that we are seeking to develop could cause the marketability of our products to stagnate or decline. 

 A decline of global economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations.  

Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers,
distribution partners and other organizations. As a result of global credit and financial market conditions, these organizations may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay
payment. In addition, U.S. federal and state health authorities may reduce Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private insurers may limit access to and reimbursement for our products. A
reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could negatively affect our product sales, revenue and cash flows. 

See
our discussion of accounts receivable from Spain, Italy and Portugal in the Management Discussion and Analysis section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the caption
"Liquidity and Capital Resources" for details related to amounts receivable from the government owned or controlled hospitals in Spain, Italy and Portugal. 

Due
to tightened global credit, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third parties for several important aspects
of our business, including portions of our product manufacturing, royalty revenue, clinical development of future collaboration products, conduct of clinical trials and raw materials. If such third
parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business could be adversely affected. 

 We may be required to modify our business practices, pay fines and significant expenses or experience losses due to litigation or governmental investigations.  

From time to time, we may be subject to litigation or governmental investigation on a variety of matters in the United States or foreign
jurisdictions, including, without limitation, regulatory, intellectual property, product liability, antitrust, consumer, false claims, whistleblower, Qui Tam, privacy, anti-kickback, anti-bribery,
environmental, commercial, securities and employment litigation and claims and other legal proceedings that may arise from the conduct of our business. 

Our
activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Like many companies in our
industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of 

34




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

information
requests from government authorities, and we have been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities. 

We
are also subject to significant product liability risks as a result of the testing of our products in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. Although we have
insurance coverage with respect to potential product liability claims, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be adequate or continue to be available at sufficient levels to fully
cover claims that may arise in the future. 

In
the fourth quarter of 2009, we received a Civil Investigative Demand (CID) from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC. The FTC requested documents and other information relating to requests
by generic companies to purchase our patented REVLIMID® and THALOMID® brand drugs in order to evaluate whether there is reason to believe that we have engaged in unfair methods
of competition. In the first quarter of 2010, the State of Connecticut referenced the same issues as those referenced in the 2009 CID and issued a subpoena. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we received
a second CID from the FTC relating to this matter. We continue to respond to requests for information. 

In
the first quarter of 2011, the United States Attorney's Office for the Central District of California informed us that they are investigating possible off-label marketing and improper
payments to physicians in connection with the sales of THALOMID® and REVLIMID®. In the third quarter of 2012, we learned that two other United States Attorneys' offices (the
Northern District of Alabama and the Eastern District of Texas) and various state Attorneys General are conducting related investigations. We are cooperating with these investigations. 

While
the ultimate outcome of investigations and legal proceedings are difficult to predict, adverse resolutions or settlements of those matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, cash flows or financial condition and result in, among other things:



•rulings that are materially unfavorable to us, including significant damage awards, fines or penalties, and administrative
remedies, such as exclusion and/or debarment from government programs, or other rulings that prevent us from operating our business in a certain manner;  
•changes to our business operations to avoid perceived risks associated with such litigation or investigations;  
•modification of our business practices; 
•product recalls; 
•reputational damage and decreased demand for our products; and
•expenditure of significant time and resources, which may divert the attention of our management and interfere with the
pursuit of our strategic objectives. 


While
we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. It also is not possible to 

35




 


<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

obtain
insurance to protect against all potential risks and liabilities. If any litigation or governmental investigation were to have a material adverse result, there could be a material impact on our
results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. See also "Legal Proceedings" contained in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

 The development of new biopharmaceutical products involves a lengthy and complex process, and we may be unable to commercialize any of the products we are currently
developing.  

Many of our drug candidates are in the early or mid-stages of research and development and will require the commitment of substantial
financial resources, extensive research, development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval prior to being ready for sale. This process
involves a high degree of risk and takes many years. Our product development efforts with respect to a product candidate may fail for many reasons, including the failure of the product candidate in
preclinical studies; adverse patient reactions to the product candidate or indications or other safety concerns; insufficient clinical trial data to support the effectiveness or superiority of the
product candidate; our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for development or commercialization activities in a timely and cost-efficient manner; our
failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, the required regulatory approvals for the product candidate, the facilities or the process used to manufacture the product candidate; or changes in the
regulatory environment, including pricing and reimbursement, that make development of a new product or of an existing product for a new indication no longer desirable. Moreover, our commercially
available products may require additional studies with respect to approved indications as well as new indications pending approval. 

The
stem cell products that we are developing through our Celgene Cellular Therapeutics, or CCT, subsidiary may represent substantial departures from established treatment methods and will compete
with a number of traditional products and therapies which are now, or may be in the future, manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, public
attitudes may be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe, and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. 


Due
to the inherent uncertainty involved in conducting clinical studies, we can give no assurances that our studies will have a positive result or that we will receive regulatory approvals for our new
products or new indications. 

 Manufacturing and distribution risks including a disruption at certain of our manufacturing and distribution sites, would significantly interrupt our production
capabilities, which could result in significant product delays and adversely affect our results.  

We have our own manufacturing facilities for many of our products and we have contracted with third-party manufacturers and distributors to provide
active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, encapsulation, finishing services, packaging and distribution services to meet our needs. These operations expose us to risks that include the possibility
that our or our suppliers' manufacturing processes and distribution channels could be partially or completely disrupted by a fire, natural disaster, terrorist attack, governmental action or military
action. In the case of a disruption, we may need to establish alternative manufacturing sources for these products. This would likely lead to substantial production delays as we build or locate
replacement facilities and seek and 

36




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

obtain
the necessary regulatory approvals. If this occurs, and our finished goods inventories are insufficient to meet demand, we may be unable to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis, if at all.
Further, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur and we would have to bear the uncovered cost of any disruption. For these reasons, a
significant disruptive event affecting these manufacturing facilities or sites could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, if we inaccurately predict
market demand for our products, we may be unable to sufficiently increase production capacity to satisfy demand or may incur costs associated with excess inventory that we manufacture. 


In
all the countries where we sell our products, governmental regulations exist to define standards for manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution and storing. All of our suppliers of raw
materials, contract manufacturers and distributors must comply with these regulations, as applicable. In the United States, the FDA requires that all suppliers of pharmaceutical bulk material and all
manufacturers of pharmaceuticals for sale in or from the United States achieve and maintain compliance with the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and guidelines. Our failure to
comply, or failure of our third-party manufacturers
to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on them or us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, disgorgement, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license
revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products. In addition, before any
product batch produced by our manufacturers can be shipped, it must conform to release specifications pre-approved by regulators for the content of the pharmaceutical product. If the
operations of one or more of our manufacturers were to become unavailable for any reason, any required FDA review and approval of the operations of an alternative supplier could cause a delay in the
manufacture of our products. 

If
our outside manufacturers do not meet our requirements for quality, quantity or timeliness, or do not achieve and maintain compliance with all applicable regulations, our ability to continue
supplying such products at a level that meets demand could be adversely affected. 

We
have contracted with distributors, to distribute REVLIMID®, THALOMID®, VIDAZA®, ABRAXANE® and ISTODAX®. If our distributors fail to
perform and we cannot secure a replacement distributor within a reasonable period of time, we may experience adverse effects to our business and results of operations. 

We
are continuing to establish marketing and distribution capabilities in international markets with respect to our products. At the same time, we are in the process of obtaining necessary
governmental and regulatory approvals to sell our products in certain countries. If we have not successfully completed and implemented adequate marketing and distribution support services upon our
receipt of such approvals, our ability to effectively launch our products in these countries would be severely restricted. 

37




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 The consolidation of drug wholesalers and other wholesaler actions could increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us.  

We sell our pharmaceutical products in the United States primarily through wholesale distributors and contracted pharmacies. These wholesale
customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation. As a
result, a smaller number of large wholesale distributors and pharmacy chains control a significant share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and pharmacy chains will
increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. In addition, wholesalers may apply pricing pressure through fee-for-service
arrangements, and their purchases may exceed customer demand, resulting in reduced wholesaler purchases in later quarters. We cannot assure you that we can manage these pressures or that wholesaler
purchases will not decrease as a result of this potential excess buying. 

 Risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents or contractors or collaborators could adversely affect our business or reputation.  

We cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees,
agents, contractors or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including without limitation, employment, foreign corrupt practices,
environmental, competition and privacy laws. Such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and injunctive penalties and could adversely impact our ability to
conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. 

 The integration of acquired businesses may present significant challenges to us.  

We may face significant challenges in effectively integrating entities and businesses that we may acquire and we may not realize the benefits
anticipated from such acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of our acquired businesses will depend in part upon whether we can integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner.
Our integration of acquired businesses involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to:



•demands on management related to the increase in our size after the acquisition;  
•the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations;  
•higher integration costs than anticipated; 
•failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings; 
•difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; 

38




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation of broad and
geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and
•difficulties in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records,
and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards and controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related procedures and
policies. 


If
we cannot successfully integrate acquired businesses we may experience material negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Successful integration of
acquired businesses will depend on our ability to manage these operations, to
realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by product offerings and expanded geographic market coverage and, to some degree, to eliminate redundant and excess costs. 

 An inability to continue to attract and retain key leadership, managerial, commercial and scientific talent could adversely affect our business.  

The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to (i) attract and retain highly qualified management,
scientific, manufacturing and commercial personnel, (ii) successfully integrate large numbers of new employees into our corporate culture and (iii) develop and maintain important
relationships with leading research and medical institutions and key distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense. 

Among
other benefits, we use share-based compensation to attract and retain personnel. Share-based compensation accounting rules require us to recognize all share-based compensation costs as expenses.
These or other factors could reduce the number of share-based compensation awards we grant under our incentive plan. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract or retain skilled personnel or
maintain key relationships, or that the costs of retaining such personnel or maintaining such relationships will not materially increase. 

 We could be subject to significant liability as a result of risks associated with using hazardous materials in our business.  


We use certain hazardous materials in our research, development, manufacturing and general business activities. While we believe we are currently in
substantial compliance with the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use of these materials, we cannot be certain that accidental injury or contamination will not occur. If an
accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup
obligations, damages and fines. This could result in substantial liabilities that could exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources. Additionally, the cost of compliance with environmental
and safety laws and regulations may increase in the future, requiring us to expend more financial resources either in compliance or in purchasing supplemental insurance coverage. 

 Changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations.  

We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are
largely dependent upon the distribution of 

39




 


<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

income
among these different jurisdictions. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations
of existing tax laws, the accounting for stock options and other share-based compensation, changes in tax laws and rates, future levels of research and development spending, changes in accounting
standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, the outcome of examinations by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other jurisdictions, the accuracy
of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits and realization of deferred tax assets, and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. The impact on our income tax provision resulting
from the above-mentioned factors and others may be significant and could have an impact on our results of operations. 

 Currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could increase our costs and may cause our profitability to decline.  

We collect and pay a substantial portion of our sales and expenditures in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates affect our operating results. 

We
utilize foreign currency forward contracts and option contracts, which are derivative instruments, to manage foreign currency risk, but not to engage in currency speculation. We use these
derivative instruments to hedge certain forecasted transactions and balance sheet exposures denominated in foreign currencies. The use of these derivative instruments is intended to mitigate the
exposure of these risks with the intent to reduce our risk or cost, but may not fully offset any change in operating results as a consequence of fluctuations in foreign currencies. Any significant
foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For additional information, see Part II,
Item 8, Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

 We may experience an adverse market reaction if we are unable to meet our financial reporting obligations.  

As we continue to expand at a rapid pace, the development of new and/or improved automated systems will remain an ongoing priority. During this
expansion period, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements in our financial reporting. Such misstatements may result in litigation and/or negative
publicity and possibly cause an adverse market reaction that may negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our common stock. 

 The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and you may lose some or all of your investment in us.  

The market for our shares of common stock may be subject to conditions that cause prices to fluctuate significantly. The following key factors may
have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock:



•results of our clinical trials or adverse events associated with our marketed products;  
•fluctuations in our commercial and operating results; 

40




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•announcements of technical or product developments by us or our competitors;  
•market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular;  
•stock market conditions generally; 
•changes in governmental regulations and laws, including, without limitation, changes in tax laws, health care legislation,
environmental laws, competition laws, and patent laws; 
•new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings; 
•public announcements regarding medical advances in the treatment of the disease states that we are targeting;  
•patent or proprietary rights developments; 
•changes in pricing and third-party reimbursement policies for our products;  
•the outcome of litigation involving our products or processes related to production and formulation of those products or
uses of those products; 
•other litigation or governmental investigations; 
•competition; and
•investor reaction to announcements regarding business or product acquisitions. 


In
addition, our operations may be materially impacted by conditions affecting global markets generally. Global markets may be adversely affected by many factors beyond our control, including global,
regional and industrial economic instability and market volatility, sovereign debt issues, rising interest rates or inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty. A market downturn in general and/or
in the biopharmaceutical sector in particular, may adversely affect the market price of our securities, which may not necessarily reflect the actual or perceived value of our company. 


 Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to service our obligations under our incurred indebtedness.  

We have incurred various forms of indebtedness including senior notes, commercial paper, and a senior unsecured credit facility. Our ability to pay
interest, principal amounts when due at maturity, to comply with debt covenants or to repurchase the senior notes if a change of control occurs will depend upon, among other things, continued
commercial success of our products and other factors that affect our future financial and operating performance, including, without limitation, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business,
and regulatory factors, many of which are beyond our control. 

41




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

If
we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service the debt service requirements under our incurred indebtedness, we may be forced to take actions such as:



•restructuring or refinancing our debt; 
•seeking additional debt or equity capital; 
•reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, including research and
development expenditures; or
•selling assets, businesses, products or other potential revenue streams. 


Such
measures might not be successful and might not enable us to service our obligations under our indebtedness. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available
on economically favorable terms, if at all. 

 A breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business.  

We rely upon our information technology systems and infrastructure for our business. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them
potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others who access our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be
exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we believe that we have taken appropriate security measures to protect our data and information technology systems, there can be no assurance
that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. 

 We have certain charter and by-law provisions that may deter a third-party from acquiring us and may impede the stockholders' ability to remove and replace our
management or board of directors.  

Our board of directors has the authority to issue, at any time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and
to determine the price, rights, privileges and preferences of those shares. An issuance of preferred stock could discourage a third-party from acquiring a majority of our outstanding voting stock.
Additionally, our by-laws contain provisions intended to strengthen the board's position in the event of a hostile takeover attempt. These provisions could impede the stockholders' ability
to remove and replace our management and/or board of directors. Furthermore, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an
anti-takeover law, which may also dissuade a potential acquirer of our common stock. 

 In addition to the risks relating to our common stock, holders of our contingent value right, or CVRs, are subject to additional risks.  

On October 15, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Abraxis and in connection with our acquisition, CVRs, were issued
under a CVR Agreement entered into between us and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as trustee. Pursuant to the CVR Agreement, each holder of a CVR is entitled to receive a  pro rata<FONT
SIZE=2> portion, based on the number of CVRs then outstanding, of certain milestone and net sales payments if certain 

42




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

specified
conditions are satisfied. For more information, see Part II, Item 8, Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. 

In
addition to the risks relating to our common stock, CVR holders are subject to additional risks, including:



•an active public market for the CVRs may not continue to exist or the CVRs may trade at low volumes, both of which could
have an adverse effect on the resale price, if any, of the CVRs; 
•in the absence of an active public market for the CVRs, the market price and trading volume of the CVRs may be volatile;  
•if the clinical approval milestones specified in the CVR Agreement are not achieved for any reason within the time periods
specified therein, and if net sales do not exceed the thresholds set forth in the CVR Agreement for any reason within the time periods specified therein, no payment will be made under the CVRs and the
CVRs will expire valueless; 
•since the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the CVRs is unclear, any part of any CVR payment could be treated as
ordinary income and required to be included in income prior to the receipt of the CVR payment; 
•any payments in respect of the CVRs are subordinated to the right of payment of certain of our other indebtedness;  
•we may under certain circumstances redeem the CVRs; and
•upon expiration of our obligations to achieve each of the CVR milestones and to commercialize ABRAXANE® or any
of the other Abraxis pipeline products, we may discontinue such efforts, which would have an adverse effect on the value, if any, of the CVRs. 


 AVAILABLE INFORMATION  

Our Current Reports on Form 8-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on
Form 10-K are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC, and all such reports and amendments to such reports filed have been and will be made available, free of charge,
through our website (http://www.celgene.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such filing. Such reports will remain available on our website for
at least 12 months. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us
with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. 

The
public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site  (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the
SEC. 

43




 

<A
HREF="#bg18801a_main_toc">Table of Contents



<A
NAME="dg18801_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B