Item 1A of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    COMMERCIAL
    STAGE PRODUCTS


 


    REVLIMID®

    (lenalidomide):  REVLIMID®

    is an oral immunomodulatory drug marketed in the United States
    and many international markets, in combination with
    dexamethasone, for treatment of patients with multiple myeloma
    who have received at least one prior therapy. In the United
    States and select international markets, it is also approved for
    the treatment of transfusion-dependent anemia due to low- or
    intermediate-1-risk myelodysplastic syndromes, or MDS,
    associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or
    without additional cytogenetic abnormalities. In June 2010,
    Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare granted
    REVLIMID®

    full marketing authorization for use in combination with
    dexamethasone as a treatment for patients with relapsed or
    refractory multiple myeloma, who have received at least one
    prior standard therapy and, in August 2010, for the treatment of
    patients with MDS associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic
    abnormality.
    REVLIMID®

    has obtained orphan drug designation for the treatment of
    multiple myeloma and MDS in the United States and a number of
    international markets.
    REVLIMID®

    is approved in 16 countries in Latin America where it is
    distributed through an agreement with Tecnofarma S.A., or
    Tecnofarma.


 


    REVLIMID®

    is distributed in the United States primarily through contracted
    pharmacies under the
    RevAssist®

    program, which is a proprietary risk-management distribution
    program tailored specifically to help ensure the safe and
    appropriate distribution and use of
    REVLIMID®.

    Internationally,
    REVLIMID®

    is distributed under mandatory risk-management distribution
    programs tailored to meet local competent authorities’
    specifications to help ensure the safe and appropriate
    distribution and use of
    REVLIMID®.

    These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the
    country and the design of the risk-management program, the
    product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies.


 


    REVLIMID®

    continues to be evaluated in numerous clinical trials worldwide
    either alone or in combination with one or more other therapies
    in the treatment of a broad range of hematological malignancies,
    including multiple myeloma, MDS, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, or
    NHL, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or CLL, other cancers and
    other diseases.


 


    VIDAZA®

    (azacitidine for
    injection):  VIDAZA®,

    which is licensed from Pfizer, is a pyrimidine nucleoside analog
    that has been shown to reverse the effects of DNA
    hypermethylation and promote subsequent gene re-expression.
    VIDAZA®

    is a Category 1 recommended treatment for patients with
    intermediate-2 and high-risk MDS according to the National
    Comprehensive Cancer Network, or NCCN, and is marketed in the
    United States for the treatment of all subtypes of MDS.
    VIDAZA®

    has been granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of
    MDS through May 2011. In Europe,
    VIDAZA®

    is marketed for the treatment of intermediate-2 and high-risk
    MDS as well as acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, with 30% blasts
    and has been granted orphan drug designation for the treatment
    of MDS and AML, expiring December 2018.
    VIDAZA®

    is distributed through the traditional pharmaceutical industry
    supply chain. In Latin America,
    VIDAZA®

    is distributed primarily by Tecnofarma and by Labratorio
    Varifarma S.A. (Argentina) and United Medical (Brazil).




    
    2



Table of Contents





    THALOMID®

    (thalidomide):  THALOMID®

    is marketed for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma
    and for the acute treatment of the cutaneous manifestations of
    moderate to severe erythema nodosum leprosum, or ENL, an
    inflammatory complication of leprosy and as maintenance therapy
    for prevention and suppression of the cutaneous manifestation of
    ENL recurrence.


 


    THALOMID®

    is distributed in the United States under our “System
    for Thalidomide Education and Prescribing Safety,” or
    S.T.E.P.S.®,

    program which we developed and is a proprietary comprehensive
    education and risk-management distribution program with the
    objective of providing for the safe and appropriate distribution
    and use of
    THALOMID®.

    Internationally,
    THALOMID®

    is also distributed under mandatory risk-management distribution
    programs tailored to meet local competent authorities’
    specifications to help ensure the safe and appropriate
    distribution and use of
    THALOMID®.

    These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the
    country and the design of the risk-management program, the
    product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies.


 


    ABRAXANE®:  ABRAXANE®

    for injectable suspension (paclitaxel protein-bound particles
    for injectable suspension) (albumin-bound) was approved by the
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in January 2005,
    based on a 505(b)(2) submission, for the treatment of metastatic
    breast cancer and, as of December 2010, was approved for
    marketing in 42 countries.
    ABRAXANE®

    represents the first in a new class of protein-bound drug
    particles that takes advantage of albumin, a natural carrier of
    water insoluble molecules found in humans.


 


    ISTODAX®

    (romidespin):  is a histone deacetylase, or HDAC,
    inhibitor, which was approved by the FDA for the treatment of
    CTCL in patients who have received at least one prior systemic
    therapy. We are currently pursuing an additional indication in
    PTCL in the United States and plan to file for an approval in
    both PTCL and CTCL in the European Union, or E.U.


 


    FOCALIN®

    and
    RITALIN®:  We

    licensed the worldwide rights (excluding Canada) to
    FOCALIN®

    and FOCALIN
    XR®

    to Novartis for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity
    disorder, or ADHD, and retained the rights to these products for
    the treatment of oncology-related disorders. We sell
    FOCALIN®

    exclusively to Novartis and receive royalties on all of
    Novartis’ sales of FOCALIN
    XR®.

    FOCALIN®

    is formulated with the active d-isomer of methylphenidate and
    contains only the more active isomer responsible for the
    effective management of the symptoms of ADHD. We also licensed
    the rights to the
    RITALIN®

    family of ADHD-related products to Novartis and receive
    royalties on their sales.


 


    ALKERAN®

    (melphalan):  ALKERAN®

    was licensed from GSK and sold under the Celgene label through
    March 31, 2009, the conclusion date of the
    ALKERAN®

    license with GSK.
    ALKERAN®

    was approved by the FDA for the palliative treatment of multiple
    myeloma and of carcinoma of the ovary. Subsequent to the
    conclusion date of the
    ALKERAN®

    license, and ending in March 2011, we will continue to receive
    residual payments from GSK based upon its
    ALKERAN®

    revenues.




    
    3



Table of Contents





    Current evaluations of our commercial stage products and their
    targeted disease indications are outlined in the following table:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Product


 


    Disease Indication


 


    Status



 






    REVLIMID



 


    Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma


 


    Phase III complete, submitted EU regulatory filing, US
    regulatory filing pending




 


 


    NHL


 


    Phase III trials ongoing




 


 


    CLL


 


    Phase III trials ongoing




 


 


    Prostate cancer


 


    Phase III trial ongoing




 


 


    MDS


 


    Phase III trial ongoing




 


 


 


 


 





    ABRAXANE



 


    Non-small cell lung cancer


 


    Phase III trial completed accrual, filing pending




 


 


    Pancreatic cancer


 


    Phase III trial ongoing




 


 


    Melanoma


 


    Phase III trial ongoing




 


 


    Bladder cancer


 


    Phase II trail ongoing




 


 


    Ovarian cancer


 


    Phase II trail ongoing




 


 


 


 


 





    ISTODAX



 


    CTCL


 


    Approved in US, filing in EU pending




 


 


    PTCL


 


    Filed for approval in US, filing in EU pending




 


 


 


 


 





    VIDAZA



 


    AML


 


    Phase III trial enrolling








 



    PRECLINICAL
    AND CLINICAL — STAGE PIPELINE


 


    Our preclinical and clinical-stage pipeline of new drug
    candidates and cell therapies, is highlighted by multiple
    classes of small molecule, orally administered therapeutic
    agents designed to selectively regulate disease-associated genes
    and proteins. The product candidates in our pipeline are at
    various stages of preclinical and clinical development.
    Successful results in preclinical or Phase I/II clinical studies
    may not be an accurate predictor of the ultimate safety or
    effectiveness of a drug or product candidate.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Phase I Clinical Trials





 


    Phase I human clinical trials begin when regulatory agencies
    allow a request to initiate clinical investigations of a new
    drug or product candidate to become effective and usually
    involve between 20 to 80 healthy volunteers or patients. The
    tests study a drug’s safety profile, and may include
    preliminary determination of a drug or product candidate’s
    safe dosage range. The Phase I clinical studies also determine
    how a drug is absorbed, distributed, metabolized and excreted by
    the body, and therefore potentially the duration of its action.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Phase II Clinical Trials





 


    Phase II clinical trials are conducted on a limited number
    of patients with the targeted disease. An initial evaluation of
    the drug’s effectiveness on patients is performed and
    additional information on the drug’s safety and dosage
    range is obtained.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Phase III Clinical Trials





 


    Phase III clinical trials typically include controlled
    multi-center trials and involve a larger target patient
    population to ensure that study results are statistically
    significant. During Phase III clinical trials, physicians
    monitor patients to determine efficacy and to gather further
    information on safety.


 


    Pomalidomide:  Pomalidomide is an
    IMiD®

    drug, a proprietary, novel, small molecule that is orally
    available and modulates the immune system and other biologically
    important targets. Pomalidomide is being evaluated in a
    Phase III clinical trial for the treatment of
    myelofibrosis. A Phase III clinical trial is being planned
    to evaluate pomalidomide as a treatment for patients with
    relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.




    
    4



Table of Contents





    Additional
    IMiDs®

    compounds are in preclinical development. Our
    IMiDs®

    compounds are covered by an extensive and comprehensive
    intellectual property estate of U.S. and foreign-issued
    patents and pending patent applications including
    composition-of-matter,
    use and other patents and patent applications.


 


    ORAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AGENTS:  Our oral
    pluripotent immunomodulators are members of a proprietary
    pipeline of novel small molecules with anti-inflammatory
    activities that impede the production of multiple
    proinflammatory mediators by inhibiting PDE-4, also causing
    reductions in TNF-α as well as interleukin-8, or IL-8,
    IL-17 and IL-23, interferon-gamma, leukotrienes and nitric oxide
    synthase and it up regulates IL-10. Apremilast is our lead
    investigational drug in this class of anti-inflammatory
    compounds and is currently being evaluated as a potential
    therapy for patients with
    moderate-to-severe
    psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis as well as rheumatoid
    arthritis in six Phase III clinical trials. We are also
    exploring the use of apremilast in additional rheumatic,
    dermatologic and inflammatory diseases to determine its
    potential. In addition, we are investigating our next generation
    oral pluripotent immunomodulator, CC-11050, which has completed
    Phase I trials, towards evaluating its safety and efficacy in a
    number of inflammatory conditions and are moving forward with
    its development.


 


    KINASE INHIBITORS:  We have generated
    valuable intellectual property in the identification of multiple
    kinases that regulate pathways critical in inflammation and
    oncology. Our oral kinase inhibitor platform includes inhibitors
    of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase, or JNK, mTOR kinase, spleen
    tyrosine kinase, or Syk,
    c-fms
    tyrosine kinase, or
    c-FMS, and
    DNA-dependent protein kinase, or DNAPK. Our oral Syk,
    c-FMS and
    DNAPK kinase inhibitors are being investigated in pre-clinical
    studies and targeting human trials in 2012. Our oral JNK
    inhibitor, CC-401, has successfully completed a Phase I trial in
    healthy volunteers and in AML patients to determine safety and
    tolerability. No further studies with CC-401 are planned at this
    time as we intend to advance our new second generation JNK
    inhibitors, specifically CC-930, which recently completed a
    Phase Ib multiple dose study. We are also planning to
    investigate CC-930 in fibrotic conditions assuming safety and
    tolerability continue to be acceptable.


 


    SMALL CELL LUNG CANCER:  Amrubicin is a
    third-generation fully synthetic anthracycline molecule with
    potent topoisomerase II inhibition and is currently being
    studied as a single agent and in combination with anti-cancer
    therapies for solid tumors. In 2008, the FDA granted amrubicin
    orphan drug designation for the treatment of small cell lung
    cancer and fast track product designation for the treatment of
    small cell lung cancer after first-line chemotherapy. A drug
    designated as a fast track product is intended for the treatment
    of a serious or life-threatening condition and demonstrates the
    potential to provide a therapy where none exists or provide a
    therapy which may offer a significant improvement in safety
    and/or
    effectiveness over existing therapy.


 


    ABI COMPOUNDS:  ABI compounds are
    targeted nanoparticle, albumin-bound compounds being
    investigated for potential treatment of solid tumor cancers.
    These compounds include: ABI-008
    (nab®

    -docetaxel), which is in a Phase II trial for hormone
    refractory prostate cancer; ABI-009
    (nab®

    -rapamycin), which is an mTOR inhibitor currently in a Phase I
    trial in patients with solid tumors; ABI-010
    (nab®

    -17AAG), which is an Hsp90 inhibitor that completed pre-clinical
    analysis and the initial new drug application, or IND, was
    approved by the FDA in May 2008; and ABI-011
    (nab®

    -thiocolchicine dimer), which is a novel thiocolchicine with
    dual mechanisms of action showing both microtubule
    destabilization and the disruption of topoisomerase-1 activity.
    An IND was filed in the third quarter of 2009.


 


    COROXANEtm

    (nanometer-sized paclitaxel,
    ABRAXANE®,

    under the trade name
    COROXANEtm):  COROXANEtm

    is currently closing its Phase II clinical studies for
    coronary restenosis as well as peripheral artery (superficial
    femoral artery) restenosis. The SNAPIST series of studies
    examines the use of
    COROXANEtm

    in the treatment of coronary artery restenosis, including the
    use of
    COROXANEtm

    in patients receiving bare metal stents.
    COROXANEtm,

    administered with bare metal stents may address the issue of
    incomplete re-endothelialization and acute thrombosis associated
    with drug-eluting stents.
    COROXANEtm

    administered following balloon angioplasty in the superficial
    femoral artery may help reduce the incidence of restenosis in
    these patients. We currently intend to seek a strategic partner
    for the further development and marketing of
    COROXANEtm.



 


    CELLULAR THERAPIES:  At CCT, we are
    researching stem cells derived from the human placenta as well
    as from the umbilical cord. CCT is our
    state-of-the-art
    research and development division dedicated to fulfilling the





    
    5



Table of Contents





    promise of cellular technologies by developing cutting-edge
    products and therapies to significantly benefit patients. Our
    goal is to develop proprietary cell therapy products for the
    treatment of unmet medical needs.


 


    Stem cell based therapies offer the potential to provide
    disease-modifying outcomes for serious diseases which lack
    adequate therapy. We have developed proprietary technology for
    collecting, processing and storing placental stem cells with
    potentially broad therapeutic applications in cancer,
    auto-immune diseases including Crohn’s disease and multiple
    sclerosis, neurological disorders including stroke and
    amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS, graft-versus-host
    disease, or GVHD, and other
    immunological / anti-inflammatory, rheumatologic and
    bone disorders. We have initiated Phase II studies for our
    human placenta derived cell product, PDA-001, to evaluate
    PDA-001 as a potential treatment for patients with
    moderate-to-severe
    Crohn’s disease refractory to oral corticosteroids and
    immune suppressants, patients with multiple sclerosis, and
    patients with stroke or rheumatoid arthritis.


 


    We also maintain an IND with the FDA for a trial with human
    umbilical cord blood in sickle cell anemia and an IND for human
    placental-derived stem cells, or HPDSC, to support a study to
    assess the safety of its transplantation with umbilical cord
    blood stem cells, obtained from fully or partially matched
    related donors in subjects with certain malignant hematological
    diseases and non-malignant disorders. We are continuing
    additional preclinical and clinical research to define further
    the potential of placental-derived stem cells and to
    characterize other placental-derived products.


 


    SOTATERCEPT (ACE-011):  We have a
    collaboration with Acceleron Pharma, or Acceleron, to develop
    sotatercept. Sotatercept acts as a decoy receptor for members of
    the growth and differentiation factor, or GDF, family of ligands
    that bind the ACTIIRB receptor, with highest affinity for
    Activin A and B. Two Phase I clinical studies have been
    completed (A011-01 and A011-02); and two Phase II studies
    (A011-04 and A011-08) are closed and awaiting completion of the
    clinical study report. Three additional Phase II clinical
    studies have been initiated and are currently ongoing
    (A011-REN-001 in end stage renal anemia, A011-NSCL-001 for
    chemotherapy-induced anemia in non-small cell lung cancer, or
    NSCLC, patients and A011-ST-001 to evaluate effects on red blood
    cell mass and plasma volume).




    
    6



Table of Contents






    CELGENE
    LEADING PRODUCT CANDIDATES


 


    The development of our leading new drug candidates and their
    targeted disease indications are outlined in the following table:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Product


 


    Disease Indication


 


    Status



 






    IMiDs®

    Compounds:



 


 


 


 





    Pomalidomide (CC-4047)



 


    Myelofibrosis


 


    Phase III trial ongoing




 


 


    Multiple myeloma


 


    Phase II trial ongoing, pivotal trial planned





    Oral Anti-Inflammatory:



 


 


 


 





    Apremilast (CC-10004)



 


    Psoriasis


 


    Phase III trials ongoing




 


 


    Psoriatic arthritis


 


    Phase III trials ongoing




 


 


    Rheumatoid arthritis


 


    Phase II trial enrolling





    CC-11050



 


    Cutaneous lupus


 


    Phase II trial ongoing




 


 


 


 


 





    Kinase Inhibitors:



 


 


 


 





    JNK CC-930



 


    Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis


 


    Phase II trial ongoing




 


 


 


 


 





    Small Cell Lung Cancer:



 


 


 


 





    Amrubicin



 


    Small cell lung cancer


 


    Phase III trial completed




 


 


 


 


 





    Nab®-docetaxel

    (ABI-008)



 


    Solid tumors


 


    Phase I completed in hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC).




 


 


 


 


    Phase II trial ongoing




 


 


 


 


 





    Nab®-rapamycin

    (ABI-009)



 


    Solid tumors


 


    Phase I trial ongoing




 


 


 


 


 





    Nab®-17AAG

    (ABI-010)



 


    Solid tumors


 


    Phase I trial planned




 


 


 


 


 





    Nab®-thiocolchicine

    dimer
    (ABI-011)



 


    Solid tumors


 


    IND filed





    Cellular Therapies:



 


 


 


 





    PDA-001



 


    Crohn’s disease


 


    Phase II trial ongoing




 


 


    Multiple sclerosis


 


    Phase Ib trial ongoing




 


 


    Ischemic stroke


 


    Phase II trial ongoing




 


 


    Rheumatoid arthritis


 


    Phase II trial ongoing





    Activin Biology:



 


 


 


 





    Sotatercept (ACE-011)



 


    Renal anemia


 


    Phase II trial ongoing




 


 


    Chemotherapy induced anemia


 


    Phase II trial ongoing








 



    PATENTS
    AND PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY


 


    We consider intellectual property protection (including but not
    limited to patents and regulatory exclusivities) relative to
    certain products- particularly those products discussed below-
    to be critical to our operations. For many of our products, in
    addition to compound patents we hold other patents on
    manufacturing processes, formulations, or uses that may extend
    exclusivity beyond the expiration of the product patent.




    
    7



Table of Contents






    KEY
    PRODUCTS: TABLE OF EXCLUSIVITIES


 


    The following table shows the estimated expiration dates in the
    United States and in Europe of the
    last-to-expire
    period of exclusivity (regulatory or patent) related to the
    following approved drugs:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    U.S.


 


 


    Europe



 






    REVLIMID®

    brand drug
    (U.S. drug substance patent) (European Patent Office, or EPO
    use/drug product patent)



 


 


    2026


 


 


    2023





    THALOMID®

    brand drug
    (use and/or drug product patents)



 


 


    2023


 


 


    2019





    VIDAZA®

    brand drug
    (U.S. and EMA regulatory exclusivities only)



 


 


    2011


 


 


    2018





    ABRAXANE®

    brand drug
    (U.S. use/drug product patent) (EMA regulatory exclusivity)



 


 


    2024


 


 


    2018





    ISTODAX®

    brand drug 
    (U.S. drug substance patents) (EMA regulatory exclusivity upon
    approval)



 


 


    2021


 


 


    (10 years regulatory
    exclusivity upon approval)





    FOCALIN®

    brand drug
    (U.S. use patents)



 


 


    2015


 


 


    N/A





    FOCALIN
    XR®

    brand drug
    (U.S. use patents) (EPO drug product patent)



 


 


    2015


 


 


    2018





    RITALIN
    LA®

    brand drug
    (U.S. use patents) (EPO drug product patent)



 


 


    2015


 


 


    2018








 


    In the United States, the patents covering the
    REVLIMID®

    brand drug include thirteen (13) patents that are listed in
    the Orange Book, all of which are assigned to us. The
    last-to-expire
    patent (2026), U.S. Patent No. 7,465,800, covers
    certain polymorphic forms of the pharmaceutically active
    ingredient of
    REVLIMID®

    brand drug.


 


    REVLIMID®

    brand drug is also covered in foreign countries by patents and
    patent applications that are equivalent to those listed in the
    U.S. Orange Book. For example, patents related to the
    active pharmaceutical ingredient, uses and pharmaceutical
    compositions are granted in Europe. The patents are currently
    scheduled to expire in 2017 or 2018, except that patents granted
    in certain European countries such as, for example, Spain,
    France, Italy, Germany and the United Kingdom will not expire
    until 2022 due to the supplementary protection certificates, or
    SPCs, granted in these countries. In addition, patents in Europe
    that relate to uses of and products comprising lenalidomide
    relative to multiple myeloma will not expire until 2023.


 


    The patents covering
    THALOMID®

    brand drug in the United States include thirteen
    (13) patents that are listed in the Orange Book. The
    last-to-expire
    patent (2023), U.S. Patent No. 7,230,012, that is
    assigned to us, covers marketed
    THALOMID®

    formulations.


 


    In foreign countries,
    THALOMID®

    brand drug is also covered by patents and patent applications
    that are equivalent to those listed in the U.S. Orange
    Book. Patents related to the approved uses of thalidomide are
    granted in Europe. The patents are currently scheduled to expire
    in 2014 or 2017, except that patents granted in certain European
    countries, such as for example, Spain, France and Italy, will
    not expire until 2019 due to the SPCs granted in these countries.


 


    Exclusivity with respect to the currently approved formulation
    for
    VIDAZA®

    brand drug stems from regulatory mechanisms. In the United
    States, orphan drug exclusivity with respect to
    VIDAZA®

    brand drug expires in May 2011. In Europe, new drug and orphan
    exclusivities relative to
    VIDAZA®

    brand drug expire in December 2018.


 


    The patents covering
    ABRAXANE®

    brand drug in the United States include eight (8) patents
    that are listed in the Orange Book. The
    last-to-expire
    patent (2024), U.S. Patent No. 7,820,788, covers
    marketed
    ABRAXANE®

    formulations. In Europe, new drug exclusivity relative to
    ABRAXANE®

    brand drug expires in 2018. We have applied for Supplementary
    Protection Certificates in Europe relative to EP 0 961 612 B1
    that, if granted, would





    
    8



Table of Contents





    extend exclusivity for
    ABRAXANE®

    brand drug to 2022. EP 0 961 612 B1 presently is under
    opposition at the European Patent Office by Teva Pharmaceutical
    Industries Ltd.


 


    Our acquisition of Gloucester Pharmaceuticals Inc. included the
    acquisition of certain intellectual properties relative to
    ISTODAX®

    brand drug. United States Patent No. 4,977,138 is presently
    estimated to expire on July 6, 2011. The remaining two
    patents, related to alternate forms of the active pharmaceutical
    ingredient of
    ISTODAX®

    brand drug, expire on the same date: August 22, 2021.


 


    In the United States, the patents covering
    FOCALIN®

    brand drug include three (3) patents that are listed in the
    Orange Book. All of these patents are assigned to us. These
    patents all expire on the same date: December 4, 2015.


 


    In the United States, the patents covering FOCALIN
    XR®

    brand drug comprise six (6) patents that are listed in the
    Orange Book. All of these six (6) patents are assigned to
    us. These patents all expire on the same date: December 4,
    2015. A relevant European patent, owned by us, expires on
    June 9, 2018.


 


    In the United States, the patents covering RITALIN
    LA®

    brand drug comprise three (3) patents that are listed in
    the Orange Book. All of these three (3) patents are
    assigned to us. These patents all expire on the same date:
    December 4, 2015. A relevant European patent, owned by us,
    expires on June 9, 2018.


 


    In terms of our United States patents for
    FOCALIN®,

    FOCALIN
    XR®

    and RITALIN
    LA®

    brand drugs, the previously disclosed litigations with generic
    drug companies (i.e. TEVA Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.,
    IntelliPharmaCeutics Corp., Actavis South Atlantic LLC, Abrika
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Barr Pharmaceutical, Inc. and KV
    Pharmaceutical Company), see annual report on
    Form 10-K
    filed on February 18, 2010, were resolved pursuant to
    confidential settlements which do allow for the entrance of
    their respective generic products in the United States prior to
    the 2015 patent expirations, should their respective ANDA
    applications have FDA approval.


 


    As noted above, patent protection is very important to us and
    our business and, therefore, we have applied for and received
    SPCs in Europe relative to certain in-licensed CMCC thalidomide
    patents. These SPCs, reflected in the chart above, extend the
    terms of these patents relative to certain uses of thalidomide
    to 2019. In addition, also as reflected in the chart above, we
    have applied for and received SPCs to 2022 in Europe relative to
    lenalidomide. In the United States, we have been granted a
    patent term extension of our
    REVLIMID®

    composition of matter patent to 2019. By way of further example,
    in the United States, and as reflected in the chart above, we
    have been granted patent term adjustment with respect to a
    REVLIMID®

    polymorph patent; this patent is presently scheduled to expire
    in 2026.


 


    Patent term extensions have been granted in other markets as
    well including Australia and Korea relative to certain of our
    patents claiming lenalidomide. Patent term extension
    applications relative to lenalidomide also are pending in Japan.
    In addition, we have actively considered and may pursue
    alternate exclusivity strategies, mostly related to
    international treaties, in a variety of countries throughout
    Latin America.


 


    Trade secret strategies also are integral to our success. There
    exist certain trade secrets related to many of our key products,
    including
    ABRAXANE®

    brand drug.


 


    Our brand names, logos and trademarks are also important to us
    and in the aggregate important to our success. We maintain both
    registered and common law trademarks. Common law trademark
    protection typically continues where and for as long as the mark
    is used. Registered trademarks continue in each country for as
    long as the trademark is registered,


 


    In total, we own or have exclusively licensed over 280 issued
    U.S. patents. In addition, approximately 310 additional
    pending patent applications are owned by or exclusively licensed
    to us. We have a policy to seek worldwide patent protection for
    our inventions and have foreign patent rights corresponding to
    most of our U.S. patents.


 


    In August 2001, we entered into an agreement, termed the
    “New Thalidomide Agreement,” with EntreMed, Inc., or
    EntreMed, Children’s Medical Center Corporation, or CMCC,
    and Bioventure Investments kft relating to patents and patent
    applications owned by CMCC, which agreement superceded several
    agreements already in place between CMCC, EntreMed and us.
    Pursuant to the New Thalidomide Agreement, CMCC directly granted
    to us an exclusive worldwide license under the relevant patents
    and patent applications relating to thalidomide. Several
    U.S. and European patents have been issued to CMCC in this
    patent family and certain of these patents expire in 2013 and
    2014. We have applied for and received Supplementary Protection
    Certificates, or SPCs, in Europe





    
    9



Table of Contents





    relative to certain of these issued CMCC thalidomide patents.
    These SPCs extend the terms of these patents relative to uses of
    thalidomide to 2019. Corresponding foreign patent applications
    and additional U.S. patent applications are still pending.


 


    In addition to the New Thalidomide Agreement, we entered into an
    agreement, entitled the “New Analog Agreement,” with
    CMCC and EntreMed in December 2002, pursuant to which we have
    been granted an exclusive worldwide license to certain CMCC
    patents and patent applications relating to thalidomide analogs.
    Under the New Analog Agreement, CMCC exclusively licensed to us
    these patents and patent applications, which relate to analogs,
    metabolites, precursors and hydrolysis products of thalidomide,
    and stereoisomers thereof. Under the New Analog Agreement, we
    are obligated to comply with certain milestones and other
    obligations, including those relating to
    REVLIMID®

    brand drug sales. The New Analog Agreement grants us control
    over the prosecution and maintenance of the licensed thalidomide
    analog patent rights.


 


    Our research leads us to seek patent protection for molecular
    targets and drug discovery technologies, as well as therapeutic
    and diagnostic products and processes. More specifically,
    proprietary technology has been developed for use in molecular
    target discovery, the identification of regulatory pathways in
    cells, assay design and the discovery and development of
    pharmaceutical product candidates. An increasing percentage of
    our recent patent applications have been related to potential
    product candidates or compounds. As of December 2010, included
    in those inventions described above, we owned, in whole or in
    part, over 100 issued U.S. patents and have filed over 110
    U.S. pending patent applications, including pending
    provisional applications, some of which are related to sponsored
    or collaborative research relationships.


 


    CCT, our cellular therapeutics subsidiary, seeks patent
    protection for the collection, processing, composition,
    formulation and uses of mammalian placental and umbilical cord
    tissue and placental and umbilical cord stem cells, as well as
    cells and biomaterials derived from the placenta. As of December
    2010, CCT owned, in whole or in part, 10 U.S. patents,
    including claims to novel cells and cellular compositions. In
    addition, CCT has approximately 60 U.S. patent
    applications, including pending provisional applications.


 


    Our patents are regularly subject to challenge by generic drug
    companies and manufacturers. See Part I, Item 3,
    “Legal Proceedings.” We rely on several different
    types of patents to protect our products, including, without
    limitation, compound, polymorph, formulation and method of use
    patents. We do not know whether any of these patents will be
    circumvented, invalidated or found unenforceable as a result of
    challenge by generic companies or manufacturers. For a more
    detailed discussion of risks related to our patent portfolio see
    Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”


 



    GOVERNMENTAL
    REGULATION/EXCLUSIVITIES AFFORDED BY REGULATORY
    AUTHORITIES


 


    Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and
    other countries is a significant factor in the manufacture and
    marketing of pharmaceuticals and in our ongoing research and
    development activities. Most, if not all, of our therapeutic
    products require regulatory approval by governmental agencies
    prior to commercialization. In particular, human therapeutic
    products are subject to rigorous preclinical testing and
    clinical trials and other pre-marketing approval requirements by
    the FDA and regulatory authorities in other countries. In the
    United States, various federal and, in some cases, state
    statutes and regulations also govern or impact upon the
    manufacturing, testing for safety and effectiveness, labeling,
    storage, record-keeping and marketing of such products. The
    lengthy process of seeking required approvals, and the
    continuing need for compliance with applicable statutes and
    regulations, requires the expenditure of substantial resources.
    Regulatory approval, if and when obtained, may be limited in
    scope which may significantly limit the indicated uses for which
    a product may be marketed. Further, approved drugs, as well as
    their manufacturers, are subject to ongoing review and discovery
    of previously unknown problems with such products or the
    manufacturing or quality control procedures used in their
    production may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale
    or use or in their withdrawal from the market. Any failure by
    us, our suppliers of manufactured drug product, collaborators or
    licensees to obtain or maintain, or any delay in obtaining,
    regulatory approvals could adversely affect the marketing of our
    products and our ability to receive product revenue, license
    revenue or profit sharing payments.


 


    The activities required before a product may be marketed in the
    United States begin with preclinical testing not involving human
    subjects. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of a
    product candidate’s chemistry and its





    
    10



Table of Contents





    biological activities and the conduct of animal studies to
    assess the potential safety and efficacy of a product candidate
    and its formulations. The results of these studies must be
    submitted to the FDA as part of an IND which must be reviewed by
    the FDA primarily for safety considerations before proposed
    clinical trials in humans can begin.


 


    Typically, clinical trials involve a three-phase process as
    previously described. In some cases, further studies (Phase
    IV) are required as a condition for a new drug application,
    or NDA, or biologics license application, or BLA, approval, to
    provide additional information concerning the drug or product.
    The FDA requires monitoring of all aspects of clinical trials,
    and reports of all adverse events must be made to the agency
    before drug approval. After approval, we have ongoing reporting
    obligations concerning adverse reactions associated with the
    drug, including expedited reports for serious and unexpected
    adverse events. Additionally, we may have limited control over
    studies conducted with our proprietary compounds or biologics if
    such studies are performed by others (e.g., cooperative groups).


 


    The results of the preclinical testing and clinical trials are
    submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA or BLA for evaluation to
    determine if the product is sufficiently safe and effective for
    approval to commence commercial sales. In responding to an NDA
    or BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional
    information or deny the application if it determines that the
    application does not satisfy its regulatory approval criteria.
    When an NDA or BLA is approved, the NDA or BLA holder must
    a) employ a system for obtaining reports of experience and
    side effects associated with the drug and make appropriate
    submissions to the FDA and b) timely advise the FDA if any
    marketed product fails to adhere to specifications established
    by the NDA or BLA internal manufacturing procedures.


 


    Pursuant to the Orphan Drug Act, a sponsor may request that the
    FDA designate a drug intended to treat a “rare disease or
    condition” as an “orphan drug.” The term
    “orphan drug” can refer to either a drug or biologic.
    A rare disease or condition is defined as one which affects less
    than 200,000 people in the United States, or which affects
    more than 200,000 people, but for which the cost of
    developing and making available the product is not expected to
    be recovered from sales of the product in the United States.
    Upon the approval of the first NDA or BLA for a drug designated
    as an orphan drug for a specified indication, the sponsor of
    that NDA or BLA is entitled to seven years of exclusive
    marketing rights in the United States for such drug or product
    containing the active ingredient for the same indication unless
    the sponsor cannot assure the availability of sufficient
    quantities of the drug to meet the needs of persons with the
    disease. However, orphan drug status is particular to the
    approved indication and does not prevent another company from
    seeking approval of other labeled indications. The period of
    orphan exclusivity is concurrent with any patent exclusivity
    that relates to the drug or biologic. Orphan drugs may also be
    eligible for federal income tax credits for costs associated
    with the drugs’ development. Possible amendment of the
    Orphan Drug Act by the U.S. Congress and possible
    reinterpretation by the FDA has been discussed by regulators and
    legislators. FDA regulations reflecting certain definitions,
    limitations and procedures for orphan drugs initially went into
    effect in January 1993 and were amended in certain respects in
    1998. Therefore, there is no assurance as to the precise scope
    of protection that may be afforded by orphan drug status in the
    future or that the current level of exclusivity and tax credits
    will remain in effect. Moreover, even if we have an orphan drug
    designation for a particular use of a drug, there can be no
    assurance that another company also holding orphan drug
    designation will not receive approval prior to us for the same
    indication. If that were to happen, our applications for that
    indication could not be approved until the competing
    company’s seven-year period of exclusivity expired. Even if
    we are the first to obtain approval for the orphan drug
    indication, there are certain circumstances under which a
    competing product may be approved for the same indication during
    our seven-year period of exclusivity. Further, particularly in
    the case of large molecule drugs or biologics, a question can be
    raised whether the competing product is really the “same
    drug” as that which was approved. In addition, even in
    cases in which two products appear to be the same drug, the
    agency may approve the second product based on a showing of
    clinical superiority compared to the first product. In order to
    increase the development and marketing of drugs for rare
    disorders, regulatory bodies outside the United States have
    enacted regulations similar to the Orphan Drug Act.
    REVLIMID®

    brand drug has been granted orphan medicinal product designation
    by the European Commission, or EC, for treatment of CLL
    following the favorable opinion of the European Medicines
    Agency’s, or EMA, Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products.


 


    Among the conditions for NDA or BLA approval is the requirement
    that the prospective manufacturer’s quality control and
    manufacturing procedures continually conform with the FDA’s
    current Good Manufacturing





    
    11



Table of Contents





    Practice, or cGMP, regulations (which are regulations
    established by the FDA governing the manufacture, processing,
    packing, storage and testing of drugs and biologics intended for
    human use). In complying with cGMP, manufacturers must devote
    extensive time, money and effort in the area of production and
    quality control and quality assurance to maintain full technical
    compliance. Manufacturing facilities and company records are
    subject to periodic inspections by the FDA to ensure compliance.
    If a manufacturing facility is not in substantial compliance
    with these requirements, regulatory enforcement action may be
    taken by the FDA, which may include seeking an injunction
    against shipment of products from the facility and recall of
    products previously shipped from the facility.


 


    Under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and
    Cosmetic Act, or the Act, products covered by approved NDAs or
    supplemental NDAs may be protected by periods of patent
    and/or
    non-patent exclusivity. During the exclusivity periods, the FDA
    is generally prevented from granting effective approval of an
    abbreviated NDA, or ANDA. Further, NDAs submitted under
    505(b)(2) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act may not reference
    data contained in the NDA for a product protected by an
    effective and unexpired exclusivity. ANDAs and 505(b)(2)
    applications are generally less burdensome than full NDAs in
    that, in lieu of new clinical data, the applications rely in
    whole, or in part, upon the safety and efficacy findings of the
    referenced approved drug in conjunction with bridging data,
    typically bioequivalence data. Upon the expiration of the
    applicable exclusivities, through passage of time or successful
    legal challenge, the FDA may grant effective approval of an ANDA
    for a generic drug, or may accept reference to a previously
    protected NDA in a 505(b)(2) application. Depending upon the
    scope of the applicable exclusivities, any such approval could
    be limited to certain formulations
    and/or
    indications/claims, i.e., those not covered by any outstanding
    exclusivities. While the Act provides for ANDA and 505(b)(2)
    abbreviated approval pathways for drugs earlier submitted as
    NDAs and approved under section 505 of the Act, there are
    presently no similar provisions for biologics submitted as BLAs
    and approved under the Public Health Service, or PHS, Act. There
    is currently no abbreviated application that would permit
    approval of a generic or “follow-on” biologic based on
    the FDA’s earlier approval of another manufacturer’s
    application under section 351 of the PHS Act.


 


    Failure to comply with applicable FDA regulatory requirements
    can result in enforcement actions such as warning letters,
    recalls or adverse publicity issued by the FDA or in legal
    actions such as seizures, injunctions, fines based on the
    equitable remedy of disgorgement, restitution and criminal
    prosecution.


 


    Approval procedures similar to those in the United States must
    be undertaken in virtually every other country comprising the
    market for our products before any such product can be
    commercialized in those countries. The approval procedure and
    the time required for approval vary from country to country and
    may involve additional testing. There can be no assurance that
    approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all. In
    addition, regulatory approval of drug and biologics pricing is
    required in most countries other than the United States. There
    can be no assurance that the resulting pricing of our products
    would be sufficient to generate an acceptable return to us.


 



    COMPETITION


 


    The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are each highly
    competitive. We also compete with universities and research
    institutions in the development of products and processes, and
    in the acquisition of technology from outside sources.


 


    Competition in the pharmaceutical industry, and specifically in
    the oncology and immune-inflammatory areas, is particularly
    intense. Numerous pharmaceutical, biotechnology and generic drug
    companies have extensive anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory drug
    discovery, development and commercial resources. Abbott
    Laboratories, Amgen Inc., or Amgen, AstraZeneca PLC., Biogen
    Idec Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., Eisai Co., Ltd.,
    F. Hoffmann-LaRoche Ltd., Johnson and Johnson, Merck and
    Co., Inc., Novartis AG, Pfizer, Sanofi-Aventis and Takeda
    Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., or Takeda, are among some of the
    companies researching and developing new compounds in the
    oncology, inflammation and immunology fields. We, along with
    other pharmaceutical brand-name makers, face the challenges
    brought on by generic drug manufacturers in their pursuit of
    obtaining bulk quantities of certain drugs in order for them to
    be able to develop similar versions of these products and be
    ready to market as soon as permitted.




    
    12



Table of Contents





    The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have undergone,
    and are expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant
    technological change. Consolidation and competition are expected
    to intensify as technical advances in each field are achieved
    and become more widely known. In order to compete effectively,
    we will be required to continually upgrade and expand our
    scientific expertise and technology, identify and retain capable
    personnel and pursue scientifically feasible and commercially
    viable opportunities.


 


    Our competition will be determined in part by the indications
    and geographic markets for which our products are developed and
    ultimately approved by regulatory authorities. The relative
    speed with which we develop new products, complete clinical
    trials, obtain regulatory approvals, receive pricing and
    reimbursement approvals, finalize agreements with outside
    contract manufacturers when needed and market our products are
    critical factors in gaining a competitive advantage. Competition
    among products approved for sale includes product efficacy,
    safety, convenience, reliability, availability, price,
    third-party reimbursement and patent and non-patent exclusivity.


 



    SIGNIFICANT
    ALLIANCES


 


    We have entered into a variety of alliances as is customary in
    our industry. Following is a description of the major agreements
    in place:


 


    Novartis Pharma AG:  We entered into an
    agreement with Novartis in which we granted to Novartis an
    exclusive worldwide license (excluding Canada) to develop and
    market
    FOCALIN®

    (d-methylphenidate, or d -MPH) and FOCALIN
    XR®,

    the long-acting drug formulation for attention deficit disorder,
    or ADD, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD.
    We also granted Novartis rights to all of our related
    intellectual property and patents, including formulations of the
    currently marketed RITALIN
    LA®.

    Under the agreement, we are entitled to receive up to
    $100.0 million in upfront and regulatory achievement
    milestone payments. To date, we have received upfront and
    regulatory achievement milestone payments totaling
    $55.0 million. We also sell
    FOCALIN®

    to Novartis and currently receive royalties of between 35% and
    30% on sales of all of Novartis’ FOCALIN
    XR®

    and
    RITALIN®

    family of ADHD-related products.


 


    The agreement will continue until the later of (i) the
    tenth anniversary of the first commercial launch on a
    country-by-country
    basis or (ii) when the last applicable patent expires with
    respect to that country. At the expiration date, we shall grant
    Novartis a perpetual, non-exclusive, royalty-free license to
    make, have made, use, import and sell d-MPH and
    Ritalin®

    under our technology.


 


    Prior to its expiration as described above, the agreement may be
    terminated by:


 


    i. Novartis at its sole discretion, effective
    12 months after written notice to us, or


 


    ii. by:


 


    a. either party if the other party materially breaches any
    of its material obligations under the agreement,


 


    b. us if Novartis fails to pay amounts due under the
    agreement two or more times in a
    12-month
    period,


 


    c. either party, on a
    product-by-product
    and
    country-by-country
    basis, in the event of withdrawal of the d-MPH product or
    Ritalin®

    product from the market because of regulatory mandate,


 


    d. either party if the other party files for bankruptcy.


 


    If the agreement is terminated by us then all licenses granted
    to Novartis under the agreement will terminate and Novartis will
    also grant us a non-exclusive license to certain of their
    intellectual property related to the compounds and products.


 


    If the agreement is terminated by Novartis then all licenses
    granted to Novartis under the agreement will terminate.


 


    If the agreement is terminated by Novartis because of a material
    breach by us, then Novartis can make a claim for damages against
    us and we shall grant Novartis a perpetual, non-exclusive,
    royalty-free license to make, have made, use, import and sell
    d-MPH and
    Ritalin®

    under our technology.




    
    13



Table of Contents





    When generic versions of long-acting methylphenidate
    hydrochloride and dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride enter the
    market, we expect Novartis’ sales of Ritalin
    LA®

    and Focalin
    XR®

    products to decrease and therefore our royalties under this
    agreement to also decrease.


 


    Array BioPharma Inc.:  We have a research
    collaboration agreement with Array BioPharma Inc., or Array,
    focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of
    novel therapeutics in cancer and inflammation. As part of this
    agreement, we made an upfront payment in September 2007 to Array
    of $40.0 million, which was recorded as research and
    development expense, in return for an option to receive
    exclusive worldwide rights for compounds developed against two
    of the four research targets defined in the agreement, except
    for Array’s limited U.S. co-promotional rights. In
    June 2009, we made an additional upfront payment of
    $4.5 million to expand the research targets defined in the
    agreement, which was recorded as research and development
    expense. Array will be responsible for all discovery and
    clinical development through Phase I or Phase IIa and be
    entitled to receive, for each compound, potential milestone
    payments of approximately $200.0 million if certain
    discovery, development and regulatory milestones are achieved,
    and $300.0 million if certain commercial milestones are
    achieved as well as royalties on net sales. During the fourth
    quarter of 2010, we made a $10.0 million discovery
    milestone payment required by the collaboration upon the filing
    and clearance of an IND with the FDA.


 


    Our option will terminate upon the earlier of either a
    termination of the agreement, the date we have exercised our
    options for compounds developed against two of the four research
    targets defined in the agreement, or September 21, 2012,
    unless the term is extended. We may unilaterally extend the
    option term for two additional one-year terms until
    September 21, 2014 and the parties may mutually extend the
    term for two additional one-year terms until September 21,
    2016. Upon exercise of an option, the agreement will continue
    until we have satisfied all royalty payment obligations to
    Array. Upon the expiration of the agreement, Array will grant us
    a fully
    paid-up,
    royalty-free license to use certain intellectual property of
    Array to market and sell the compounds and products developed
    under the agreement. The agreement may expire on a
    product-by-product
    and
    country-by-country
    basis as we satisfy our royalty payment obligation with respect
    to each product in each country.


 


    Prior to its expiration as described above, the agreement may be
    terminated by:


 


    (i) us at our sole discretion, or


 


    (ii) either party if the other party:


 


    a. materially breaches any of its material obligations
    under the agreement, or


 


    b. files for bankruptcy.


 


    If the agreement is terminated by us at our sole discretion or
    by Array for a material breach by us, then our rights to the
    compounds and products developed under the agreement will revert
    to Array. If the agreement is terminated by Array for a material
    breach by us, then we will also grant to Array a non-exclusive,
    royalty-free license to certain intellectual property controlled
    by us necessary to continue the development of such compounds
    and products. If the agreement is terminated by us for a
    material breach by Array, then, among other things, our payment
    obligations under the agreement could be either reduced by 50%
    or terminated entirely.


 


    Acceleron Pharma:  We have a worldwide
    strategic collaboration with Acceleron Pharma, or Acceleron, for
    the joint development and commercialization of ACE-011,
    currently being studied for treatment of chemotherapy-induced
    anemia, metastatic bone disease and renal anemia. The
    collaboration combines both companies’ resources and
    commitment to developing products for the treatment of cancer
    and cancer-related bone loss. The agreement also includes an
    option for certain discovery stage programs. Under the terms of
    the agreement, we and Acceleron will jointly develop,
    manufacture and commercialize Acceleron’s products for bone
    loss. We made an upfront payment to Acceleron in February 2008
    of $50.0 million, which included a $5.0 million equity
    investment in Acceleron, with the remainder recorded as research
    and development expense. In addition, in the event of an initial
    public offering of Acceleron, we will purchase a minimum of
    $7.0 million of Acceleron common stock.


 


    Acceleron will retain responsibility for initial activities,
    including research and development, through the end of Phase IIa
    clinical trials, as well as manufacturing the clinical supplies
    for these studies. In turn, we will conduct the Phase IIb and
    Phase III clinical studies and will oversee the manufacture
    of Phase III and commercial supplies. Acceleron will pay a
    share of the development expenses and is eligible to receive
    development, regulatory approval





    
    14



Table of Contents





    and sales-based milestones of up to $510.0 million for the
    ACE-011 program and up to an additional $437.0 million for
    each of the three discovery stage programs. The companies will
    co-promote the products in North America. Acceleron will receive
    tiered royalties on worldwide net sales, upon the
    commercialization of a development compound.


 


    The agreement will continue until we have satisfied all royalty
    payment obligations to Acceleron and we have either exercised or
    forfeited all of our options under the agreement. Upon our full
    satisfaction of our royalty payment obligations to Acceleron
    under the agreement, all licenses granted to us by Acceleron
    under the agreement will become fully
    paid-up,
    perpetual, non-exclusive, irrevocable and royalty-free licenses.
    The agreement may expire on a
    product-by-product
    and
    country-by-country
    basis as we satisfy our royalty payment obligation with respect
    to each product in each country.


 


    Prior to its expiration as described above, the agreement may be
    terminated by:


 


    (i) us at our sole discretion, or


 


    (ii) either party if the other party:


 


    a. materially breaches any of its material obligations
    under the agreement, or


 


    b. files for bankruptcy.


 


    If the agreement is terminated by us at our sole discretion or
    by Acceleron for a material breach by us, then all licenses
    granted to us under the agreement will terminate and we will
    also grant to Acceleron a non-exclusive license to certain of
    our intellectual property related to the compounds and products.
    If the agreement is terminated by us for a material breach by
    Acceleron, then, among other things, (A) the licenses
    granted to Acceleron under the agreement will terminate,
    (B) the licenses granted to us will continue in perpetuity,
    (C) all future royalties payable by us under the agreement
    will be reduced by 50% and (D) our obligation to make any
    future milestone payments will terminate.


 


    Cabrellis Pharmaceuticals Corp.:  We, as a
    result of our acquisition of Pharmion, obtained an exclusive
    license to develop and commercialize amrubicin in North America
    and Europe pursuant to a license agreement with Dainippon
    Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd, or DSP. Pursuant to Pharmion’s
    acquisition of Cabrellis Pharmaceutics Corp., or Cabrellis,
    prior to our acquisition of Pharmion, we will pay
    $12.5 million for each approval of amrubicin in an initial
    indication by regulatory authorities in the United States and
    the E.U. to the former shareholders of Cabrellis. Upon approval
    of amrubicin for a second indication in the United States or the
    E.U., we will pay an additional $10.0 million for each
    market to the former shareholders of Cabrellis. Under the terms
    of the license agreement for amrubicin, we are required to make
    milestone payments of $7.0 million and $1.0 million to
    DSP upon regulatory approval of amrubicin in the United States
    and upon receipt of the first approval in the E.U.,
    respectively, and up to $17.5 million upon achieving
    certain annual sales levels in the United States. Pursuant to
    the supply agreement for amrubicin, we are to pay DSP a
    semiannual supply price calculated as a percentage of net sales
    for a period of ten years. In September 2008, amrubicin was
    granted fast-track product designation by the FDA for the
    treatment of small cell lung cancer after first-line
    chemotherapy.


 


    The amrubicin license expires on a
    country-by-country
    basis and on a
    product-by-product
    basis upon the later of (i) the tenth anniversary of the
    first commercial sale of the applicable product in a given
    country after the issuance of marketing authorization in such
    country and (ii) the first day of the first quarter for
    which the total number of generic product units sold in a given
    country exceeds 20% of the total number of generic product units
    sold plus licensed product units sold in the relevant country
    during the same calendar quarter.


 


    Prior to its expiration as described above, the amrubicin
    license may be terminated by:


 


    (i) us at our sole discretion,


 


    (ii) either party if the other party:


 


    a. materially breaches any of its material obligations
    under the agreement, or


 


    b. files for bankruptcy,


 


    (iii) DSP if we take any action to challenge the title or
    validity of the patents owned by DSP, or


 


    (iv) DSP in the event of our change in control.




    
    15



Table of Contents




 


    If the agreement is terminated by us at our sole discretion or
    by DSP under circumstances described in clauses (ii)(a) and
    (iii) above, then we will transfer our rights to the
    compounds and products developed under the agreement to DSP and
    will also grant to DSP a non-exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free
    license to certain intellectual property controlled by us
    necessary to continue the development of such compounds and
    products. If the agreement is terminated by us for a material
    breach by DSP, then, among other things, DSP will grant to us an
    exclusive, perpetual,
    paid-up
    license to all of the intellectual property of DSP necessary to
    continue the development, marketing and selling of the compounds
    and products subject to the agreement.


 


    GlobeImmune, Inc.:  In September 2007, we made
    a $3.0 million equity investment in GlobeImmune, Inc., or
    GlobeImmune. In April 2009 and May 2009, we made additional
    $0.1 million and $10.0 million equity investments,
    respectively, in GlobeImmune. In addition, we have a
    collaboration and option agreement with GlobeImmune focused on
    the discovery, development and commercialization of novel
    therapeutics in cancer. As part of this agreement, we made an
    upfront payment in May 2009 of $30.0 million, which was
    recorded as research and development expense, to GlobeImmune in
    return for the option to license compounds and products based on
    the GI-4000, GI-6200, GI-3000 and GI-10000 oncology drug
    candidate programs as well as oncology compounds and products
    resulting from future programs controlled by GlobeImmune.
    GlobeImmune will be responsible for all discovery and clinical
    development until we exercise our option with respect to a drug
    candidate program and GlobeImmune will be entitled to receive
    potential milestone payments of approximately
    $230.0 million for the GI-4000 program, $145.0 million
    for each of the GI-6200, GI-3000 and GI-10000 programs and
    $161.0 million for each additional future program if
    certain development, regulatory and sales-based milestones are
    achieved. GlobeImmune will also receive tiered royalties on
    worldwide net sales.


 


    Our options with respect to the GI-4000, GI-6200, GI-3000 and
    GI-10000 oncology drug candidate programs will terminate if we
    do not exercise our respective options after delivery of certain
    reports from GlobeImmune on the completed clinical trials with
    respect to each drug candidate program, as set forth in the
    initial development plan specified in the agreement. If we do
    not exercise our options with respect to any drug candidate
    program or future program, our option with respect to the
    oncology products resulting from future programs controlled by
    GlobeImmune will terminate three years after the last of the
    options with respect to the GI-4000, GI-6200, GI-3000 and
    GI-10000 oncology drug candidate programs terminates. Upon our
    exercise of an option, the agreement will continue until we have
    satisfied all royalty payment obligations to GlobeImmune. Upon
    the expiration of the agreement, on a
    product-by-product,
    country-by-country
    basis, GlobeImmune will grant us an exclusive, fully
    paid-up,
    royalty-free, perpetual license to use certain intellectual
    property of GlobeImmune to market and sell the compounds and
    products developed under the agreement. The agreement may expire
    on a
    product-by-product
    and
    country-by-country
    basis as we satisfy our royalty payment obligation with respect
    to each product in each country.


 


    Prior to its expiration as described above, the agreement may be
    terminated by:


 


    (i) us at our sole discretion, or


 


    (ii) either party if the other party:


 


    a. materially breaches any of its material obligations
    under the agreement, or


 


    b. files for bankruptcy.


 


    If the agreement is terminated by us at our sole discretion or
    by GlobeImmune for a material breach by us, then our rights to
    the compounds and products developed under the agreement will
    revert to GlobeImmune. If the agreement is terminated by us for
    a material breach by GlobeImmune, then, among other things, our
    royalty payment obligations under the agreement will be reduced
    by 50%, our development milestone payment obligations under the
    agreement will be reduced by 50% or terminated entirely and our
    sales milestone payment obligations under the agreement will be
    terminated entirely.


 


    Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc.:  On April 14,
    2010, we entered into a discovery and development collaboration
    and license agreement with Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or
    Agios, which focuses on cancer metabolism targets and the
    discovery, development and commercialization of associated
    therapeutics. As part of the agreement, we paid Agios a
    $121.2 million non-refundable, upfront payment, which was
    expensed by us as research and development in the second quarter
    of 2010. We also made an $8.8 million equity investment in
    Agios Series B Convertible Preferred





    
    16



Table of Contents





    Stock, representing approximately a 10.94% ownership interest in
    Agios and is included in other non-current assets in our
    Consolidated Balance Sheet. We receive an initial period of
    exclusivity during which we have the option to develop any drugs
    resulting from the Agios cancer metabolism research platform and
    may extend this exclusivity period by providing Agios additional
    funding. We have an exclusive option to license any resulting
    clinical candidates developed during this period and will lead
    and fund global development and commercialization of certain
    licensed programs. With respect to each product in a program
    that we choose to license, Agios could receive up to
    $120.0 million upon achievement of certain milestones plus
    royalties on sales, and Agios may also participate in the
    development and commercialization of certain products in the
    United States. Agios may also receive a one-time milestone
    payment of $25.0 million upon dosing of the final human
    subject in a Phase II study, such payment to be made only
    once with respect to only one program.


 


    Unless the agreement is earlier terminated or the option term is
    extended, our option will terminate on April 14, 2013.
    However, if certain development targets are not met, we may
    unilaterally extend the option term: (a) for up to an
    additional one year without payment; (b) subject to certain
    criteria and upon payment of certain predetermined amounts to
    Agios, for up to two additional years thereafter.


 


    Following expiration of the option, the agreement will continue
    in place with respect to programs to which we have exercised our
    option or otherwise are granted rights to develop. The agreement
    may expire on a
    product-by-product
    and
    country-by-country
    basis as we satisfy our payment obligation with respect to each
    product in each country. Upon the expiration of the agreement
    with respect to a product in a country, all licenses granted by
    one party to the other party for such product in such country
    shall become fully
    paid-up,
    perpetual, sub licensable, irrevocable and royalty-free.


 


    Prior to its expiration as described above, the agreement may be
    terminated by:


 


    (i) us at its sole discretion, or


 


    (ii) either party if the other party:


 


    a. materially breaches the agreement and fails to cure such
    breach within the specified period, or


 


    b. files for bankruptcy.


 


    The party terminating under (i) or (ii)(a) above has the
    right to terminate on a
    program-by-program
    basis leaving the agreement in effect with respect to remaining
    programs. If the agreement or any program is terminated by us
    for convenience or by Agios for a material breach or bankruptcy
    by us, then, among other things, depending on the type of
    program and territorial rights: (a) certain licenses
    granted by us to Agios shall stay in place, subject to
    Agios’ payment of certain royalties to us: and (b) we
    will grant Agios a non-exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free
    license to certain technology developed in the conduct of the
    collaboration and used in the program (which license is
    exclusive with respect to certain limited collaboration
    technology). If the agreement or any program is terminated by us
    for a material breach or bankruptcy by Agios, then, among other
    things, all licenses granted by us to Agios will terminate and:
    (i) our license from Agios will continue in perpetuity and
    all payment obligations will be reduced or will terminate;
    (ii) our license for certain programs will become exclusive
    worldwide: and (iii) with regard to any program where we
    have exercised buy-in rights, Agios shall continue to pay
    certain royalties to us.


 


    We have determined that Agios is a variable interest entity;
    however, we are not the primary beneficiary of Agios. Although
    we would have the right to receive the benefits from the
    collaboration and license agreement and it is probable that this
    agreement incorporates the activities that most significantly
    impact the economic performance of Agios for up to six years, we
    do not have the power to direct the activities under the
    collaboration and license agreement as Agios has the
    decision-making authority for the Joint Steering Committee and
    Joint Research Committee until we exercise our option to license
    a product. Our interest in Agios is limited to our 10.94% equity
    ownership and we do not have any obligations or rights to the
    future losses or returns of Agios beyond this ownership. The
    collaboration agreement, including the upfront payment and
    series B convertible preferred stock investment, does not
    entitle us to participate in future returns beyond the 10.94%
    ownership and it does not obligate us to absorb future losses
    beyond the $8.8 million investment in Agios Series B
    Convertible Preferred Stock. In addition, there are no other
    agreements other than the collaboration agreement that entitle
    us to receive returns beyond the 10.94% ownership or obligate us
    to absorb additional losses.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    MANUFACTURING


 


    We own and operate an FDA approved manufacturing facility in
    Zofingen, Switzerland which produces the active pharmaceutical
    ingredient, or API, for
    REVLIMID®

    and
    THALOMID®

    and have contracted with FDA approved Aptuit Inc. to provide
    backup API manufacturing services in accordance with our
    specifications. We also own and operate an FDA approved drug
    product manufacturing facility in Boudry, Switzerland which is
    used for the formulation, encapsulation, packaging, warehousing
    and distribution of
    REVLIMID®

    and
    THALOMID®.

    Our backup FDA approved drug product manufacturing service
    providers include Penn Pharmaceutical Ltd. and Institute of Drug
    Technology Australia Ltd. Our packaging service providers
    include Sharp Corporation for worldwide packaging and Acino
    Holding Ltd. for
    non-U.S. packaging.


 


    As a result of the acquisition of Abraxis, we obtained
    manufacturing facilities in Melrose Park, Illinois; Phoenix,
    Arizona; Oelwein, Iowa; Elk Grove Village, Illinois and
    Barceloneta, Puerto Rico. A portion of the manufacturing
    facility in Melrose Park has been leased to APP Pharmaceuticals,
    Inc., or APP, and APP has agreed to provide certain contract
    manufacturing services to us in accordance with the terms of the
    manufacturing agreement. In addition, we lease from APP a
    portion of APP’s Grand Island, New York manufacturing
    facility to enable us to perform our responsibilities under the
    manufacturing agreement with APP for its term. The initial term
    of the manufacturing agreement will expire on December 31,
    2011, but could be extended for one year if either APP exercises
    its option to extend the lease for our Melrose Park
    manufacturing facility for an additional year or we exercise our
    option to extend the lease for APP’s Grand Island
    manufacturing facility for an additional year.
    ABRAXANE®

    is manufactured at both the Melrose Park and Grand Island
    facilities. The Puerto Rico facility is an API manufacturing
    plant which is currently not in use.


 


    Prior to a 2007 separation agreement, Abraxis and APP had been a
    single company named American Pharmaceutical Partners, Inc. In
    2007, American Pharmaceutical Partners, Inc. was separated into
    two independent publicly traded companies: Abraxis which was
    focused on oncology and research activities; and APP, which was
    focused on hospital-based activities. After the separation, APP
    was purchased by Fresenius, a publicly traded global health care
    company.


 


    The API for
    VIDAZA®

    is supplied by Ash Stevens, Inc. and Carbogen Amcis. We also
    have contract manufacturing agreements with Baxter GmbH and Ben
    Venue Laboratories, Inc., or Ben Venue, for
    VIDAZA®

    product formulation, filling vials and packaging. Our packaging
    service provider for
    non-U.S. packaging
    is Catalent Pharma Solutions.


 


    The API for
    ISTODAX®

    is supplied by Sandoz and Ben Venue provides the product
    formulation, filling vials and packaging.


 


    The API for
    FOCALIN®

    and FOCALIN
    XR®

    is currently obtained from two suppliers, Johnson Matthey Inc.
    and Siegfried USA Inc., and we rely on a single manufacturer,
    Mikart, Inc., for the tableting and packaging of
    FOCALIN®

    finished product.


 


    CCT currently operates an FDA registered facility in Cedar
    Knolls, New Jersey for the recovery and storage of cord blood
    and placental stem cells for
    LifeBankUSA®.

    In addition, our Warren, New Jersey facility is FDA registered
    for production of PDA-001, a culture-expanded placenta-derived
    stem cell under cGMP to supply clinical studies. This is a
    multi-purpose facility capable of supporting other products.


 



    INTERNATIONAL
    OPERATIONS


 


    We have significant operations outside the United States
    conducted both through our subsidiaries and through
    distributors. Revenues from operations outside the United States
    were 39.6% of total revenues in 2010, 35.6% of total revenues in
    2009 and 29.8% of total revenues in 2008. The increase in the
    percentage of total revenues from outside of the United States
    is the result of our ongoing efforts to increase the
    availability of our products to patients.


 


    Our international headquarters and a drug product manufacturing
    facility which performs formulation, encapsulation, packaging,
    warehousing and distribution are located in Boudry, Switzerland.
    We continue to expand our international regulatory, clinical and
    commercial infrastructure and currently conduct our
    international





    
    18



Table of Contents





    operations in over 65 countries and regions including Europe,
    Latin America, Middle East, Asia/Pacific and Canada.


 


    Our international operations are subject to risks associated
    with operating on an international basis including currency
    fluctuations, price and exchange controls and other restrictive
    governmental actions. Our international operations are also
    subject to government-imposed constraints including laws on
    pricing, reimbursement and access to our products. Depending on
    the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar,
    foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported
    dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. While
    we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign
    exchange rates or the effect they will have, we attempt to
    mitigate their impact through operational means and by using
    foreign currency forward contracts. See the discussions under
    “Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk.”


 



    SALES AND
    COMMERCIALIZATION


 


    We endeavor to promote our brands globally through our highly
    trained commercial organization that has significant experience
    in the pharmaceutical industry, especially in the areas of
    oncology and immunology. Our commercial organization supports
    our currently marketed brands and prepares for the launches of
    new products as well as new indications for existing products.
    We have a team of dedicated Market Access professionals to help
    physicians, patients and payers understand the value our
    products deliver. Given our goal to ensure that patients who
    might benefit from our therapies have the opportunity to do so
    and given the complex reimbursement environment in the United
    States, we offer the services of Celgene Patient
    Support®.

    Celgene Patient
    Support®

    provides a dedicated, central point of contact for patients and
    healthcare professionals who use Celgene products. Celgene
    Patient
    Support®

    is a free service that helps patients and healthcare
    professionals navigate the challenges of reimbursement,
    providing information about co-pay assistance, and answering
    questions about obtaining Celgene products.


 


    In most countries, we sell our products through our own sales
    organizations. In some countries, particularly in Latin America,
    we partner with other third-party distributors. (See Section
    “COMMERCIAL STAGE PRODUCTS” above.) Generally, we
    distribute our products through the commonly used channels in
    local markets. However,
    REVLIMID®

    and
    THALOMID®

    (inclusive of Thalidomide
    Celgene®

    and Thalidomide
    Pharmion®)

    are distributed under mandatory risk-management distribution
    programs tailored to meet local competent authorities’
    specifications to help ensure their safe and appropriate
    distribution and use.


 



    EMPLOYEES


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we had 4,182 full-time
    company-wide employees, 526 of which were engaged primarily in
    manufacturing, 1,983 engaged primarily in research and
    development activities, 1,013 engaged primarily in sales and
    commercialization activities and the remainder engaged primarily
    in executive and general and administrative activities. The
    number of full-time employees in our international operations
    has grown from 1,051 at the end of 2009 to 1,273 at the end of
    2010. We also employ a number of part-time employees and
    maintain consulting arrangements with a number of researchers at
    various universities and other research institutions around the
    world.


 



    FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS


 


    Certain statements contained or incorporated by reference in
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    are forward-looking statements concerning our business, results
    of operations, economic performance and financial condition
    based on our current expectations. Forward-looking statements
    within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
    1933, as amended and within the meaning of Section 21E of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange
    Act, are included, for example, in the discussions about:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    strategy;




 



     
        • 

    
    new product discovery and development;




 



     
        • 

    
    current or pending clinical trials;







    
    19



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our products’ ability to demonstrate efficacy or an
    acceptable safety profile;




 



     
        • 

    
    actions by the FDA;




 



     
        • 

    
    product manufacturing, including our arrangements with
    third-party suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    product introduction and sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    royalties and contract revenues;




 



     
        • 

    
    expenses and net income;




 



     
        • 

    
    credit and foreign exchange risk management;




 



     
        • 

    
    liquidity;




 



     
        • 

    
    asset and liability risk management; and




 



     
        • 

    
    operational and legal risks.





 


    From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in
    other materials we release to the public, as well as oral
    forward-looking statements. All our forward-looking statements
    give our then current expectations or forecasts of future
    events. None of our forward-looking statements are guarantees of
    future performance, although we believe we have been prudent in
    our plans and assumptions. Each forward-looking statement
    involves risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate
    assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially
    from those implied by our forward-looking statement. Should
    known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should
    underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could
    differ materially from past results and those anticipated,
    estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you
    consider our forward-looking statements. Given these risks,
    uncertainties and assumptions, you are cautioned not to place
    undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.


 


    We have tried, wherever possible, to identify these
    forward-looking statements by using words such as
    “forecast,” “project,”
    “anticipate,” “plan,” “strategy,”
    “intend,” “potential,” “outlook,”
    “target,” “seek,” “continue,”
    “believe,” “could,” “estimate,”
    “expect,” “may,” “probable,”
    “should,” “will” or other words of similar
    meaning in conjunction with, among other things, discussions of
    our future operations, business plans and prospects, prospective
    products or product approvals, our strategies for growth,
    product development and regulatory approval, our expenses, the
    impact of foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies,
    such as legal proceedings, and our financial performance and
    results generally. You also can identify our forward-looking
    statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to
    historical or current facts.


 


    We provide in this report a cautionary discussion of risks and
    uncertainties relevant to our business under the headings
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations.” We note these factors as
    permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate,
    we think could cause our actual results to differ materially
    from expected and historical results. You should understand,
    however, that it is not possible to predict or identify all such
    factors. Consequently, you should not consider the factors that
    are noted to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or
    uncertainties.


 


    Except as required under the federal securities laws and the
    rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
    or SEC, we disclaim and do not undertake any obligations to
    update or revise publicly any of our forward-looking statements,
    including forward-looking statements in this report, whether as
    a result of new information, future events, changes in
    assumptions, or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult
    any further disclosure we make on related subjects in our
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q
    and Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    filed with or furnished to the SEC.




    
    20



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    The following statements describe the major risks to our
    business and should be considered carefully. Any of these
    factors could significantly and negatively affect our business,
    prospects, financial condition, operating results or credit
    ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock
    to decline. The risks described below are not the only risks we
    may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known
    to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, could
    also negatively affect our business, our results and operations.


 



    We may
    experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating
    results which could cause our financial results to be below
    expectations and cause our stock price to be
    volatile.


 


    We have historically experienced, and may continue to
    experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating
    results. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many
    of which are outside our control, and may result in volatility
    of our stock price. Future operating results will depend on many
    factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    demand or lack of demand for our products, including demand that
    adversely affects our ability to optimize the use of our
    manufacturing facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    the introduction and pricing of products competitive with ours,
    including generic competition;




 



     
        • 

    
    developments regarding the safety or efficacy of our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory approvals for our products and pricing determinations
    with respect to our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulatory approvals for our and our competitor’s
    manufacturing facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    timing and levels of spending for research and development,
    sales and marketing;




 



     
        • 

    
    timing and levels of reimbursement from third-party payers for
    our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    development or expansion of business infrastructure in new
    clinical and geographic markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    the acquisition of new products and companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate;




 



     
        • 

    
    timing and recognition of certain research and development
    milestones and license fees;




 



     
        • 

    
    ability to control our costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    economic and market instability.





 



    We are
    dependent on the continued commercial success of our primary
    products
    REVLIMID®,

    VIDAZA®,

    THALOMID®

    and
    ABRAXANE®

    and a significant decline in demand for or use of these
    products or our other commercially available products could
    materially and adversely affect our operating results.
    


 


    During the next several years, the growth of our business will
    be largely dependent on the commercial success of
    REVLIMID®,

    VIDAZA®,

    THALOMID®,

    and
    ABRAXANE®.

    We cannot predict whether these or our other existing or new
    products will be accepted by regulators, physicians, patients
    and other key opinion leaders as effective drugs with certain
    advantages over existing or future therapies. We are continuing
    to introduce our products in additional international markets
    and to obtain approvals for additional indications both in the
    United States and internationally. A delay in gaining the
    requisite regulatory approvals for these markets or indications
    could negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our
    stock.


 


    Further, if unexpected adverse experiences are reported in
    connection with the use of our products, physician and patient
    comfort with the product could be undermined, the commercial
    success of such products could be adversely affected and the
    acceptance of our other products could be negatively impacted.
    We are subject to adverse event reporting regulations that
    require us to report to the FDA or similar bodies in other
    countries if our products are associated with a death or serious
    injury. These adverse events, among others, could result in
    additional regulatory controls, such as the performance of
    costly post-approval clinical studies or revisions to our
    approved





    
    21



Table of Contents





    labeling, which could limit the indications or patient
    population for our products or could even lead to the withdrawal
    of a product from the market. Similarly, the occurrence of
    serious adverse events known or suspected to be related to the
    products could negatively impact product sales. For example,
    THALOMID®

    is known to be toxic to the human fetus and exposure to the drug
    during pregnancy could result in significant deformities in the
    baby.
    REVLIMID®

    is also considered fetal toxic and there are warnings against
    use of
    VIDAZA®

    in pregnant women as well. While we have restricted distribution
    systems for both
    THALOMID®

    and
    REVLIMID®

    and we endeavor to educate patients regarding the potential
    known adverse events including pregnancy risks, we cannot ensure
    that all such warnings and recommendations will be complied with
    or that adverse events resulting from non-compliance will not
    have a material adverse effect on our business.


 


    It is necessary that our primary products achieve and maintain
    market acceptance as well as our other products including
    ISTODAX®,

    FOCALIN
    XR®

    and the
    RITALIN®

    family of drugs. A number of factors may adversely impact the
    degree of market acceptance of our products, including the
    products’ efficacy, safety and advantages, if any, over
    competing products, as well as the reimbursement policies of
    third-party payers, such as government and private insurance
    plans, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects.


 



    If we
    do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products we
    will be unable to sell our current products and products in
    development.


 


    Changes in law, government regulations or policies can have a
    significant impact on our results of operations. The discovery,
    preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, risk
    evaluation and mitigation strategies (such as our
    S.T.E.P.S.®

    and
    RevAssist®

    programs), marketing and labeling of pharmaceuticals and
    biologics are all subject to extensive laws and regulations,
    including, without limitation, the U.S. Federal Food, Drug,
    and Cosmetic Act, the U.S. Public Health Service Act,
    Medicare Modernization Act, Food and Drug Administration
    Amendments Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the
    Sherman Antitrust Act, patent laws, environmental laws, privacy
    laws and other federal and state statutes, including
    anti-kickback, antitrust and false claims laws, as well as
    similar laws in foreign jurisdictions. Enforcement of and
    changes in laws, government regulations or policies can have a
    significant adverse impact on our ability to continue to
    commercialize our products or introduce new products to the
    market, which would adversely affect our results of operations.


 


    If we or our agents, contractors or collaborators are delayed in
    receiving, or are unable to obtain all, necessary governmental
    approvals, we will be unable to effectively market our products.


 


    The testing, marketing and manufacturing of our products
    requires regulatory approval, including approval from the FDA
    and, in some cases, from the Environmental Protection Agency, or
    EPA, or governmental authorities outside of the United States
    that perform roles similar to those of the FDA and EPA,
    including the EMA, EC, the Swissmedic, the Australian
    Therapeutic Goods Administration and Health Canada. Certain of
    our pharmaceutical products, such as
    FOCALIN®,

    fall under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 that requires
    authorization by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA,
    of the U.S. Department of Justice in order to handle and
    distribute these products.


 


    The regulatory approval process presents a number of risks to
    us, principally:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In general, preclinical tests and clinical trials can take many
    years, and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and
    the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible
    to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent
    regulatory approval;




 



     
        • 

    
    Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the
    regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical or
    other data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure
    of the product to meet, a regulatory agency’s requirements
    for safety, efficacy and quality or, in the case of a product
    seeking an orphan drug indication, because another designee
    received approval first or receives approval of other labeled
    indications;




 



     
        • 

    
    Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to
    changes in regulatory agency policy, or the adoption of new
    regulations or legislation;







    
    22



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may
    significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may
    be marketed and reimbursed and may impose significant
    limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions and
    contra-indications that could materially affect the sales and
    profitability of the drug;




 



     
        • 

    
    Approved products, as well as their manufacturers, are subject
    to continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of previously
    unknown problems with these products or the failure to adhere to
    manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in
    restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their
    withdrawal from the market;




 



     
        • 

    
    Regulatory authorities and agencies of the United States or
    foreign governments may promulgate additional regulations
    restricting the sale of our existing and proposed products,
    including specifically tailored risk evaluation and mitigation
    strategies;




 



     
        • 

    
    Guidelines and recommendations published by various governmental
    and non-governmental organizations can reduce the use of our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Once a product receives marketing approval, we may not market
    that product for broader or different applications, and the FDA
    may not grant us approval with respect to separate product
    applications that represent extensions of our basic technology.
    In addition, the FDA may withdraw or modify existing approvals
    in a significant manner or promulgate additional regulations
    restricting the sale of our present or proposed products. The
    FDA may also request that we perform additional clinical trials
    or change the labeling of our existing or proposed products if
    we or others identify side effects after our products are on the
    market;




 



     
        • 

    
    Products, such as
    REVLIMID®,

    that are subject to accelerated approval can be subject to an
    expedited withdrawal if the post-marketing study commitments are
    not completed with due diligence, the post-marketing
    restrictions are not adhered to or are shown to be inadequate to
    assure the safe use of the drug, or evidence demonstrates that
    the drug is not shown to be safe and effective under its
    conditions of use. Additionally, promotional materials for such
    products are subject to enhanced surveillance, including
    pre-approval review of all promotional materials used within
    120 days following marketing approval and a requirement for
    the submissions 30 days prior to initial dissemination of
    all promotional materials disseminated after 120 days
    following marketing approval; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Our risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, labeling and
    promotional activities relating to our products as well as our
    post-marketing activities are regulated by the FDA, the Federal
    Trade Commission, The United States Department of Justice, the
    DEA, state regulatory agencies and foreign regulatory agencies
    and are subject to associated risks. In addition, individual
    states, acting through their attorneys general, have become
    active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of
    prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false
    advertising laws. If we fail to comply with regulations
    regarding the promotion and sale of our products, appropriate
    distribution of our products under our restricted distribution
    systems, prohibition on off-label promotion and the promotion of
    unapproved products, such agencies may bring enforcement actions
    against us that could inhibit our commercial capabilities as
    well as result in significant penalties.





 


    Other matters that may be the subject of governmental or
    regulatory action which could adversely affect our business
    include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in laws and regulations, including without limitation,
    patent, environmental, privacy, health care and competition laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at
    prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign
    countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    additional restrictions on interactions with healthcare
    professionals; and




 



     
        • 

    
    privacy restrictions that may limit our ability to share data
    from foreign jurisdictions.





 


    We collect placentas and umbilical cord blood for our unrelated
    allogeneic and private stem cell banking businesses. The
    FDA’s Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research
    currently regulates human tissue or cells intended for
    transplantation, implantation, infusion or transfer to a human
    recipient under 21 CFR Parts 1270 and





    
    23



Table of Contents





    1271. Part 1271 requires cell and tissue establishments to
    screen and test donors, to prepare and follow written procedures
    for the prevention of the spread of communicable disease and to
    register the establishment with FDA. This part also provides for
    inspection by the FDA of cell and tissue establishments. The FDA
    recently announced that as of October 21, 2011, a BLA will
    be required to distribute cord blood for unrelated allogeneic
    use. Currently, we are required to be, and are, licensed to
    operate in New York, New Jersey, Maryland and California. If
    other states adopt similar licensing requirements, we would need
    to obtain such licenses to continue operating our stem cell
    banking businesses. If we are delayed in receiving, or are
    unable to obtain at all, necessary licenses, we will be unable
    to provide services in those states and this could impact
    negatively on our revenues.


 



    Sales
    of our products will be significantly reduced if access to and
    reimbursement for our products by governmental and other
    third-party payers is reduced or terminated.


 


    Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to
    which the costs of our products will be paid by health
    maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar health
    care management organizations, or reimbursed by government
    health administration authorities, private health coverage
    insurers and other third-party payers. Generally, in Europe and
    other countries outside the United States, the
    government-sponsored healthcare system is the primary payer of
    healthcare costs of patients. These health care management
    organizations and third-party payers are increasingly
    challenging the prices charged for medical products and
    services. Additionally, the newly enacted Health Care Reform Act
    has provided sweeping health care reform, which may impact the
    prices of drugs. In addition to the newly enacted federal
    legislation, state legislatures and foreign governments have
    also shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment
    programs, including price controls, restrictions on
    reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic
    products. The establishment of limitations on patient access to
    our drugs, adoption of price controls and cost-containment
    measures in new jurisdictions or programs, and adoption of more
    restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and
    measures, including the impact of the Health Care Reform Act,
    could adversely impact our business and future results. If these
    organizations and third-party payers do not consider our
    products to be cost-effective compared to other available
    therapies, they may not reimburse providers or consumers of our
    products or, if they do, the level of reimbursement may not be
    sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable
    basis.


 


    Our ability to sell our products to hospitals in the United
    States depends in part on our relationships with group
    purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Many existing and potential
    customers for our products become members of GPOs. GPOs
    negotiate pricing arrangements and contracts, sometimes on an
    exclusive basis, with medical supply manufacturers and
    distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to
    a GPO’s affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are
    not one of the providers selected by a GPO, affiliated hospitals
    and other members may be less likely to purchase our products,
    and if the GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share
    compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer’s
    products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of
    the GPO for the duration of the contractual arrangement. Our
    failure to renew contracts with GPOs may cause us to lose market
    share and could have a material adverse effect on our sales,
    financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure
    you that we will be able to renew these contracts at the current
    or substantially similar terms. If we are unable to keep our
    relationships and develop new relationships with GPOs, our
    competitive position may suffer.


 


    We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most
    countries outside the United States. International operations
    are generally subject to extensive governmental price controls
    and other market regulations, and we believe the increasing
    emphasis on cost-containment initiatives in Europe and other
    countries has and will continue to put pressure on the price and
    usage of our products. Although we cannot predict the extent to
    which our business may be affected by future cost-containment
    measures or other potential legislative or regulatory
    developments, additional foreign price controls or other changes
    in pricing regulation could restrict the amount that we are able
    to charge for our current and future products, which could
    adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.


 



    Our
    long-term success depends, in part, on intellectual property
    protection.


 


    Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and
    enforce patents, protect trade secrets, obtain licenses to
    technology owned by third parties and to conduct our business
    without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The
    patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical
    companies, including ours, can be uncertain





    
    24



Table of Contents





    and involve complex legal and factual questions including those
    related to our risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (such
    as our
    S.T.E.P.S.®

    and
    RevAssist®

    programs). In addition, the coverage sought in a patent
    application can be significantly reduced before the patent is
    issued.


 


    Consequently, we do not know whether any of our owned or
    licensed pending patent applications, which have not already
    been allowed, will result in the issuance of patents or, if any
    patents are issued, whether they will be dominated by
    third-party patent rights, whether they will provide significant
    proprietary protection or commercial advantage or whether they
    will be circumvented, opposed, invalidated, rendered
    unenforceable or infringed by others. Further, we are aware of
    third-party U.S. patents that relate to, for example, the
    use of certain stem cell technologies and cannot be assured as
    to any impact to our potential products, or guarantee that our
    patents or pending applications will not be involved in, or be
    defeated as a result of, opposition proceedings before a foreign
    patent office or any interference proceedings before the United
    States Patent & Trademark Office, or PTO.


 


    With respect to patents and patent applications we have
    licensed-in, there can be no assurance that additional patents
    will be issued to any of the third parties from whom we have
    licensed patent rights, or that, if any new patents are issued,
    such patents will not be opposed, challenged, invalidated,
    infringed or dominated or provide us with significant
    proprietary protection or commercial advantage. Moreover, there
    can be no assurance that any of the existing licensed patents
    will provide us with proprietary protection or commercial
    advantage. Nor can we guarantee that these licensed patents will
    not be either infringed, invalidated or circumvented by others,
    or that the relevant agreements will not be terminated. Any
    termination of the licenses granted to us by CMCC could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 


    Because 1) patent applications filed in the United States
    on or before November 28, 2000 are maintained in secrecy
    until patents issue, 2) patent applications filed in the
    United States on or after November 29, 2000 are not
    published until approximately 18 months after their
    earliest claimed priority date, 3) United States patent
    applications that are not filed outside the United States may
    not publish at all until issued, and 4) publication of
    discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag
    behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we, or our
    licensors, were the first to make the inventions covered by each
    of the issued patents or pending patent applications or that we,
    or our licensors, were the first to file patent applications for
    such inventions. In the event a third party has also filed a
    patent for any of our inventions, we, or our licensors, may have
    to participate in interference proceedings before the PTO to
    determine priority of invention, which could result in the loss
    of a U.S. patent or loss of any opportunity to secure
    U.S. patent protection for the invention. Even if the
    eventual outcome is favorable to us, such interference
    proceedings could result in substantial cost to us.


 


    We may in the future have to prove that we are not infringing
    patents or we may be required to obtain licenses to such
    patents. However, we do not know whether such licenses will be
    available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.
    Prosecution of patent applications and litigation to establish
    the validity and scope of patents, to assert patent infringement
    claims against others and to defend against patent infringement
    claims by others can be expensive and time-consuming. There can
    be no assurance that, in the event that claims of any of our
    owned or licensed patents are challenged by one or more third
    parties, any court or patent authority ruling on such challenge
    will determine that such patent claims are valid and
    enforceable. An adverse outcome in such litigation could cause
    us to lose exclusivity relating to the subject matter delineated
    by such patent claims and may have a material adverse effect on
    our business. If a third party is found to have rights covering
    products or processes used by us, we could be forced to cease
    using the products or processes covered by the disputed rights,
    be subject to significant liabilities to such third party
    and/or be
    required to license technologies from such third party. Also,
    different countries have different procedures for obtaining
    patents, and patents issued by different countries provide
    different degrees of protection against the use of a patented
    invention by others. There can be no assurance, therefore, that
    the issuance to us in one country of a patent covering an
    invention will be followed by the issuance in other countries of
    patents covering the same invention or that any judicial
    interpretation of the validity, enforceability or scope of the
    claims in a patent issued in one country will be similar to the
    judicial interpretation given to a corresponding patent issued
    in another country. Competitors have chosen and in the future
    may choose to file oppositions to patent applications, which
    have been deemed allowable by foreign patent examiners.
    Furthermore, even if our owned or licensed patents are
    determined to be valid and enforceable, there can be no
    assurance that competitors will not be able to design around
    such patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative
    technology. Additionally, for these same reasons, we cannot be
    sure that patents of a broader scope than ours may be issued and
    thereby create freedom to





    
    25



Table of Contents





    operate issues. If this occurs we may need to reevaluate
    pursuing such technology, which is dominated by others’
    patent rights, or alternatively, seek a license to practice our
    own invention, whether or not patented.


 


    We also rely upon unpatented, proprietary and trade secret
    technology that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality
    agreements with our collaborative partners, employees,
    consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored
    researchers and other advisors. There can be no assurance that
    these agreements provide meaningful protection or that they will
    not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any
    such breach or that our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and
    technological advances will not otherwise become known to
    others. In addition, there can be no assurance that, despite
    precautions taken by us, others have not and will not obtain
    access to our proprietary technology or that such technology
    will not be found to be non-proprietary or not a trade secret.


 



    Our
    products may face competition from lower cost generic or
    follow-on products and providers of these products may be able
    to sell them at a substantially lower cost than
    us.


 


    Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to compete with our
    drugs, and present an important challenge to us. Even if our
    patent applications, or those we have licensed-in, are issued,
    innovative and generic drug manufacturers and other competitors
    may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of such
    patents in court, requiring us to engage in complex, lengthy and
    costly litigation. Alternatively, innovative and generic drug
    manufacturers and other competitors may be able to design around
    our owned or licensed patents and compete with us using the
    resulting alternative technology. If any of our issued or
    licensed patents are infringed or challenged, we may not be
    successful in enforcing or defending our or our licensor’s
    intellectual property rights and subsequently may not be able to
    develop or market the applicable product exclusively.


 


    Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our
    products, or upon the “at-risk” launch (despite
    pending patent infringement litigation against the generic
    product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one
    of our products, we can quickly lose a significant portion of
    our sales of that product, which can adversely affect our
    business. In addition, if generic versions of our
    competitors’ branded products lose their market
    exclusivity, our patented products may face increased
    competition which can adversely affect our business.


 


    The FDA approval process allows for the approval of an ANDA or
    505(b)(2) application for a generic version of our approved
    products upon the expiration, through passage of time or
    successful legal challenge, of relevant patent or non-patent
    exclusivity protection. Generic manufacturers pursuing ANDA
    approvals are not required to conduct costly and time-consuming
    clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of their
    products; rather, they are permitted to rely on the
    innovator’s data regarding safety and efficacy. Thus,
    generic manufacturers can sell their products at prices much
    lower than those charged by the innovative pharmaceutical or
    biotechnology companies who have incurred substantial expenses
    associated with the research and development of the drug
    product. Accordingly, while our products currently may retain
    certain regulatory and or patent exclusivity, our products are
    or will be subject to ANDA applications to the FDA in light of
    the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and
    Cosmetic Act. The ANDA procedure includes provisions allowing
    generic manufacturers to challenge the effectiveness of the
    innovator’s patent protection prior to the generic
    manufacturer actually commercializing their products —
    the so-called “Paragraph IV” certification
    procedure. In recent years, generic manufacturers have used
    Paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge the
    applicability of Orange Book-listed patents on a wide array of
    innovative pharmaceuticals, and we expect this trend to continue
    and to implicate drug products with even relatively modest
    revenues. During the exclusivity periods, the FDA is generally
    prevented from granting effective approval of an ANDA. Upon the
    expiration of the applicable exclusivities, through passage of
    time or successful legal challenge, the FDA may grant effective
    approval of an ANDA for a generic drug, or may accept reference
    to a previously protected NDA in a 505(b)(2) application.
    Further, upon such expiration event, the FDA may require a
    generic competitor to participate in some form of risk
    management system which could include our participation as well.
    Depending upon the scope of the applicable exclusivities, any
    such approval could be limited to certain formulations
    and/or
    indications/claims, i.e., those not covered by any outstanding
    exclusivities.


 


    If an ANDA filer or a generic manufacturer were to receive
    approval to sell a generic or follow-on version of one of our
    products, that product would become subject to increased
    competition and our revenues for that product would be adversely
    affected.




    
    26



Table of Contents





    We have received a Paragraph IV Certification Letter dated
    August 30, 2010, advising us that Natco Pharma Limited of
    Hyderabad, India, or Natco, submitted an ANDA to the FDA. See
    Part 1, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings —
    Revlimid®”

    of this report for further discussion.


 



    If we
    are not able to effectively compete our business will be
    adversely affected.


 


    The pharmaceutical and biotech industry in which we operate is
    highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant
    technological change. Our present and potential competitors
    include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as
    well as specialty pharmaceutical firms, including, but not
    limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Takeda and Johnson & Johnson, which compete with
    REVLIMID®

    and
    THALOMID®

    in the treatment of multiple myeloma and in clinical trials with
    our compounds;




 



     
        • 

    
    Eisai Co., Ltd., SuperGen, Inc. and Johnson & Johnson,
    which compete or may potentially compete with
    VIDAZA®,

    in addition Eisai Co., Ltd. potentially competes with
    ABRAXANE®,

    and in other oncology products in general;




 



     
        • 

    
    Amgen, which potentially competes with our TNF-α and kinase
    inhibitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    AstraZeneca plc, which potentially competes in clinical trials
    with our compounds and TNF-α inhibitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Biogen Idec Inc. and Genzyme Corporation, both of which are
    generally developing drugs that address the oncology and
    immunology markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    Bristol Myers Squibb Co., which potentially competes with
    ABRAXANE®,

    and in clinical trials with our compounds and TNF-α
    inhibitors, in addition to other oncology products in general;




 



     
        • 

    
    F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd., which potentially competes
    in clinical trials with our
    IMiDs®

    compounds and TNF-α inhibitors, in addition to other
    oncology products in general;




 



     
        • 

    
    Johnson & Johnson, which potentially competes with
    certain of our proprietary programs, including our oral
    anti-inflammatory programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Abbott Laboratories, which potentially competes with our oral
    anti-inflammatory programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Novartis, which potentially competes with our compounds and
    kinase programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Pfizer, which potentially competes in clinical trials with our
    kinase inhibitors; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Sanofi-Aventis, which competes with
    ABRAXANE®,

    in addition to other oncology products in general.





 


    Many of these companies have considerably greater financial,
    technical and marketing resources than we do. This enables them,
    among other things, to make greater research and development
    investments and spread their research and development costs, as
    well as their marketing and promotion costs, over a broader
    revenue base. Our competitors may also have more experience and
    expertise in obtaining marketing approvals from the FDA, and
    other regulatory authorities. We also experience competition
    from universities and other research institutions, and in some
    instances, we compete with others in acquiring technology from
    these sources. The pharmaceutical industry has undergone, and is
    expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant
    technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as
    technical advances in the field are made and become more widely
    known. The development of products, including generics, or
    processes by our competitors with significant advantages over
    those that we are seeking to develop could cause the
    marketability of our products to stagnate or decline.


 



    We may
    be required to modify our business practices, pay fines and
    significant expenses or experience losses due to litigation or
    governmental investigations.


 


    From time to time, we may be subject to litigation or
    governmental investigation on a variety of matters, including,
    without limitation, regulatory, intellectual property, product
    liability, antitrust, consumer, whistleblower, commercial,
    securities and employment litigation and claims and other legal
    proceedings that may arise from the conduct of our business as
    currently conducted or as conducted in the future.




    
    27



Table of Contents





    In particular, we are subject to significant product liability
    risks as a result of the testing of our products in human
    clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory
    approval.


 


    Pharmaceutical companies involved in Hatch-Waxman litigation are
    often subject to follow-on lawsuits and governmental
    investigations, which may be costly and could result in
    lower-priced generic products that are competitive with our
    products being introduced to the market.


 


    In the fourth quarter of 2009, we received a Civil Investigative
    Demand (CID) from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission,
    or the FTC. The FTC requested documents and other information
    relating to requests by generic companies to purchase our
    patented
    REVLIMID®

    and
    THALOMID®

    brand drugs in order to evaluate whether there is reason to
    believe that we have engaged in unfair methods of competition.
    In the first quarter of 2010, the State of Connecticut
    referenced the same issues as those referenced in the 2009 CID
    and issued a subpoena. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we
    received a second CID from the FTC relating to this matter. We
    continue to respond to requests for information.


 


    In the first quarter of 2011, we received a letter from the
    United States Attorney for the Central District of California
    informing us that we were under investigation relating to our
    promotion of the drugs
    THALOMID®

    and
    REVLIMID®

    regarding off-label marketing and improper payments to
    physicians. We are cooperating with the Unites States Attorney
    in connection with this investigation.


 


    On January 20, 2011, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that
    the jurisdiction of the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board,
    or the PMPRB, extends to sales of drugs to Canadian patients
    even if the locus of sale is within the United States. This
    means that our U.S. sales of
    THALOMID®

    brand drug to Canadian patients under the special access program
    are subject to PMPRB jurisdiction from and after
    January 12, 1995. In accordance with the ruling of the
    Supreme Court of Canada, we have provided to-date data regarding
    these special access program sales to the PMPRB. In light of the
    approval of
    THALOMID®

    brand drug for multiple myeloma by Health Canada on
    August 4, 2010, this drug is now sold through our Canadian
    entity and is no longer sold to Canadian patients in the United
    States. The PMPRB’s proposed pricing arrangement has not
    been determined. Depending on the calculation, we may be
    requested to return certain revenues associated with these sales
    and to pay fines. Should this occur, we would have to consider
    various legal options to address whether the pricing
    determination was reasonable.


 


    Litigation and governmental investigations are inherently
    unpredictable and may:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    result in rulings that are materially unfavorable to us,
    including claims for significant damages, fines or penalties,
    and administrative remedies, such as exclusion
    and/or
    debarment from government programs, or other rulings that
    prevent us from operating our business in a certain manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    cause us to change our business operations to avoid perceived
    risks associated with such litigation or investigations;




 



     
        • 

    
    have an adverse affect on our reputation and the demand for our
    products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    require the expenditure of significant time and resources, which
    may divert the attention of our management and interfere with
    the pursuit of our strategic objectives.





 


    While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our
    insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount
    of all insured claims and liabilities. It also is not possible
    to obtain insurance to protect against all potential risks and
    liabilities. If any litigation or governmental investigation
    were to have a material adverse result, there could be a
    material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or
    financial position. See also Legal Proceedings contained in
    Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    The
    development of new biopharmaceutical products involves a lengthy
    and complex process, and we may be unable to commercialize any
    of the products we are currently developing.


 


    Many of our drug candidates are in the early or mid-stages of
    research and development and will require the commitment of
    substantial financial resources, extensive research,
    development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing
    scale-up and
    regulatory approval prior to being ready for sale. This process
    involves a high degree of risk and takes many years. Our product
    development efforts with respect to a product candidate may fail
    for many





    
    28



Table of Contents





    reasons, including the failure of the product candidate in
    preclinical studies; adverse patient reactions to the product
    candidate or indications or other safety concerns; insufficient
    clinical trial data to support the effectiveness or superiority
    of the product candidate; our inability to manufacture
    sufficient quantities of the product candidate for development
    or commercialization activities in a timely and cost-efficient
    manner; our failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, the
    required regulatory approvals for the product candidate, the
    facilities or the process used to manufacture the product
    candidate; or changes in the regulatory environment, including
    pricing and reimbursement, that make development of a new
    product or of an existing product for a new indication no longer
    desirable. Moreover, our commercially available products may
    require additional studies with respect to approved indications
    as well as new indications pending approval.


 


    The stem cell products that we are developing through our CCT
    subsidiary may represent substantial departures from established
    treatment methods and will compete with a number of traditional
    products and therapies which are now, or may be in the future,
    manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and
    biopharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, public attitudes may
    be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe, and
    stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or
    the medical community.


 


    Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in conducting clinical
    studies, we can give no assurances that our studies will have a
    positive result or that we will receive regulatory approvals for
    our new products or new indications.


 



    Manufacturing
    and distribution risks including a disruption at certain of our
    manufacturing sites would significantly interrupt our production
    capabilities, which could result in significant product delays
    and adversely affect our results.


 


    We have our own manufacturing facilities for many of our
    products and we have contracted with third-party manufacturers
    and distributors to provide API, encapsulation, finishing
    services packaging and distribution services to meet our needs.
    These risks include the possibility that our or our
    suppliers’ manufacturing processes could be partially or
    completely disrupted by a fire, natural disaster, terrorist
    attack, governmental action or military action. In the case of a
    disruption, we may need to establish alternative manufacturing
    sources for these products. This would likely lead to
    substantial production delays as we build or locate replacement
    facilities and seek and obtain the necessary regulatory
    approvals. If this occurs, and our finished goods inventories
    are insufficient to meet demand, we may be unable to satisfy
    customer orders on a timely basis, if at all. Further, our
    business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us
    for any losses that may occur and we would have to bear the
    additional cost of any disruption. For these reasons, a
    significant disruptive event at certain of our manufacturing
    facilities or sites could materially and adversely affect our
    business and results of operations. In addition, if we fail to
    predict market demand for our products, we may be unable to
    sufficiently increase production capacity to satisfy demand or
    may incur costs associated with excess inventory that we
    manufacture.


 


    In all the countries where we sell our products, governmental
    regulations exist to define standards for manufacturing,
    packaging, labeling, distribution and storing. All of our
    suppliers of raw materials, contract manufacturers and
    distributors must comply with these regulations as applicable.
    In the United States, the FDA requires that all suppliers of
    pharmaceutical bulk material and all manufacturers of
    pharmaceuticals for sale in or from the United States achieve
    and maintain compliance with the FDA’s current Good
    Manufacturing Practice regulations and guidelines. Our failure
    to comply, or failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply
    with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being
    imposed on them or us, including fines, injunctions, civil
    penalties, disgorgement, suspension or withdrawal of approvals,
    license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating
    restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could
    significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products. In
    addition, before any product batch produced by our manufacturers
    can be shipped, it must conform to release specifications
    pre-approved by regulators for the content of the pharmaceutical
    product. If the operations of one or more of our manufacturers
    were to become unavailable for any reason, any required FDA
    review and approval of the operations of an alternative supplier
    could cause a delay in the manufacture of our products.


 


    If our outside manufacturers do not meet our requirements for
    quality, quantity or timeliness, or do not achieve and maintain
    compliance with all applicable regulations, our ability to
    continue supplying such products at a level that meets demand
    could be adversely affected.




    
    29



Table of Contents





    We have contracted with specialty distributors, to distribute
    REVLIMID®,

    THALOMID®,

    VIDAZA®,

    ABRAXANE®

    and
    ISTODAX®

    in the United States. If our distributors fail to perform and we
    cannot secure a replacement distributor within a reasonable
    period of time, we may experience adverse effects to our
    business and results of operations.


 


    We are continuing to establish marketing and distribution
    capabilities in international markets with respect to our
    products. At the same time, we are in the process of obtaining
    necessary governmental and regulatory approvals to sell our
    products in certain countries. If we have not successfully
    completed and implemented adequate marketing and distribution
    support services upon our receipt of such approvals, our ability
    to effectively launch our products in these countries would be
    severely restricted.


 



    The
    consolidation of drug wholesalers and other wholesaler actions
    could increase competitive and pricing pressures on
    pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us.


 


    We sell our pharmaceutical products in the United States
    primarily through wholesale distributors and contracted
    pharmacies. These wholesale customers comprise a significant
    part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in
    the United States. This distribution network is continuing to
    undergo significant consolidation. As a result, a smaller number
    of large wholesale distributors and pharmacy chains control a
    significant share of the market. We expect that consolidation of
    drug wholesalers and pharmacy chains will increase competitive
    and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including
    us. In addition, wholesalers may apply pricing pressure through
    fee-for-service
    arrangements, and their purchases may exceed customer demand,
    resulting in reduced wholesaler purchases in later quarters. We
    cannot assure you that we can manage these pressures or that
    wholesaler purchases will not decrease as a result of this
    potential excess buying.


 



    Risks
    from the improper conduct of employees, agents or contractors or
    collaborators could adversely affect our business or
    reputation.


 


    We cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies and
    procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed
    by our employees, agents, contractors or collaborators that
    would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in
    which we operate, including without limitation, employment,
    foreign corrupt practices, environmental, competition and
    privacy laws. Such improper actions could subject us to civil or
    criminal investigations, monetary and injunctive penalties and
    could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results
    of operations and reputation.


 



    The
    integration of Abraxis and other acquired businesses may present
    significant challenges to us.


 


    We may face significant challenges in effectively integrating
    entities and businesses that we acquire, such as Abraxis, and we
    may not realize the benefits anticipated from such acquisitions.
    Achieving the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Abraxis
    will depend in part upon whether we can integrate our businesses
    in an efficient and effective manner. Our integration of Abraxis
    involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    demands on management related to the increase in our size after
    the acquisition;




 



     
        • 

    
    the diversion of management’s attention from the management
    of daily operations to the integration of operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    higher integration costs than anticipated;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and
    practices, as well as in the assimilation of broad and
    geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in the integration of departments, systems,
    including accounting systems, technologies, books and records,
    and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards,
    controls, including internal control over financial reporting
    required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related
    procedures and policies.







    
    30



Table of Contents




 


    If we cannot successfully integrate Abraxis we may experience
    material negative consequences to our business, financial
    condition or results of operations. Successful integration of
    Abraxis will depend on our ability to manage these operations,
    to realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by
    offerings and expanded geographic market coverage and, to some
    degree, to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Because of
    difficulties in combining geographically distant operations, we
    may not be able to achieve the benefits that we hope to achieve
    as a result of the acquisition with Abraxis.


 



    Our
    inability to continue to attract and retain key leadership,
    managerial, commercial and scientific talent could adversely
    affect our business.


 


    The success of our business depends, in large part, on our
    continued ability to (i) attract and retain highly
    qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and commercial
    personnel, (ii) successfully integrate large numbers of new
    employees into our corporate culture and (iii) develop and
    maintain important relationships with leading research and
    medical institutions and key distributors. Competition for these
    types of personnel and relationships is intense.


 


    Among other benefits, we use share-based compensation to attract
    and retain personnel. Share-based compensation accounting rules
    require us to recognize all share-based compensation costs as
    expenses. These or other factors could reduce the number of
    shares and options management and our board of directors grants
    under our incentive plan. We cannot be sure that we will be able
    to attract or retain skilled personnel or maintain key
    relationships, or that the costs of retaining such personnel or
    maintaining such relationships will not materially increase.


 



    We
    could be subject to significant liability as a result of risks
    associated with using hazardous materials in our
    business.


 


    We use certain hazardous materials in our research, development,
    manufacturing and general business activities. While we believe
    we are currently in substantial compliance with the federal,
    state and local laws and regulations governing the use of these
    materials, we cannot be certain that accidental injury or
    contamination will not occur. If an accident or environmental
    discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by
    prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of
    properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup
    obligations, damages and fines. This could result in substantial
    liabilities that could exceed our insurance coverage and
    financial resources. Additionally, the cost of compliance with
    environmental and safety laws and regulations may increase in
    the future, requiring us to expend more financial resources
    either in compliance or in purchasing supplemental insurance
    coverage.


 



    Changes
    in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our
    results of operations.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and
    various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and
    international tax liabilities are dependent upon the
    distribution of income among these different jurisdictions.
    Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our
    effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not
    limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, the accounting
    for stock options and other share-based compensation, changes in
    tax laws and rates, future levels of research and development
    spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of
    earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate,
    the outcome of examinations by the U.S. Internal Revenue
    Service and other jurisdictions, the accuracy of our estimates
    for unrecognized tax benefits and realization of deferred tax
    assets, and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. The
    impact on our income tax provision resulting from the
    above-mentioned factors may be significant and could have an
    impact on our results of operations.


 



    Currency
    fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could increase our
    costs and may cause our profitability to decline.


 


    We collect and pay a substantial portion of our sales and
    expenditures in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
    Therefore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates
    affect our operating results.




    
    31



Table of Contents





    We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign
    currency risk, but not to engage in currency speculation. We use
    these forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted transactions
    and balance sheet exposures denominated in foreign currencies.
    We use derivative instruments, including those not designated as
    part of a hedging transaction, to manage our exposure to
    movements in foreign exchange rates. The use of these derivative
    instruments mitigates the exposure of these risks with the
    intent to reduce our risk or cost but may not fully offset any
    change in operating results that result from fluctuations in
    foreign currencies. Any significant foreign exchange rate
    fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    We may
    experience an adverse market reaction if we are unable to meet
    our financial reporting obligations.


 


    As we continue to expand at a rapid pace, the development of new
    and/or
    improved automated systems will remain an ongoing priority.
    During this expansion period, our internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements in
    our financial reporting. Such misstatements may result in
    litigation
    and/or
    negative publicity and possibly cause an adverse market reaction
    that may negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our
    common stock.


 



    The
    decline of global economic conditions could adversely affect our
    results of operations.


 


    Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on
    reimbursement from government health administration authorities,
    private health insurers, distribution partners and other
    organizations. As a result of the current global credit and
    financial market conditions, these organizations may be unable
    to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment.
    In addition, U.S. federal and state health authorities may
    reduce Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private
    insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in
    the availability or extent of reimbursement could negatively
    affect our product sales, revenue and cash flows.


 


    Due to tightened global credit, there may be a disruption or
    delay in the performance of our third-party contractors,
    suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third parties for several
    important aspects of our business, including portions of our
    product manufacturing, royalty revenue, clinical development of
    future collaboration products, conduct of clinical trials and
    raw materials. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their
    commitments to us, our business could be adversely affected.


 



    The
    price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and you
    may lose some or all of your investment in us.


 


    The market for our shares of common stock may be subject to
    disruptions that could cause volatility in its price. In
    general, current global economic conditions have caused
    substantial market volatility and instability. Any such
    disruptions or continuing volatility may adversely affect the
    value of our common stock. In addition to current global
    economic instability in general, the following key factors may
    have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    results of our clinical trials or adverse events associated with
    our marketed products;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in our commercial and operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements of technical or product developments by us or our
    competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in
    particular;




 



     
        • 

    
    stock market conditions generally;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in governmental regulations and laws, including, without
    limitation, changes in tax laws, health care legislation,
    environmental laws, competition laws, and patent laws;




 



     
        • 

    
    new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings;




 



     
        • 

    
    public announcements regarding medical advances in the treatment
    of the disease states that we are targeting;







    
    32



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    patent or proprietary rights developments;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in pricing and third-party reimbursement policies for
    our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    the outcome of litigation involving our products or processes
    related to production and formulation of those products or uses
    of those products;




 



     
        • 

    
    other litigation or governmental investigations;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition; and




 



     
        • 

    
    investor reaction to announcements regarding business or product
    acquisitions.





 


    In addition, our operations may be materially affected by
    conditions in the global markets and economic conditions
    throughout the world, including the current global economic and
    market instability. The global market and economic climate may
    continue to deteriorate because of many factors beyond our
    control, including continued economic instability and market
    volatility, sovereign debt issues, rising interest rates or
    inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty. In the event of a
    continued or future market downturn in general
    and/or the
    biotechnology sector in particular, the market price of our
    common stock may be adversely affected.


 



    In
    addition to the risks relating to our common stock, CVR holders
    are subject to additional risks.


 


    On October 15, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding
    common stock of Abraxis BioScience, Inc. in connection with our
    acquisition, contingent value rights or, CVRs, were issued under
    a CVR agreement entered into by and between us and American
    Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, the trustee.
    A copy of the CVR agreement was filed on
    Form 8-A
    with the SEC on October 15, 2010. Pursuant to the CVR
    agreement, each holder of a CVR is entitled to receive a pro
    rata portion, based on the number of CVRs then outstanding,
    of certain milestone and net sales payments, each of the
    following cash payments that we are obligated to pay. See
    Note 2, Acquisitions, of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    In addition to the risks relating to our common stock, CVR
    holders are subject to additional risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an active public market for the CVRs may not develop or the CVRs
    may trade at low volumes, both of which could have an adverse
    effect on the resale price, if any, of the CVRs;




 



     
        • 

    
    because a public market for the CVRs has a limited history, the
    market price and trading volume of the CVRs may be volatile;




 



     
        • 

    
    if the clinical approval milestones specified in the CVR
    agreement are not achieved for any reason within the time
    periods specified therein, and if net sales do not exceed the
    thresholds set forth in the CVR agreement for any reason within
    the time periods specified therein, no payment will be made
    under the CVRs and the CVRs will expire valueless;




 



     
        • 

    
    since the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the CVRs is
    unclear, any part of any CVR payment could be treated as
    ordinary income and required to be included in income prior to
    the receipt of the CVR payment;




 



     
        • 

    
    any payments in respect of the CVRs are subordinated to the
    right of payment of certain indebtedness of ours;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may under certain circumstances redeem the CVRs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    upon expiration of our obligations to use diligent efforts to
    achieve each of the CVR milestones and to sell
    ABRAXANE®

    or any of the other Abraxis pipeline products, we may
    discontinue such efforts, which would have an adverse effect on
    the value, if any, of the CVRs.





 



    Our
    business could be adversely affected if we are unable to service
    our obligations under our recently incurred
    indebtedness.


 


    On October 7, 2010, we issued a total of $1.25 billion
    principal amount of senior notes, consisting of the 2015 notes,
    the 2020 notes and the 2040 notes, collectively referred to as
    the notes. Our ability to pay interest on the notes, to repay
    the principal amount of the notes when due at maturity, to
    comply with the covenants of the notes or to





    
    33



Table of Contents





    repurchase the notes if a change of control occurs will depend
    upon, among other things, continued commercial success of our
    products and other factors that affect our future financial and
    operating performance, including, without limitation, prevailing
    economic conditions and financial, business, and regulatory
    factors, many of which are beyond our control.


 


    If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service the
    debt service requirements under the notes, we may be forced to
    take actions such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    restructuring or refinancing our debt, including the notes;




 



     
        • 

    
    seeking additional debt or equity capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions,
    investments or capital expenditures; or




 



     
        • 

    
    selling assets.





 


    Such measures might not be successful and might not enable us to
    service our obligations under the notes. In addition, any such
    financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available
    on economically favorable terms.


 



    A
    breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could
    subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our
    business.


 


    We rely upon our information technology systems and
    infrastructure for our business. The size and complexity of our
    computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown,
    malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy
    breaches by employees and others who access our systems may pose
    a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized
    persons or to the public. While we believe that we have taken
    appropriate security measures to protect our data and
    information technology systems, there can be no assurance that
    our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems
    that could adversely affect our business.


 



    We
    have certain charter and by-law provisions that may deter a
    third-party from acquiring us and may impede the
    stockholders’ ability to remove and replace our management
    or board of directors.


 


    Our board of directors has the authority to issue, at any time,
    without further stockholder approval, up to
    5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the
    price, rights, privileges and preferences of those shares. An
    issuance of preferred stock could discourage a third-party from
    acquiring a majority of our outstanding voting stock.
    Additionally, our board of directors has adopted certain
    amendments to our by-laws intended to strengthen the
    board’s position in the event of a hostile takeover
    attempt. These provisions could impede the stockholders’
    ability to remove and replace our management
    and/or board
    of directors. Furthermore, we are subject to the provisions of
    Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an
    anti-takeover law, which may also dissuade a potential acquirer
    of our common stock.


 



    AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION


 


    Our Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q
    and Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K
    are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC, and all
    such reports and amendments to such reports filed have been and
    will be made available, free of charge, through our website
    (http://www.celgene.com)
    as soon as reasonably practicable after such filing. Such
    reports will remain available on our website for at least
    12 months. The contents of our website are not incorporated
    by reference into this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the
    SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549.


 


    The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
    Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains an Internet site
    (http://www.sec.gov)
    that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
    other information regarding issuers that file electronically
    with the SEC.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B