ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered
carefully. Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our
business, prospects, financial condition, operating results or credit ratings, which could cause
the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, could also negatively affect our
business and operations.


We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results.



We have historically experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our
quarterly operating results. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are
outside our control, and may result in volatility of our stock price. Future operating results
will depend on many factors, including:





     
    •
     
    demand for our products;








     
    •
     
    pricing decisions, and those of our competitors, including decisions to increase or
decrease prices;








     
    •
     
    regulatory approvals for our products;








     
    •
     
    timing and levels of spending for research and development, sales and marketing;








     
    •
     
    timing and levels of reimbursement from third-party payors for our products;








     
    •
     
    timing and market acceptance of new product introductions by us and/or competitors;








     
    •
     
    development or expansion of business infrastructure in new clinical and geographic
markets;








     
    •
     
    acquisition of new products and companies;








     
    •
     
    tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate;








     
    •
     
    timing and recognition of certain research and development milestones and license fees;








     
    •
     
    ability to control our costs;








     
    •
     
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and








     
    •
     
    economic and market instability.





During the next several years, we will be very dependent on the continued commercial success of our
primary products REVLIMID®, THALOMID® and VIDAZA®.</I
>


During the next several years, the growth of our business will be largely dependent on the
commercial success of REVLIMID® and our other products. REVLIMID® was
approved by the FDA, the EC, the Swissmedic, the TGA, and in October 2008 by Health Canada for
treatment in combination with dexamethasone for multiple myeloma patients who have received at
least one prior therapy. In addition, REVLIMID® was approved by the FDA and the
Canadian Therapeutic Products Directorate for treatment of patients with transfusion-dependent
anemia due to low- or intermediate-1-risk MDS, associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic
abnormality with or without additional cytogenetic abnormalities. We cannot
predict whether REVLIMID® will continue to gain the acceptance of regulators,
physicians, patients and other key opinion leaders as a relatively safe and effective drug that has
certain advantages as compared to existing or future therapies. We are also seeking to introduce
REVLIMID® in additional international markets as well as obtaining approvals for
additional indications both in the United States and internationally. A delay in gaining the
requisite regulatory approvals could negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our common
stock.

 

16




Table of Contents



THALOMID® was approved by the FDA for treatment in combination with dexamethasone for
patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and is also approved for the treatment and
suppression of cutaneous manifestations of ENL, an inflammatory complication of leprosy. In April
2008, the TGA approved a supplemental filing granting THALOMID® marketing approval for
use in combination with melphalan and prednisone for patients with untreated multiple myeloma or
ineligible for high dose chemotherapy and also granted THALOMID® marketing approval in
combination with dexamethasone for induction therapy prior to high dose chemotherapy with
autologous stem cell rescue, for the treatment of patients with untreated multiple myeloma. In
addition, in April 2008, THALOMID® was granted full marketing authorization by the EC
for use in combination with melphalan and prednisone as a treatment for patients with newly
diagnosed multiple myeloma. If unexpected adverse experiences are reported in connection with the
use of THALOMID® by patients, physician and patient comfort with the product could be
undermined, the commercial success of THALOMID® could be affected and the acceptance of
our other products, including REVLIMID®, may be adversely impacted.


VIDAZA® has been shown to reverse the effects of DNA hypermethylation and promote
subsequent gene re-expression. VIDAZA® was licensed from Pharmacia & Upjohn, now part
of Pfizer, and was approved by the FDA for the treatment of all subtypes of MDS.
Additionally, VIDAZA® was granted orphan drug designation by the FDA for the treatment
of AML. In December 2008, VIDAZA® was granted full marketing
authorization by the EC for the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for haematopoietic
stem cell transplantation with Intermediate-2 and high-risk MDS according to the IPSS or CMML with
10-29 percent marrow blasts without myeloproliferative disorder, or AML with 20-30 percent blasts
and multi-lineage dysplasia, according to WHO classification.


Our revenues and profits would be negatively impacted if adverse experiences were reported in
connection with any of these three products or generic versions were to be approved and launched.
See “We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and our products may be subject to
generic competition” for further discussion related to possible generic competition for
THALOMID®.


Sales of our products are dependent on third-party reimbursement.



Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products will
be paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar health care management
organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health
coverage insurers and other third-party payors. These health care management organizations and
third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and
services. Additionally, the containment of health care costs has become a priority of federal and
state governments, and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. The U.S. government,
state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing
cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements
for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures in
new jurisdictions or programs, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with
existing controls and measures, could further limit our net revenue and results. If these
organizations and third-party payors do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to
other available therapies, they may not reimburse providers or consumers of our products or, if
they do, the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a
profitable basis.

 

17




Table of Contents



If we are unsuccessful in developing and commercializing our products, our business, financial
condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected which could
have a negative impact on the value of our securities.


Many of our drug candidates are in the early or mid-stages of research and development and will
require the commitment of substantial financial resources, extensive research, development,
preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval prior to being
ready for sale. Moreover, our commercially available products may require additional studies with
respect to approved indications as well as new indications pending approval. If it becomes too
expensive to sustain our present commitment of resources on a long-term basis, we will be unable to
continue certain necessary research and development activities. Furthermore, we cannot be certain
that our clinical testing will render satisfactory results, or that we will receive required
regulatory approvals for our new products or new indications. If any of our products, even if
developed and approved, cannot be successfully commercialized, our business, financial condition,
results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected which could have a
negative impact on the value of our common stock.


If our products are not accepted by the market, demand for our products will deteriorate or not
materialize at all.


It is necessary that REVLIMID®, THALOMID®, VIDAZA®,
FOCALIN® and FOCALIN XR®, and the RITALIN® family of drugs achieve
and maintain market acceptance. A number of factors may adversely impact the degree of market
acceptance of our products, including the products’ efficacy, safety and advantages, if any, over
competing products, as well as the reimbursement policies of third-party payors, such as government
and private insurance plans. In particular, thalidomide, when used by pregnant women, has resulted
in serious birth defects, and the negative history associated with thalidomide and birth defects
may decrease the market acceptance of THALOMID®. In addition, the stem cell products
that we are developing through our Celgene Cellular Therapeutics subsidiary may represent
substantial departures from established treatment methods and will compete with a number of
traditional products and therapies which are now, or may be in the future, manufactured and
marketed by major pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, public attitudes
may be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe, and stem cell therapy may not gain
the acceptance of the public or the medical community. If our products are not accepted by the
market, demand for our products will deteriorate or not materialize at all.


The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive government regulation which presents numerous
risks to us.


The discovery, preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, restricted distribution
systems (such as our S.T.E.P.S.® and RevAssist® programs), marketing and
labeling of pharmaceuticals and biologics are all subject to extensive regulation, including,
without limitation, the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the U.S. Public Health Service
Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other federal and state statutes, including
anti-kickback, antitrust and false claims laws, as well as similar laws in foreign jurisdictions.


If we or our contractors and collaborators are delayed in receiving, or are unable to obtain at
all, necessary governmental approvals, we will be unable to effectively market our products.


The testing, marketing and manufacturing of our products require regulatory approval, including
approval from the FDA and, in some cases, from the Environmental
Protection Agency, or EPA, or governmental authorities outside of the
United States that perform roles similar to those of the FDA and EPA, including the EC, the
Swissmedic, the TGA and Health Canada. Certain of our pharmaceutical products, such as
FOCALIN®, fall under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 that requires authorization
by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA, of the U.S. Department of Justice in order to handle
and distribute these products.

 

18




Table of Contents



The regulatory approval process presents several risks to us:





     
    •
     
    In general, preclinical tests and clinical trials can take many years, and require the
expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can
be susceptible to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory
approval;








     
    •
     
    Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process based
upon the failure of the clinical or other data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the
failure of the product to meet, a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy and
quality or, in the case of a product seeking an orphan drug indication, because another
designee received approval first or receives approval of other labeled indications;








     
    •
     
    Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency
policy, or the adoption of new regulations or legislation;








     
    •
     
    The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may significantly limit the
indicated uses for which a product may be marketed and reimbursed and may impose
significant limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions and contra-indications that
could materially affect the sales and profitability of the drug;








     
    •
     
    Pricing and reimbursement controls and policies may become more stringent both inside
and outside the United States which could affect the sales and profitability of our drugs;








     
    •
     
    Approved products, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing
review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with these products or the failure to
adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their
manufacture, sale or use or in their withdrawal from the market;








     
    •
     
    Regulatory authorities and agencies of the United States or foreign governments may
promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our existing and proposed
products;








     
    •
     
    Guidelines and recommendations published by various non-governmental organizations can
reduce the use of our products;








     
    •
     
    Once a product receives marketing approval, we may not market that product for broader
or different applications, and the FDA may not grant us approval with respect to separate
product applications that represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, the
FDA may withdraw or modify existing approvals in a significant manner or promulgate
additional regulations restricting the sale of our present or proposed products. The FDA
may also request that we perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our
existing or proposed products if we or others identify side effects after our products are
on the market;








     
    •
     
    Products, such as REVLIMID®, that are subject to accelerated approval can be
subject to an expedited withdrawal if the post-marketing study commitments are not
completed with due diligence, the post-marketing restrictions are not adhered to or are
shown to be inadequate to assure the safe use of the drug, or evidence demonstrates that
the drug is not shown to be safe and effective under its conditions of use. Additionally,
promotional materials for such products are subject to enhanced surveillance, including
pre-approval review of all promotional materials used within 120 days following marketing
approval and a requirement for the submissions 30 days prior to initial dissemination of
all promotional materials disseminated after 120 days following marketing approval; and




 

19




Table of Contents












     
    •
     
    Our labeling and promotional activities relating to our products as well as our post
marketing activities are regulated by the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, The United
States Department of Justice, the DEA, state regulatory agencies and foreign regulatory
agencies and are subject to associated risks. In addition, individual states, acting
through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the
marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws.
If we fail to comply with regulations regarding the promotion and sale of our products,
such as prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which
marketing clearance has not been obtained, such agencies could bring an enforcement action
against us that could inhibit our marketing capabilities as well as result in significant
penalties.





We recently sent a letter to doctors warning that a study of the drug Innohep to treat dangerous
blood clots suggests that the drug may increase the risk of death in elderly patients. The FDA has
posted the letter on its website, which recommends that doctors consider alternatives to Innohep in
patients with deep vein thrombosis, life-threatening blood clots in major veins such as in the
legs. As a result, the FDA has requested that we revise the package insert to reference the
suggested study results relating to Innohep. Innohep was being marketed by Pharmion at the time we
acquired the company on March 7, 2008. Since our acquisition of Pharmion, all Innohep sales are
included in other product sales since we consider Innohep to be non-core.


The FDA approval process would allow for the approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2)
application for a generic version of our approved products upon the expiration, through passage of
time or successful legal challenge, of relevant patent or non-patent exclusivity protection. ANDAs
and 505(b)(2) applications are generally less burdensome than full NDAs in that, in lieu of
clinical data, these applications rely in whole, or in part, upon the safety and efficacy findings
of the referenced approved product in conjunction with bridging data, typically bioequivalence
data.


The FDA’s Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research currently regulates under 21 CFR Parts 1270
and 1271 human tissue or cells intended for transplantation, implantation, infusion or transfer to
a human recipient. Part 1271 requires tissue establishments to screen and test donors, to prepare
and follow written procedures for the prevention of the spread of communicable disease and to
register the establishment with FDA. It also provides for inspection by the FDA of tissue
establishments.


Currently, we are required to be, and are, licensed to operate in New York, New Jersey, Maryland
and California, four of the states in which we currently collect placentas and umbilical cord blood
for our allogeneic and private stem cell banking businesses. If other states adopt similar
licensing requirements, we would need to obtain such licenses to continue operating. If we are
delayed in receiving, or are unable to obtain at all, necessary licenses, we will be unable to
provide services in those states and this would impact negatively on our revenues.


We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and our products may be subject to generic
competition.


Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents, protect trade secrets,
obtain licenses to technology owned by third parties and to conduct our business without infringing
upon the proprietary rights of others. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and
biopharmaceutical firms, including ours, can be uncertain and involve complex legal and factual
questions including those related to our restricted distribution systems (such as our
S.T.E.P.S.® and RevAssist® programs).

 

20




Table of Contents



Under the current U.S. patent laws, patent applications filed in the United States on or before
November 28, 2000 are maintained in secrecy until patents issue. Patent applications filed in the
U.S. on or after November 29, 2000 are not published until approximately 18 months after their
earliest claimed priority date, and publication of discoveries in the scientific and patent
literature often lag behind actual discoveries. Thus, we may discover sometime in the future that
we, or the third parties from whom we
have licensed patents or patent applications, were not the first to make and/or file the inventions
covered by the patents and patent applications in which we have or seek rights. In the event that a
third party has also filed a patent application for any of the inventions claimed in our patents or
patent applications, or those we have licensed-in, we could become involved in an interference
proceeding declared by the PTO, to determine priority of invention or an opposition proceeding in
other places such as Europe. Such an interference or opposition could result in the loss of an
issued U.S. or foreign patent, respectively, or loss of any opportunity to secure U.S. patent
protection for that invention. Even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us, such proceedings
could result in substantial cost and delay to us and limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.


In addition, the coverage sought in a patent application may not be obtained or may be
significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, if our pending applications, or
pending applications that we have licensed-in from third parties, do not result in the issuance of
patents or if any patents that are issued do not provide significant proprietary protection or
commercial advantage, our ability to sustain the necessary level of intellectual property rights
upon which our success depends may be restricted.


Moreover, different countries have different procedures for obtaining patents, and patents issued
in different countries provide different degrees of protection against the use of a patented
invention by others. Therefore, if the issuance to us or our licensors, in a given country, of a
patent covering an invention is not followed by the issuance in other countries of patents covering
the same invention, or if any judicial interpretation of the validity, enforceability or scope of
the claims in a patent issued in one country is not similar to the interpretation given to the
corresponding patent issued in another country, our ability to protect our intellectual property in
other countries may be limited.


Furthermore, even if our patent applications, or those we have licensed-in, are issued, our
competitors may still challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of such patents in court,
requiring us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation. Alternatively, our competitors
may be able to design around such patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative
technology. If any of our issued or licensed patents are infringed, we may not be successful in
enforcing our or our licensor’s intellectual property rights or defending the validity or
enforceability of our issued patents and subsequently not be able to develop or market applicable
product exclusively.


We rely upon unpatented proprietary and trade secret technology that we try to protect, in part, by
confidentiality agreements with our collaborative partners, employees, consultants, outside
scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors. If these agreements are
breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Despite precautions taken by us,
others may obtain access to or independently develop our proprietary technology or such technology
may be found to be non-proprietary or not a trade secret.


Our right to practice the inventions claimed in certain patents that relate to THALOMID®
arises under licenses granted to us by others, including The Rockefeller University, EntreMed and
CMCC. In addition to these patents, which relate to thalidomide, we have also licensed from CMCC
certain patents relating to thalidomide analogs. In December 2002, we entered into an exclusive
license agreement with CMCC and EntreMed Inc. pursuant to which CMCC exclusively licensed to us
certain patents and patent applications that relate to analogs, metabolites, precursors and
hydrolysis products of thalidomide, and all stereoisomers thereof. Our license under the December
2002 agreement is worldwide and royalty-bearing, and we have complete control over the prosecution
of the licensed thalidomide analog patent rights. Under this December 2002 agreement, we are
obligated to comply with certain milestones for a REVLIMID® approval and royalties with
respect to sales of REVLIMID®. The December 2002 agreement also grants us an option for
a certain time period to inventions in the field of thalidomide analogs that may be developed at
CMCC in the laboratory of Dr. Robert D’Amato, pursuant to the terms and conditions of a separate
Sponsored Research Agreement negotiated between CMCC and us.

 

21




Table of Contents



Further, while we believe these confidentiality agreements and license agreements to be valid and
enforceable, our rights under these agreements may not continue or disputes concerning these
agreements may arise. If any of the foregoing should occur, we may be unable to rely upon our
unpatented proprietary and trade secret technology, or we may be unable to use the third-party
proprietary technology we have licensed-in, either of which may prevent or hamper us from
successfully pursuing our business.


It is also possible that third-party patent applications and patents could issue with claims that
broadly cover certain aspects of our business or of the subject matter claimed in the patents or
patent applications owned or optioned by us or licensed to us, which may limit our ability to
conduct our business or to practice under our patents, and may impede our efforts to obtain
meaningful patent protection of our own. If patents are issued to third parties that contain
competitive or conflicting claims, we may be legally prohibited from pursuing research, development
or commercialization of potential products or be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to
develop or obtain alternative technology. We may be legally prohibited from using patented
technology, may not be able to obtain any license to the patents and technologies of third parties
on acceptable terms, if at all, or may not be able to obtain or develop alternative technologies.
Consequently, if we cannot successfully defend against any patent infringement suit that may be
brought against us by a third-party, we may lose the ability to continue to conduct our business as
we presently do, or to practice certain subject matter delineated by patent claims that we have
exclusive rights to, whether by ownership or by license, and that may have a material adverse
effect on our business.


Under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, products covered by
approved NDAs or supplemental NDAs may be protected by periods of patent and/or non-patent
exclusivity. During the exclusivity periods, the FDA is generally prevented from granting
effective approval of an ANDA. Upon the expiration of the applicable
exclusivities, through passage of time or successful legal challenge, the FDA may grant effective
approval of an ANDA for a generic drug, or may accept reference to a previously protected NDA in a
505(b)(2) application. Depending upon the scope of the applicable exclusivities, any such approval
could be limited to certain formulations and/or indications/claims, i.e., those not covered by any
outstanding exclusivities.


We rely upon trademarks and service marks to protect our rights to the intellectual property used
in our business.


We have grown rapidly, and if we fail to adequately manage that growth our business could be
adversely impacted.


We have an aggressive growth plan that has included substantial and increasing investments in
research and development, sales and marketing, and facilities. We plan to continue to grow and our
plan of growth contains various risks, some of which we cannot control. For example:





     
    •
     
    we will need to generate higher revenues to cover a higher level of operating expenses
(including clinical trial costs, expenses associated with the regulatory approval process
and commercialization of our products), and our ability to do so may depend on factors that
we do not control;








     
    •
     
    we will need to manage complexities associated with a larger and faster growing
multinational organization; and








     
    •
     
    we will need to accurately anticipate demand for the products we manufacture and
maintain adequate manufacturing, marketing and distribution capacity, and our ability to do
so may depend on factors that we do not control.




 

22




Table of Contents



If the third parties upon whom we rely fail to produce on a timely basis the API, encapsulation,
finishing and packaging services in the volumes that we require or fail to meet quality standards
and maintain necessary licensure from regulatory authorities, we may be unable to meet demand for
our products, potentially resulting in lost revenues.


We have contracted with third party manufacturers to provide API, encapsulation, finishing services
and packaging to meet our needs. We intend to continue to utilize third parties as needed to
produce certain of our products on a commercial scale.


The API for THALOMID® is manufactured in our Zofingen, Switzerland, manufacturing
facility. We have a contract manufacturing agreement with Aptuit Inc. UK as a secondary API
supplier. With regard to drug product manufacturing, we have contract manufacturing relationships
with Penn Pharmaceuticals Services Limited and Institute of Drug Technology Australia Limited, for
the formulation and encapsulation of the finished dosage form of THALOMID® capsules.
Sharp Corporation performs the packaging of the final product.


The API for REVLIMID® is manufactured in our Zofingen, Switzerland, manufacturing
facility. We have a contract manufacturing agreement with Aptuit Inc. UK as a secondary API
supplier. With regard to drug product manufacturing, we perform the formulation and encapsulation
of the finished dosage form of REVLIMID® capsules in our Boudry, Switzerland
manufacturing facility. We have a contract manufacturing relationship with Penn Pharmaceuticals
Services Limited as a secondary supplier. Our Boudry, Switzerland facility performs the packaging
of final product. In addition, Sharp Corporation and Cimex AG perform packaging of the final
product.


The API for VIDAZA® is supplied by Ash Stevens, Inc. We have a contract
manufacturing agreement with Baxter GmBH and Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc. for the packaging,
formulation and filling the product into vials.


The API for FOCALIN® is currently obtained from two suppliers, Johnson Matthey Inc. and
Siegfried USA, Inc., and we rely on a single manufacturer, Mikart, Inc., for the tableting and
packaging of FOCALIN® finished product. The API for FOCALIN XR® is supplied
by both Siegfried and Johnson Matthey Inc. on behalf of Novartis for the manufacture of FOCALIN
XR®.


In all the countries where we sell our products, governmental regulations exist to define standards
for manufacturing, packaging, labeling and storing. All of our suppliers of raw materials and
contract manufacturers must comply with these regulations. Failure to do so could result in supply
interruptions. In the United States, the FDA requires that all suppliers of pharmaceutical bulk
material and all manufacturers of pharmaceuticals for sale in or from the United States achieve and
maintain compliance with the FDA’s cGMP regulations and guidelines. Failure of our third-party
manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on them
or us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, disgorgement, suspension or withdrawal of
approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal
prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products. In
addition, before any product batch produced by our manufacturers can be shipped, it must conform to
release specifications pre-approved by regulators for the content of the pharmaceutical product.
If the operations of one or more of our manufacturers were to become unavailable for any reason,
any required FDA review and approval of the operations of an alternative supplier could cause a
delay in the manufacture of our products. If our outside manufacturers do not meet our
requirements for quality, quantity or timeliness, or do not achieve and maintain compliance with
all applicable regulations, demand for our products or our ability to continue supplying such
products could substantially decline.

 

23




Table of Contents



We utilize third parties for the distribution of our products in the U.S.



We have contracted with Ivers Lee Corporation, d/b/a Sharp, a specialty distributor, to distribute
THALOMID® and REVLIMID® in the United States. If Sharp does not perform its
obligations, our ability to distribute THALOMID® and REVLIMID® in the United
States may be impacted for a limited period of time.


We have contracted with Cardinal Health SPS, a specialty distributor, to distribute
VIDAZA® in the United States. If Cardinal Health SPS does not perform its obligations,
our ability to distribute VIDAZA® in the United States may be impacted for a limited
period of time.


If our distributors fail to perform and we cannot secure a replacement distributor within a
reasonable period of time, we may experience adverse effects to our business and results of
operations.


We are continuing to establish foreign marketing and distribution capabilities.



We are continuing to establish marketing and distribution capabilities in international markets
with respect to our products. At the same time, we are in the process of obtaining necessary
governmental and regulatory approvals to sell our products in certain countries. If we have not
successfully completed and implemented adequate marketing and distribution support services upon
our receipt of such approvals, our ability to effectively launch our products in these countries
would be severely restricted.


Certain risks related to the commercial success of VIDAZA® may present significant
challenges to us.


Risks related to the commercial success and future growth of VIDAZA® are
summarized as follows:





     
    •
     
    our ability to achieve additional marketing authorizations for
VIDAZA®;








     
    •
     
    continued acceptance by regulators, physicians, patients and other key decision-makers as a
safe, superior therapeutic as compared to currently existing or future treatments for MDS; and








     
    •
     
    our ability to successfully compete with other approved MDS therapies.





The integration of entities we acquire may present significant challenges to us.


Achieving the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of entities will depend in part upon
whether we can integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. Our
integration of these entities involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to:





     
    •
     
    demands on management related to the increase in our size after the acquisition;








     
    •
     
    the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the
integration of operations;








     
    •
     
    higher integration costs than anticipated;








     
    •
     
    failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings;








     
    •
     
    difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees;




 

24




Table of Contents












     
    •
     
    difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the
assimilation of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and








     
    •
     
    difficulties in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems,
technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards,
controls (including internal control over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) and related procedures and policies.





If we cannot successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may experience material negative
consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations.


We may be unable to retain skilled personnel and maintain key relationships.



The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to (i) attract and
retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel,
(ii) successfully integrate large numbers of new employees into our corporate culture and (iii)
develop and maintain important relationships with leading research and medical institutions and key
distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense.


Among other benefits, we use stock options to attract and retain personnel. Stock option
accounting rules require us to recognize all stock-based compensation costs as expenses. These or
other factors could reduce the number of shares management and our board of directors grants under
our stock option plans. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract or retain skilled
personnel or maintain key relationships, including key employees of Pharmion, or that the costs of
retaining such personnel or maintaining such relationships will not materially increase.


The hazardous materials we use in our research, development and other business operations could
result in significant liabilities, which could exceed our insurance coverage and financial
resources.


We use certain hazardous materials in our research, development and general business activities.
While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with the federal, state and local laws
and regulations governing the use of these materials, we cannot be certain that accidental injury
or contamination will not occur. Any such accident or contamination could result in substantial
liabilities that could exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources. Additionally, the
cost of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations may increase in the future,
requiring us to expend more financial resources either in compliance or in purchasing supplemental
insurance coverage.


Litigation on a variety of matters may subject us to significant legal expenses and liability.



From time to time, we may be subject to litigation on a variety of matters, including intellectual property, licensing arrangements with other persons and product liability.
Litigation requires the expenditure of significant time and resources, and is inherently
unpredictable. If any litigation were to have an unanticipated adverse result, there could be a
material impact on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. See also Legal
Proceedings contained in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

25




Table of Contents



The pharmaceutical and biotech industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant
technological change.


The
pharmaceutical and biotech industry in which we operate is highly competitive and subject to rapid and
significant technological change. Our present and potential competitors include major
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms, including
but not limited to:





     
    •
     
    Amgen, which potentially competes with our TNF-a and kinase inhibitors;








     
    •
     
    AstraZeneca plc, which potentially competes in clinical trials with our
IMiDs® compounds and TNF-a inhibitors;








     
    •
     
    Biogen Idec Inc. and Genzyme Corporation, both of which are generally developing drugs
that address the oncology and immunology markets;








     
    •
     
    Bristol Myers Squibb Co., which potentially competes in clinical trials with our
IMiDs® compounds and TNF-a inhibitors;








     
    •
     
    Eisai Co., Ltd., SuperGen, Inc. and Johnson & Johnson compete or may potentially compete
with VIDAZA®;








     
    •
     
    Genentech, Inc., which potentially competes in clinical trials with our
IMiDs® compounds and TNF-a inhibitors;








     
    •
     
    Johnson & Johnson, which potentially competes with certain of our proprietary programs
including our oral anti-inflammatory programs;








     
    •
     
    Novartis, which potentially competes with our IMiDs® compounds and kinase
programs;








     
    •
     
    Pfizer, which potentially competes in clinical trials with our kinase inhibitors;
and








     
    •
     
    Takeda and Johnson & Johnson, which compete with REVLIMID® and THALOMID®
in the treatment of multiple myeloma and in clinical trials with our
IMiDs® compounds.





Many of these companies have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than
we do. We also experience competition from universities and other research institutions, and in
some instances, we compete with others in acquiring technology from these sources. The
pharmaceutical industry has undergone, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and
significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technical advances in
the field are made and become more widely known. The development of products, including generics,
or processes by our competitors with significant advantages over those that we are seeking to
develop could cause the marketability of our products to stagnate or decline.


Changes in our effective income tax rate could impact our earnings.



Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate. These
factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, the accounting for
stock options and other share-based payments, changes in tax laws and rates, future levels of
research and development spending, changes in accounting standards, future levels of capital
expenditures, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate,
the outcome of examinations by the IRS and other jurisdictions, the accuracy of our estimates for
unrecognized tax benefits and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. The impact on our
income tax provision resulting from the above-mentioned factors may be significant and could have
an impact on our results of operations.

 

26




Table of Contents



Our operations may be impacted by currency fluctuations that may cause our earnings to fluctuate.



We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency risk, but not to engage in
currency speculation. We use these forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted transactions and
balance sheet exposures denominated in foreign currencies. We use derivative instruments,
including those not designated as part of a hedging transaction, to manage our exposure to movements in
foreign exchange rates but not eliminate our anticipated exposure to currency fluctuations. The
use of these derivative instruments modifies the exposure of these risks with the intent to reduce
our risk or cost. Any significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations within a short period of time
could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.


We may experience an adverse market reaction if we are unable to meet our financial reporting
obligations.


As we continue to expand at a rapid pace, the development of new and/or improved automated systems
will remain an ongoing priority. During this expansion period, our internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements in our financial reporting. Such misstatements
may result in litigation and/or negative publicity and possibly cause an adverse market reaction
that may negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our common stock.


The current global credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting
our business.


Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on reimbursement from government health
administration authorities, private health insurers, distribution partners and other organizations.
As a result of the current global credit and financial market conditions, these organizations may
be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. In addition, federal
and state health authorities may reduce Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private insurers
may increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement
could negatively affect our product sales and revenue.


Due to the recent tightening of global credit, there may be a disruption or delay in the
performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third parties
for several important aspects of our business, including portions of our product manufacturing,
royalty revenue, clinical development of future collaboration products, conduct of clinical trials
and raw materials. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our
business would be adversely affected.


The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for you to
sell the common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive.


The market for our shares of common stock may be subject to disruptions that could cause volatility
in their prices. In general, the current global economic crisis has caused substantial market
volatility and instability. Any such disruptions or continuing volatility may adversely affect the
value of our common stock. The intra-day price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of
$77.39 per share to a low of $45.44 per share in 2008. On December 31, 2008, our common stock
closed at a price of $55.28 per share. We expect that the market price of our common stock will
continue to fluctuate. In addition to current global economic instability in general, the
following key factors may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock:





     
    •
     
    results of our clinical trials or adverse events associated with our marketed products;








     
    •
     
    fluctuations in our commercial and operating results;








     
    •
     
    announcements of technical or product developments by us or our competitors;








     
    •
     
    market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular;








     
    •
     
    stock market conditions generally;




 

27




Table of Contents












     
    •
     
    governmental regulation;








     
    •
     
    new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings;








     
    •
     
    health care legislation;








     
    •
     
    public announcements regarding medical advances in the treatment of the disease states
that we are targeting;








     
    •
     
    patent or proprietary rights developments;








     
    •
     
    changes in pricing and third-party reimbursement policies for our products;








     
    •
     
    the outcome of litigation involving our products or processes related to production and
formulation of those products or uses of those products;








     
    •
     
    competition; and








     
    •
     
    investor reaction to announcements regarding business or product acquisitions.





The number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale could also adversely affect the
market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, there were outstanding stock options
and warrants for 34,184,262 shares of common stock, of which 19,015,262 were currently vested and
exercisable at an exercise price between $0.04 and $73.92, per share, with a weighted average
exercise price of $25.15 per share.


In addition, our operations may be materially affected by conditions in the global markets and
economic conditions throughout the world, including the current global economic and market
instability. The global market and economic climate may continue to deteriorate because of many
factors beyond our control, including continued economic instability and market volatility, rising
interest rates or inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty. In the event of a continued or
future market downturn in general and/or the biotechnology sector in particular, the market price
of our common stock may be adversely affected.


Our shareholder rights plan and certain charter and by-law provisions may deter a third-party from
acquiring us and may impede the stockholders’ ability to remove and replace our management or board
of directors.


Our board of directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan, the purpose of which is to protect
stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer a fair price
to all of our stockholders. The rights plan may have the effect of dissuading a potential acquirer
from making an offer for our common stock at a price that represents a premium to the then current
trading price.


Our board of directors has the authority to issue, at any time, without further stockholder
approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, privileges
and preferences of those shares. An issuance of preferred stock could discourage a third-party
from acquiring a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Additionally, our board of directors
has adopted certain amendments to our by-laws intended to strengthen the board’s position in the
event of a hostile takeover attempt. These provisions could impede the stockholders’ ability to
remove and replace our management and/or board of directors. Furthermore, we are subject to the
provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law, which may
also dissuade a potential acquirer of our common stock.

 

28




Table of Contents



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



Our current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K are
electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC, and all such reports and amendments to such
reports filed have been and will be made available, free of charge, through our website
(http://www.celgene.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such filing. Such reports will
remain available on our website for at least 12 months. The contents of our website are not
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. The public may read and copy any materials
filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NW, Washington, D.C.
20549.


The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports,
proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically
with the SEC.





ITEM 1B