ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered
carefully. Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our
business, prospects, financial condition, operating results or credit ratings, which could cause
the trading price of our common stock to decline. The risks described below are not the only risks
we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we
currently consider immaterial, could also negatively affect our business, our results and
operations.



We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results which could cause our
financial results to be below expectations and cause our stock price to be volatile.



We have historically experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our
quarterly operating results. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are
outside our control, and may result in volatility of our stock price. Future operating results
will depend on many factors, including:







     
    •
     
    demand or lack of demand for our products, including demand that adversely affects our
ability to optimize the use of our manufacturing facilities;









     
    •
     
    the introduction and pricing of products competitive with ours, including generic
competition;









     
    •
     
    developments regarding the safety or efficacy of our products;









     
    •
     
    regulatory approvals for our products and pricing determinations with respect to our
products;









     
    •
     
    regulatory approvals for our and our competitor’s manufacturing facilities;









     
    •
     
    timing and levels of spending for research and development, sales and marketing;









     
    •
     
    timing and levels of reimbursement from third-party payors for our products;









     
    •
     
    development or expansion of business infrastructure in new clinical and geographic
markets;









     
    •
     
    the acquisition of new products and companies;









     
    •
     
    tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate;



     

     
    •
     
    timing and recognition of certain research and development milestones and license fees;









     
    •
     
    ability to control our costs;









     
    •
     
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and









     
    •
     
    economic and market instability.




 

21




Table of Contents



We remain dependent on the continued commercial success of our primary products
REVLIMID®, THALOMID® and
VIDAZA® and a significant decline in
demand for or use of these products or our other commercially available products could materially
and adversely affect our operating results.



During the next several years, the growth of our business will be largely dependent on the
commercial success of REVLIMID®, THALOMID®, and
VIDAZA®. We cannot predict whether these or our other existing or new products will be
accepted by regulators, physicians, patients and other key opinion leaders as effective drugs with
certain advantages over existing or future therapies. We are
continuing to introduce our
products in additional international markets and to obtain approvals for additional indications
both in the United States and internationally. A delay in gaining the requisite regulatory
approvals for these markets or indications could negatively impact our growth plans and the value
of our stock.



Further, if unexpected adverse experiences are reported in connection with the use of our products,
physician and patient comfort with the product could be undermined, the commercial success of such
products could be adversely affected and the acceptance of our other products could be
negatively impacted. We are subject to adverse event reporting regulations that require us to
report to the FDA or similar bodies in other countries if our products are associated with a death
or serious injury. These adverse events, among others, could result in additional regulatory
controls, such as the performance of costly post-approval clinical studies or revisions to our
approved labeling, which could limit the indications or patient population for our products or
could even lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market. Similarly, the occurrence of
serious adverse events known or suspected to be related to the products could negatively impact
product sales. For example, THALOMID® is known to be toxic to the human fetus and
exposure to the drug during pregnancy could result in significant deformities in the baby.
REVLIMID® is also considered fetal toxic and there are warnings against use of
VIDAZA® in pregnant women as well. While we have restricted distribution systems for
both THALOMID® and REVLIMID®  and we endeavor to educate patients regarding
the potential known adverse events including pregnancy risks, we can not ensure that all such
warnings and recommendations will be complied with or that adverse events resulting from
non-compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our business.



It is necessary that our primary products achieve and maintain market acceptance as well as our
other products including ISTODAX®, FOCALIN XR® and the RITALIN®
family of drugs. A number of factors may adversely impact the degree of market acceptance of our
products, including the products’ efficacy, safety and advantages, if any, over competing products,
as well as the reimbursement policies of third-party payors, such as government and private
insurance plans, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects.



Sales of our products will be significantly reduced if access to and reimbursement for our products
by governmental and other third party payors is reduced or terminated.



Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products will
be paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar health care management
organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health
coverage insurers and other third-party payors. Generally, in Europe and other countries outside
the United States, the government-sponsored healthcare system is the primary payor of healthcare costs of patients. These health
care management organizations and third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices
charged for medical products and services. Additionally, the containment of health care costs has
become a priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of drugs have been a focus in
this effort. The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant
interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on
reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. The establishment of
limitations on patient access to our drugs, adoption of price controls, and cost-containment
measures in new jurisdictions or programs, and adoption of more restrictive policies in
jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could adversely impact our business and our
future results. If these organizations and third-party payors do not consider our products to be
cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not reimburse providers or consumers
of our products or, if they do, the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow us to
sell our products on a profitable basis.



 

22




Table of Contents






Our ability to sell our products to hospitals in the United States depends in part on our
relationships with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Many existing and potential customers
for our products become members of GPOs. GPOs negotiate pricing arrangements and contracts,
sometimes on an exclusive basis, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these
negotiated prices are made available to a GPO’s affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are
not one of the providers selected by a GPO, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less
likely to purchase our products, and if the GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share
compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from
making sales to members of the GPO for the duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to
renew contracts with GPOs may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse
effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we
will be able to renew these contracts at the current or substantially similar terms. If we are
unable to keep our relationships and develop new relationships with GPOs, our competitive position
may suffer.



We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most countries outside the United States.
International operations are generally subject to extensive governmental price controls and other
market regulations, and we believe the increasing emphasis on cost-containment initiatives in
Europe and other countries has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our
pharmaceutical and medical device products. Although we cannot predict the extent to which our
business may be affected by future cost-containment measures or other potential legislative or
regulatory developments, additional foreign price controls or other changes in pricing regulation
could restrict the amount that we are able to charge for our current and future products, which
could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.



If we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products we will be unable to sell our
current products and products in development.



Changes in law, government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of
operations. The discovery, preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, risk
evaluation and mitigation strategies (such as our S.T.E.P.S.® and RevAssist®
programs), marketing and labeling of pharmaceuticals and biologics are all subject to extensive
laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act,
the U.S. Public Health Service Act, Medicare Modernization Act, Food and Drug Administration
Amendments Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Sherman Antitrust Act, patent laws,
environmental laws, privacy laws and other federal and state statutes, including anti-kickback,
antitrust and false claims laws, as well as similar laws in foreign jurisdictions. Enforcement of
and changes in laws, government regulations or policies can have a significant adverse impact on
our ability to continue to commercialize our products or introduce new products to the market,
which would adversely affect our results of operations.


 

23




Table of Contents






If we or our agents, contractors or collaborators are delayed in receiving, or are unable to obtain
all, necessary governmental approvals, we will be unable to effectively market our products.



The testing, marketing and manufacturing of our products requires regulatory approval, including
approval from the FDA and, in some cases, from the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, or
governmental authorities outside of the United States that perform roles similar to those of the
FDA and EPA, including the EMA, EC, the Swissmedic, the TGA and Health Canada. Certain of our
pharmaceutical products, such as FOCALIN®, fall under the Controlled Substances Act of
1970 that requires authorization by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA, of the U.S.
Department of Justice in order to handle and distribute these products.



The regulatory approval process presents a number of risks to us, principally:







     
    •
     
    In general, preclinical tests and clinical trials can take many years, and require the
expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can
be susceptible to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory
approval;









     
    •
     
    Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process based
upon the failure of the clinical or other data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the
failure of the product to meet, a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy and
quality or, in the case of a product seeking an orphan drug indication, because another
designee received approval first or receives approval of other labeled indications;









     
    •
     
    Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency
policy, or the adoption of new regulations or legislation;









     
    •
     
    The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may significantly limit the
indicated uses for which a product may be marketed and reimbursed and may impose
significant limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions and contra-indications that
could materially affect the sales and profitability of the drug;









     
    •
     
    Approved products, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing
review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with these products or the failure to
adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their
manufacture, sale or use or in their withdrawal from the market;









     
    •
     
    Regulatory authorities and agencies of the United States or foreign governments may
promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our existing and proposed
products, including specifically tailored risk evaluation and mitigation strategies;









     
    •
     
    Guidelines and recommendations published by various governmental and non-governmental
organizations can reduce the use of our products;









     
    •
     
    Once a product receives marketing approval, we may not market that product for broader
or different applications, and the FDA may not grant us approval with respect to separate
product applications that represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, the
FDA may withdraw or modify existing approvals in a significant manner or promulgate
additional regulations restricting the sale of our present or proposed products. The FDA
may also request that we perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our
existing or proposed products if we or others identify side effects after our products are
on the market;









     
    •
     
    Products, such as REVLIMID®, that are subject to accelerated approval can be
subject to an expedited withdrawal if the post-marketing study commitments are not
completed with due diligence, the post-marketing restrictions are not adhered to or are
shown to be inadequate to assure the safe use of the drug, or evidence demonstrates that
the drug is not shown to be safe and
effective under its conditions of use. Additionally, promotional materials for such
products are subject to enhanced surveillance, including pre-approval review of all
promotional materials used within 120 days following marketing approval and a requirement
for the submissions 30 days prior to initial dissemination of all promotional materials
disseminated after 120 days following marketing approval; and



 

24




Table of Contents







     
    •
     
    Our risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, labeling and promotional activities
relating to our products as well as our post-marketing activities are regulated by the FDA,
the Federal Trade Commission, The United States Department of Justice, the DEA, state
regulatory agencies and foreign regulatory agencies and are subject to associated risks.
In addition, individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active
as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer
protection and false advertising laws. If we fail to comply with regulations regarding the
promotion and sale of our products, appropriate distribution of our products under our
restricted distribution systems, prohibition on off-label promotion and the promotion of
unapproved products, such agencies may bring enforcement actions against us that could
inhibit our commercial capabilities as well as result in significant penalties.





Other matters that may be the subject of governmental or regulatory action which could adversely
affect our business include:







     
    •
     
    changes in laws and regulations, including without limitation, patent, environmental,
privacy, health care and competition laws;









     
    •
     
    importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by
the governments of various foreign countries;









     
    •
     
    additional restrictions on interactions with healthcare professionals; and









     
    •
     
    privacy restrictions that may limit our ability to share data from foreign
jurisdictions.





We collect placentas and umbilical cord blood for our unrelated allogeneic and private stem cell
banking businesses. The FDA’s Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research currently regulates
human tissue or cells intended for transplantation, implantation, infusion or transfer to a human
recipient under 21 CFR Parts 1270 and 1271. Part 1271 requires cell and tissue establishments to
screen and test donors, to prepare and follow written procedures for the prevention of the spread
of communicable disease and to register the establishment with FDA. This part also provides for
inspection by the FDA of cell and tissue establishments. The FDA recently announced that as of
October 21, 2011, a BLA will be required to distribute cord blood for unrelated allogeneic use.
Currently, we are required to be, and are, licensed to operate in New York, New Jersey, Maryland
and California. If other states adopt similar licensing requirements, we would need to obtain such
licenses to continue operating our stem cell banking businesses. If we are delayed in receiving,
or are unable to obtain at all, necessary licenses, we will be unable to provide services in those
states and this could impact negatively on our revenues.



Our products may face competition from lower cost generic or follow-on products and providers of
these products may be able to sell them at a substantially lower cost than us.



Generic drug manufactures are seeking to compete with our drugs and will become an important
challenge to us. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents,
protect trade secrets, obtain licenses to technology owned by third parties and to conduct our
business without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The patent positions of
pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, can be uncertain and involve
complex legal and factual
questions including those related to our risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (such as our
S.T.E.P.S.® and RevAssist® programs).



 

25




Table of Contents






Furthermore, even if our patent applications, or those we have licensed-in, are issued, our
competitors may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of such patents in court, requiring
us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation. Alternatively, our competitors may be able
to design around our owned or licensed patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative
technology. If any of our issued or licensed patents are infringed or challenged, we may not be
successful in enforcing or defending our or our licensor’s intellectual property rights and
subsequently may not be able to develop or market the applicable product exclusively.



Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the “at-risk”
launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic
manufacturer of a generic version of one of our products, we can quickly lose a significant portion
of our sales of that product, which can adversely affect our business. In addition, if generic
versions of our competitors’ branded products lose their market exclusivity, our patented products
may face increased competition which can adversely affect our business.



The FDA approval process allows for the approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application for a generic
version of our approved products upon the expiration, through passage of time or successful legal
challenge, of relevant patent or non-patent exclusivity protection. Generic manufacturers pursuing
ANDA approvals are not required to conduct costly and time-consuming clinical trials to establish
the safety and efficacy of their products; rather, they are permitted to rely on the innovator’s
data regarding safety and efficacy. Thus, generic manufacturers can sell their products at prices
much lower than those charged by the innovative pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies who have
incurred substantial expenses associated with the research and development of the drug product.
Accordingly, while our products currently may retain certain regulatory and or patent exclusivity;
our products are or will be subject to ANDA applications to the FDA in light of the Hatch-Waxman
Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The ANDA procedure includes provisions
allowing generic manufacturers to challenge the effectiveness of the innovator’s patent protection
prior to the generic manufacturer actually commercializing their products—the so-called “Paragraph
IV” certification procedure. In recent years, generic manufacturers have used Paragraph IV
certifications extensively to challenge the applicability of Orange Book-listed patents on a wide
array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and we expect this trend to continue and to implicate drug
products with even relatively modest revenues. During the exclusivity periods, the FDA is
generally prevented from granting effective approval of an ANDA. Upon the expiration of the
applicable exclusivities, through passage of time or successful legal challenge, the FDA may grant
effective approval of an ANDA for a generic drug, or may accept reference to a previously protected
NDA in a 505(b)(2) application. Further, upon such expiration event, the FDA may require a
generic competitor to participate in some form of risk management system which could include our
participation as well. Depending upon the scope of the applicable exclusivities, any such approval
could be limited to certain formulations and/or indications/claims, i.e., those not covered by any
outstanding exclusivities.



If an ANDA filer or a generic manufacturer were to receive approval to sell a generic or follow-on
version of one of our products, that product would become subject to increased competition and our
revenues for that product would be adversely affected.



 

26




Table of Contents


If
we are not able to effectively compete our business will be adversely affected.



The pharmaceutical and biotech industry in which we operate is highly competitive and subject to
rapid and significant technological change. Our present and potential competitors include major
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms, including,
but not limited to:








     
    •
     
    Takeda and Johnson & Johnson, compete with REVLIMID® and THALOMID®
in the treatment of multiple myeloma and in clinical trials with our compounds;









     
    •
     
    Eisai Co., Ltd., SuperGen, Inc. and Johnson & Johnson compete or may potentially compete
with VIDAZA®;









     
    •
     
    Amgen, which potentially competes with our TNF-a and kinase inhibitors;









     
    •
     
    AstraZeneca plc, which potentially competes in clinical trials with our compounds and
TNF-a inhibitors;









     
    •
     
    Biogen Idec Inc. and Genzyme Corporation, both of which are generally developing drugs
that address the oncology and immunology markets;









     
    •
     
    Bristol Myers Squibb Co., which potentially competes in clinical trials with our
compounds and TNF-a inhibitors;









     
    •
     
    F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd., which potentially competes in clinical trials with our
IMiDs® compounds and TNF-a inhibitors;









     
    •
     
    Johnson & Johnson, which potentially competes with certain of our proprietary programs,
including our oral anti-inflammatory programs;









     
    •
     
    Novartis, which potentially competes with our compounds and kinase programs; and









     
    •
     
    Pfizer, which potentially competes in clinical trials with our kinase inhibitors.





Many of these companies have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than
we do. This enables them, among other things, to make greater research and development investments
and spread their research and development costs, as well as their marketing and promotion costs,
over a broader revenue base. Our competitors may also have more experience and expertise in
obtaining marketing approvals from the FDA, and other regulatory authorities. We also experience
competition from universities and other research institutions, and in some instances, we compete
with others in acquiring technology from these sources. The pharmaceutical industry has undergone,
and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change, and we expect
competition to intensify as technical advances in the field are made and become more widely known.
The development of products, including generics, or processes by our competitors with significant
advantages over those that we are seeking to develop could cause the marketability of our products
to stagnate or decline.



We may be required to modify our business practices, pay fines and significant expenses or
experience losses due to governmental investigations or other litigation.



From time to time, we may be subject to governmental investigation or litigation on a variety of
matters, including, without limitation, regulatory, intellectual property, product liability,
antitrust, consumer, commercial, securities and employment litigation and claims and other legal
proceedings that may arise from the conduct of our business as currently conducted or as conducted
in the future.



In particular, we are subject to significant product liability risks as a result of the testing of
our products in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval.



Pharmaceutical companies involved in Hatch-Waxman litigation are often subject to follow-on
lawsuits and governmental investigations, which may be costly and could result in lower-priced
generic products that are competitive with our products being introduced to the market.



 

27




Table of Contents






In the fourth quarter of 2009, we received a civil inquiry and demand from the
Federal Trade Commission (FTC). The FTC requested documents and other information relating to
requests by generic companies to purchase our patented THALOMID® and REVLIMID®
brand drugs in order to evaluate whether there is reason to believe that we have engaged in
unfair methods of competition. We continue to cooperate with the FTC’s request for information.


Litigation and governmental investigations are inherently unpredictable and may:







     
    •
     
    result in rulings that are materially unfavorable to us, including a requirement that
we pay significant damages, fines or penalties or prevent us from operating our business
in a certain manner;









     
    •
     
    cause us to change our business operations to avoid perceived risks associated with
such litigation or investigations;









     
    •
     
    have an adverse affect on our reputation and the demand for our products; and









     
    •
     
    require the expenditure of significant time and resources, which may divert the
attention of our management and interfere with the pursuit of our strategic objectives.





While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be
adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. It also is not possible
to obtain insurance to protect against all potential risks and liabilities. If any litigation or
governmental investigation were to have a material adverse result, there could be a material impact
on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. See also Legal Proceedings
contained in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



The development of new biopharmaceutical products involves a lengthy and complex process, and we
may be unable to commercialize any of the products we are currently developing.



Many of our drug candidates are in the early or mid-stages of research and development and will
require the commitment of substantial financial resources, extensive research, development,
preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval prior to being
ready for sale. This process involves a high degree of risk and takes many years. Our product
development efforts with respect to a product candidate may fail for many reasons, including the
failure of the product candidate in preclinical studies; adverse patient reactions to the product
candidate or indications or other safety concerns; insufficient clinical trial data to support the
effectiveness or superiority of the product candidate; our inability to manufacture sufficient
quantities of the product candidate for development or commercialization activities in a timely and
cost-efficient manner; our failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, the required regulatory
approvals for the product candidate, the facilities or the process used to manufacture the product
candidate; or changes in the regulatory environment, including pricing and reimbursement, that make
development of a new product or of an existing product for a new indication no longer desirable.
Moreover, our commercially available products may require additional studies with respect to
approved indications as well as new indications pending approval.



The stem cell products that we are developing through our CCT subsidiary may represent substantial
departures from established treatment methods and will compete with a number of traditional
products and therapies which are now, or may be in the future, manufactured and marketed by major
pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, public attitudes may be influenced by
claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe, and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the
public or the medical community.



 

28




Table of Contents






Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in conducting clinical studies, we can give no assurances
that our studies will have a positive result or that we will receive regulatory approvals for our
new products or new indications.



Manufacturing and distribution risks including a disruption at certain of our manufacturing sites
would significantly interrupt our production capabilities, which could result in significant
product delays and adversely affect our results.



We have our own manufacturing facilities for many of our products and we have contracted with third
party manufacturers and distributors to provide API, encapsulation, finishing services packaging
and distribution services to meet our needs. These risks include the possibility that our or our
suppliers’ manufacturing processes could be partially or completely disrupted by a fire, natural
disaster, terrorist attack, governmental action or military action. In the case of a disruption, we
may need to establish alternative manufacturing sources for these products. This would likely lead
to substantial production delays as we build or locate replacement facilities and seek and obtain
the necessary regulatory approvals. If this occurs, and our finished goods inventories are
insufficient to meet demand, we may be unable to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis, if at
all. Further, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses
that may occur and we would have to bear the additional cost of any disruption. For these reasons,
a significant disruptive event at certain of our manufacturing facilities or sites could materially
and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, if we fail to predict
market demand for our products, we may be unable to sufficiently increase production capacity to
satisfy demand or may incur costs associated with excess inventory that we manufacture.



In all the countries where we sell our products, governmental regulations exist to define standards
for manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution and storing. All of our suppliers of raw
materials, contract manufacturers and distributors must comply with these regulations as
applicable. In the United States, the FDA requires that all suppliers of pharmaceutical bulk
material and all manufacturers of pharmaceuticals for sale in or from the United States achieve and
maintain compliance with the FDA’s cGMP regulations and guidelines. Our failure to comply, or
failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could result in
sanctions being imposed on them or us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, disgorgement,
suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products,
operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely
affect supplies of our products. In addition, before any product batch produced by our
manufacturers can be shipped, it must conform to release specifications pre-approved by regulators
for the content of the pharmaceutical product. If the operations of one or more of our
manufacturers were to become unavailable for any reason, any required FDA review and approval of
the operations of an alternative supplier could cause a delay in the manufacture of our products.



If our outside manufacturers do not meet our requirements for quality, quantity or timeliness, or
do not achieve and maintain compliance with all applicable regulations, our ability to continue
supplying such products at a level that meets demand could be adversely affected.



We have contracted with specialty distributors, to distribute THALOMID®,
REVLIMID® and VIDAZA® in the United States. If our distributors fail to
perform and we cannot secure a replacement distributor within a reasonable period of time, we may
experience adverse effects to our business and results of operations.



We are continuing to establish marketing and distribution capabilities in international markets
with respect to our products. At the same time, we are in the process of obtaining necessary
governmental and regulatory approvals to sell our products in certain countries. If we have not
successfully completed and
implemented adequate marketing and distribution support services upon our receipt of such
approvals, our ability to effectively launch our products in these countries would be severely
restricted.



 

29




Table of Contents






The consolidation of drug wholesalers and other wholesaler actions could increase competitive and
pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us.



We sell our pharmaceutical products in the United States primarily through wholesale distributors
and contracted pharmacies. These wholesale customers comprise a significant part of the
distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. This distribution network is
continuing to undergo significant consolidation. As a result, a smaller number of large wholesale
distributors control a significant share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug
wholesalers will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers,
including us. In addition, wholesalers may apply pricing pressure through fee-for-service
arrangements, and their purchases may exceed customer demand, resulting in reduced wholesaler
purchases in later quarters. We cannot assure you that we can manage these pressures or that
wholesaler purchases will not decrease as a result of this potential excess buying.



Risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents or contractors or collaborators could
adversely affect our business or reputation.



We cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies and procedures will in every instance
protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors or collaborators that would
violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including without
limitation, employment, foreign corrupt practices, environmental, competition and privacy laws.
Such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and injunctive
penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results of operations and
reputation.



We may face significant challenges in effectively integrating entities and businesses that we
acquire and we may not realize the benefits that we anticipate from any such acquisition.



Achieving the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of entities will depend in part upon
whether we can integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. Our
integration of these entities involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to:







    •
     
    demands on management related to the increase in our size after the acquisition;



     

    •
     
    the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the
integration of operations;



     

    •
     
    failure of the acquired entity to meet or exceed our expected returns;



     

    •
     
    higher integration costs than anticipated;



     

    •
     
    failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings;



     

    •
     
    difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees;



     

    •
     
    difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the
assimilation of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and



     

    •
     
    difficulties in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems,
technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards,
controls (including
internal control over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002) and related procedures and policies.



 

30




Table of Contents



If we cannot successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may experience material negative
consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations.



Our failure to attract and retain key managerial, technical, scientific, selling and marketing
personnel could adversely affect our business.



The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to (i) attract and
retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel,
(ii) successfully integrate large numbers of new employees into our corporate culture and (iii)
develop and maintain important relationships with leading research and medical institutions and key
distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense.



Among other benefits, we use share-based compensation to attract and retain personnel. Share-based
compensation accounting rules require us to recognize all share-based compensation costs as
expenses. These or other factors could reduce the number of shares and options management and our
board of directors grants under our incentive plan. We cannot be sure that we will be able to
attract or retain skilled personnel or maintain key relationships, or that the costs of retaining
such personnel or maintaining such relationships will not materially increase.



We could be subject to significant liability as a result of risks associated with using hazardous
materials in our business.



We use certain hazardous materials in our research, development, manufacturing and general business
activities. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with the federal, state
and local laws and regulations governing the use of these materials, we cannot be certain that
accidental injury or contamination will not occur. If an accident or environmental discharge
occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and
operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines.
This could result in substantial liabilities that could exceed our insurance coverage and financial
resources. Additionally, the cost of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations
may increase in the future, requiring us to expend more financial resources either in compliance or
in purchasing supplemental insurance coverage.



Changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations.



We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our
domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among
these different jurisdictions. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our
effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of
existing tax laws, the accounting for stock options and other share-based compensation, changes in
tax laws and rates, future levels of research and development spending, changes in accounting
standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, the
outcome of examinations by the Internal Revenue Service and other jurisdictions, the accuracy of
our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits and realization of deferred tax assets, and changes in
overall levels of pre-tax earnings. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the
above-mentioned factors may be significant and could have an impact on our results of operations.



Currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could increase our costs and may cause our
profitability to decline.



We collect and pay a substantial portion of our sales and expenditures in currencies other than the
U.S. dollar. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating
results.



 

31




Table of Contents






We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency risk, but not to engage in
currency speculation. We use these forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted transactions and
balance sheet exposures denominated in foreign currencies. We use derivative instruments,
including those not designated as part of a hedging transaction, to manage our exposure to
movements in foreign exchange rates. The use of these derivative instruments mitigates the
exposure of these risks with the intent to reduce our risk or cost but may not fully offset any
change in operating results that result from fluctuations in foreign currencies. Any significant
foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.



We may experience an adverse market reaction if we are unable to meet our financial reporting
obligations.



As we continue to expand at a rapid pace, the development of new and/or improved automated systems
will remain an ongoing priority. During this expansion period, our internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements in our financial reporting. Such misstatements
may result in litigation and/or negative publicity and possibly cause an adverse market reaction
that may negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our common stock.



The decline of global economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations.



Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on reimbursement from government health
administration authorities, private health insurers, distribution partners and other organizations.
As a result of the current global credit and financial market conditions, these organizations may
be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. In addition, U.S.
federal and state health authorities may reduce Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private
insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the availability or extent of
reimbursement could negatively affect our product sales, revenue and cash flows.



Due to the recent tightening of global credit, there may be a disruption or delay in the
performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third parties
for several important aspects of our business, including portions of our product manufacturing,
royalty revenue, clinical development of future collaboration products, conduct of clinical trials
and raw materials. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our
business could be adversely affected.



The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and you may lose some or all of your
investment in us.



The market for our shares of common stock may be subject to disruptions that could cause volatility
in its price. In general, the current global economic crisis has caused substantial market
volatility and instability. Any such disruptions or continuing volatility may adversely affect the
value of our common stock. In addition to current global economic instability in general, the
following key factors may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock:







     
    •
     
    results of our clinical trials or adverse events associated with our marketed products;









     
    •
     
    fluctuations in our commercial and operating results;









     
    •
     
    announcements of technical or product developments by us or our competitors;









     
    •
     
    market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular;



 

32




Table of Contents






     
    •
     
    stock market conditions generally;









     
    •
     
    changes in governmental regulations and laws, including, without limitation, changes in
tax laws, health care legislation, environmental laws, competition laws, and patent laws;









     
    •
     
    new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings;









     
    •
     
    public announcements regarding medical advances in the treatment of the disease states
that we are targeting;









     
    •
     
    patent or proprietary rights developments;









     
    •
     
    changes in pricing and third-party reimbursement policies for our products;









     
    •
     
    the outcome of litigation involving our products or processes related to production and
formulation of those products or uses of those products;









     
    •
     
    other litigation or governmental investigations;









     
    •
     
    competition; and









     
    •
     
    investor reaction to announcements regarding business or product acquisitions.





In addition, our operations may be materially affected by conditions in the global markets and
economic conditions throughout the world, including the current global economic and market
instability. The global market and economic climate may continue to deteriorate because of many
factors beyond our control, including continued economic instability and market volatility, rising
interest rates or inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty. In the event of a continued or
future market downturn in general and/or the biotechnology sector in particular, the market price
of our common stock may be adversely affected.



A breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or
interrupt the operation of our business.



We rely upon our information technology systems and infrastructure for our business. The size and
complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious
intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others who access
our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the
public. While we believe that we have taken appropriate security measures to protect our data and
information technology systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns
or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.



We have certain charter and by-law provisions that may deter a third-party from acquiring us and
may impede the stockholders’ ability to remove and replace our management or board of directors.



Our board of directors has the authority to issue, at any time, without further stockholder
approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, privileges
and preferences of those shares. An issuance of preferred stock could discourage a third-party
from acquiring a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Additionally, our board of directors
has adopted certain amendments to our by-laws intended to strengthen the board’s position in the
event of a hostile takeover attempt. These provisions could impede the stockholders’ ability to
remove and replace our management and/or board of directors. Furthermore, we are subject to the
provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General
Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law, which may also dissuade a potential acquirer of our common
stock.



 

33






Table of Contents



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



Our current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K are
electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC, and all such reports and amendments to such
reports filed have been and will be made available, free of charge, through our website
(http://www.celgene.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such filing. Such reports will
remain available on our website for at least 12 months. The contents of our website are not
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. The public may read and copy any materials
filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NW, Washington, D.C.
20549.



The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports,
proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically
with the SEC.






ITEM 1B