. “Risk Factors.”Clinical Development:  Before a product may be administered to human subjects, it must undergo preclinical testing. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of a product candidate's chemistry and biological activities and animal studies to assess potential safety and efficacy. The results of these studies must be submitted to the FDA as part of an Investigational New Drug (IND) application which must be reviewed by the FDA primarily for safety considerations before clinical trials in humans can begin.Typically, clinical trials in humans involve a three-phase process as previously described under “- Product Development.”In some cases, further studies beyond the three-phase clinical trial process described above are required as a condition for an NDA or biologics license application (BLA) approval. The FDA requires monitoring of all aspects of clinical trials and reports of all adverse events must be made to the FDA. The FDA may also require the conduct of pediatric studies for the drug and indication either before or after submission of an NDA.FDA Review and Approval:    The results of the preclinical testing and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA or BLA for evaluation to determine if there is substantial evidence that the product is sufficiently safe and effective to warrant approval.  In responding to an NDA or BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, deny approval, or request additional information, including data from new clinical trials. Expedited Programs for Serious Conditions:    The FDA has developed four distinct approaches to make new drugs available as rapidly as possible in cases where there is no available treatment or there are advantages over existing treatments.The FDA may grant “accelerated approval” to products that have been studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments. For accelerated approval, the product must have an effect on a surrogate endpoint or an intermediate clinical endpoint that is considered reasonably likely to predict the clinical benefit of a drug, such as an effect on irreversible morbidity and mortality. When approval is based on surrogate endpoints or clinical endpoints other than survival or morbidity, the sponsor will be required to conduct additional post-approval clinical studies to verify and describe clinical benefit. These studies are known as confirmatory trials. Approval of a drug may be withdrawn or the labeled indication of the drug changed if these trials fail to verify clinical benefit or do not demonstrate sufficient clinical benefit to justify the risks associated with the drug.The FDA may grant “fast track” status to products that treat serious diseases or conditions and fill an unmet medical need. Fast track is a process designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of such products by providing, among other things, more frequent meetings with the FDA to discuss the product's development plan, more frequent written correspondence from the FDA about trial design, eligibility for accelerated approval if relevant criteria are met, and rolling review, which allows submission of individually completed sections of an NDA or BLA for FDA review before the entire submission is completed. Fast track status does not ensure that a product will be developed more quickly or receive FDA approval.“Breakthrough Therapy” designation is a process designed to expedite the development and review of drugs that are intended to treat a serious condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint. For drugs and biologics that have been designated as Breakthrough Therapies, robust FDA-sponsor interaction and communication can help to identify the most efficient and expeditious path for clinical development while minimizing the number of patients placed in ineffective control regimens.The FDA may grant “priority review” status to products that, if approved, would provide  significant improvement in the safety or effectiveness of the treatment, diagnosis, or prevention of serious conditions. Priority review is intended to reduce the time it takes for the FDA to review an NDA or BLA, with the goal to take action on the application within six months.Orphan Drug Act: Pursuant to the United States Orphan Drug Act, a sponsor may request that the FDA designate a drug intended to treat a “rare disease or condition” as an “orphan drug.” A “rare disease or condition” is defined as one which affects less than 200,000 people in the United States, or which affects more than 200,000 people, but for which the cost of developing and making available the product is not expected to be recovered from sales of the product in the United States. Upon the approval of the first NDA or BLA for a drug designated as an orphan drug for a specified indication, the sponsor of that NDA or BLA is entitled to seven years of exclusive marketing rights in the United States unless the sponsor cannot assure the availability of sufficient quantities to meet the needs of persons with the disease. However, orphan drug status is particular to the approved indication and does not prevent another company from seeking approval of an off-patent drug that has other labeled indications that are not under orphan or other exclusivities. Orphan drugs may also be eligible for federal income tax credits for costs associated with 11Table of Contentsthe drugs' development. In order to increase the development and marketing of drugs for rare disorders, regulatory bodies outside the United States have enacted regulations similar to the Orphan Drug Act.Review and Approval Outside of the United States:    Approval procedures must be undertaken in virtually every other country comprising the market for our products. The approval procedure and the time required for approval vary from country to country and may involve additional testing.  In certain countries such as the EU countries, Switzerland, Canada and Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar to those in the United States, where approval decisions by regulators are based on the regulators’ review of the results of clinical trials performed for specific indications.  Other countries may have a less comprehensive review process in terms of data requirements and may rely on prior marketing approval from a foreign regulatory authority in the United States or the EU.Manufacturing Quality Control:    Among the conditions for NDA or BLA approval is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer’s quality control and manufacturing procedures continually conform with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations (which are regulations established by the FDA governing the manufacture, processing, packing, storage and testing of drugs and biologics intended for human use). In complying with cGMP, manufacturers must devote substantial time, money and effort in the areas of production, quality control and quality assurance to maintain compliance.  Material changes in manufacturing equipment, location or process, may result in additional regulatory review and approval.  The FDA, the EC and other regulatory agencies conduct periodic visits to inspect equipment, facilities, and processes following the initial approval of a product.  If a manufacturing facility is not in substantial compliance with the applicable regulations and requirements imposed when the  product was approved, regulatory enforcement action may be taken, which may include a warning letter or an injunction against shipment of products from the facility and/or recall of products previously shipped.Post-approval Review and Enforcement:    Regulatory authorities closely review and regulate the marketing and promotion of drug and biologic products. In most countries, regulatory approval is granted for a specified indication and is required before marketing or promoting a product for that indication. Regulatory authorities may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product ("off-label promotion") or for other violations of advertising and labeling laws and regulations.When an NDA or BLA is approved, the NDA or BLA holder must, among other things, (a) employ a system for obtaining reports of drug adverse events and side effects associated with the drug and make appropriate submissions to the FDA and (b) timely advise the FDA if any marketed product fails to adhere to specifications established by the NDA or BLA. If the FDA concludes that a drug previously shown to be effective can be safely used only if distribution or use is restricted, the FDA will require post-marketing restrictions as necessary to assure safe use. The sponsor may be required to establish systems to assure use of the product under safe conditions. The FDA may require the drug sponsor to implement REMS to ensure that benefits of a drug outweigh risks and that safety protocols are adhered to.In addition, a sponsor of a drug product has ongoing reporting obligations concerning assessment of serious risks associated with the drug. Following assessment of these reports, regulatory authorities can require product label updates to reflect new safety data or warnings. If the FDA or other regulatory authorities become aware of new safety information, they can also require us to conduct studies or clinical trials to assess the potential for a serious risk. The FDA and other regulatory authorities can also impose marketing restrictions, including the suspension of marketing or complete withdrawal of a product from the market.The FDA may issue publicly available warning letters and non-compliance letters, which may require corrective actions, including modification of advertising or other corrective communications to consumers or healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other regulatory agency requirements can result in enforcement actions, such as license revocation or suspension; orders for retention, recall, seizure or destruction of product; cessation of manufacturing; injunctions; inspection warrants; search warrants; civil penalties, including fines based on disgorgement; restitution; and criminal prosecution.Other Regulations:  We are also subject to various federal and state laws, as well as foreign laws, pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. False claims laws prohibit knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) any claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities related to the sale and marketing of our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws.  Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).12Table of ContentsWe are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Our research and development activities may involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials and various radioactive compounds. We believe our procedures comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state or local laws, rules and  regulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental contamination cannot be completely eliminated.  Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate, in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad.  The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and regulations to which our activities are subject.COMPETITIONOur current products and products under development face competition from other innovative drugs and, in some cases, generic drugs.  The relative speed with which we develop new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals, receive pricing and reimbursement approvals, and finalize manufacturing and distribution arrangements, and market our products are critical factors in gaining a competitive advantage. Competition among approved products depends, among other things, on product efficacy, safety, convenience, reliability, availability, price, third-party reimbursement, sales and promotional activities, product liability issues and patent and non-patent exclusivity. For additional information, see Item 1A. "Risk Factors.”SIGNIFICANT ALLIANCESWe have entered into a variety of alliances in the ordinary course of our business. Although we do not consider any individual alliance to be material, a brief description of certain of the more notable alliances are identified in Note 17 of  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.MANUFACTURING We own and operate an FDA approved manufacturing facility in Zofingen, Switzerland which produces the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) for REVLIMID® and THALOMID® and have contracted with FDA approved third-party contract manufacturers to provide backup API manufacturing services for these products. Manufacturing services for REVLIMID® and THALOMID®, which consist of formulation, encapsulation, packaging, warehousing and distribution, are performed at our FDA approved drug product manufacturing facility in Boudry, Switzerland. We have contracted with a number of third-party drug product manufacturing service providers and packaging service providers to provide backup manufacturing and packaging services. All of our third-party service providers are approved by the regulatory authorities for the geographies that they serve.The API for ABRAXANE® is generally available from multiple sources and is normally available in quantities adequate to meet our needs. Manufacturing services for ABRAXANE® are performed at our manufacturing facility in Arizona and by an approved third party contract manufacturing facility.The API for VIDAZA® is supplied by three suppliers. Manufacturing and packaging services are provided by a number of third-party service providers.The API for the azacitidine for injection (generic version of VIDAZA®) is supplied by a single -source supplier.  Manufacturing and packaging services are provided by a single manufacturer.The API for POMALYST®/IMNOVID® is supplied by a single-source supplier with primary manufacturing services being performed at our Boudry manufacturing facility.We have contracted with a number of third-party drug product manufacturing service providers and packaging service providers to provide backup manufacturing and packaging services for this product.The API for ISTODAX® is supplied by a single-source supplier. Manufacturing and packaging services are  provided by a number of third-party service providers.The API for OTEZLA® (apremilast) is supplied by two suppliers with manufacturing services being performed at our Boudry manufacturing facility. We expect to utilize third-party service providers for backup manufacturing and packaging services for this product.The API for FOCALIN® and FOCALIN XR® is currently obtained from two suppliers, and we rely on a single manufacturer for the tableting and packaging of FOCALIN® finished product.13Table of ContentsCCT currently operates an FDA registered facility in Cedar Knolls, New Jersey for the recovery and storage of cord blood and placental stem cells for LifeBankUSA®. In addition, our Warren, New Jersey facility is FDA registered for production of PDA-001 and PDA-002, which are culture-expanded placenta-derived stem cell products, under cGMP to supply clinical studies. This is a multi-purpose facility capable of supporting other products.INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONSWe have significant operations outside the United States conducted both through our subsidiaries and through distributors. Revenues from operations outside the United States were $2.632 billion, or 40.5% of total revenues in 2013, $2.338 billion, or 42.4% of total revenues in 2012 and $1.981 billion, or 40.9% of total revenues in 2011. The decrease in the percentage of total revenues from outside of the United States in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to increased U.S. sales of ABRAXANE®  resulting from the October 2012 and September 2013 FDA approvals for treatment of NSCLC and pancreatic cancer, respectively, as well as the U.S. launch of POMALYST® resulting from the February 2013 FDA approval for treatment of relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. Our international headquarters and a drug product manufacturing facility which performs formulation, encapsulation, packaging, warehousing and distribution are located in Boudry, Switzerland. We continue to expand our international regulatory, clinical and commercial infrastructure and currently conduct our international operations in over 50 countries and have sales in over 70 countries and regions including Europe, Latin America, Middle East, Asia/Pacific and Canada.Our international operations are subject to risks associated with operating on an international basis including currency fluctuations, price and exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions. Our international operations are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws on pricing, reimbursement and access to our products. Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. While we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using foreign currency derivative instruments. See the discussions under Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."SALES AND COMMERCIALIZATIONWe promote our brands globally through our commercial organization which supports our currently marketed brands and prepares for the launches of new products, as well as new indications for existing products. We have a team of dedicated market access professionals to help physicians, patients and payers understand the value our products deliver. Given our goal to ensure that patients who might benefit from our therapies have the opportunity to do so and given the complex reimbursement environment in the United States, we offer the services of Celgene Patient Support® or similar outside services to serve as a dedicated, central point of contact for patients and healthcare professionals who use or prescribe Celgene products. Celgene Patient Support® is a free service that helps patients and healthcare professionals navigate the challenges of reimbursement, providing information about co-pay assistance and answering questions about obtaining Celgene products.In most countries, we promote our products through our own sales organizations. In some countries, particularly in Latin America, we partner with third-party distributors.  Generally, we distribute our products through commonly used channels in local markets. However, REVLIMID®, POMALYST®/IMNOVID® and THALOMID®/Thalidomide CelgeneTM are distributed under mandatory risk-management distribution programs tailored to meet local authorities' specifications to provide for their safe and appropriate distribution and use.EMPLOYEESAs of December 31, 2013, we had 5,100 full-time employees, of whom 2,110 were engaged primarily in research and development activities, 1,690 engaged primarily in sales and commercialization activities, 470 engaged primarily in manufacturing, and the remaining 830 engaged primarily in executive and general and administrative activities. The number of full-time employees in our international operations has grown from 1,834 at the end of 2012 to 1,933 at the end of 2013. We also employ a number of part-time employees and maintain consulting arrangements with a number of researchers at various universities and other research institutions around the world.AVAILABLE INFORMATIONOur Current Reports on Form 8-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and all such reports and amendments to such reports have been and will be made available, free of charge, through our website (http://www.celgene.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such submission to the SEC. Such reports will remain available on our website for at least 12 months. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549.14Table of ContentsThe public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO SECTION 219 OF THE IRAN THREAT REDUCTION AND SYRIA HUMAN RIGHTS ACT OF 2012Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRSHRA) added Section 13(r) to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which requires, among other things, disclosure by an issuer, in its annual or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of its affiliates knowingly conducted, without specific authority from a U.S. federal department or agency, any transaction or dealing with the Government of Iran, which includes, without limitation, any person or entity owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Iran or any of its political subdivisions, agencies or instrumentalities. Neither Celgene nor, to its knowledge, any of its affiliates engaged in activities during 2013 that are required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRSHRA.FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSCertain statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are considered forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) concerning our business, results of operations, economic performance and/or financial condition, based on management's current expectations, plans, estimates, assumptions and projections. Forward-looking statements are included, for example, in the discussions about:•strategy;•new product discovery and development;•current or pending clinical trials;•our products' ability to demonstrate efficacy or an acceptable safety profile;•actions by the FDA and other regulatory authorities;•product manufacturing, including our arrangements with third-party suppliers;•product introduction and sales;•royalties and contract revenues;•expenses and net income;•credit and foreign exchange risk management;•liquidity;•asset and liability risk management;•the outcome of litigation and other proceedings;•intellectual property rights and protection;•economic factors;•competition; and•operational and legal risks.Any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates," "aims," "plans," "may," "could," "will," "will continue," "seeks," "should," "predict," "potential," "outlook," "guidance," "target," "forecast," "probable," "possible" or the negative of such terms and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to change and may be affected by risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond our control. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement in light of new information or future events, although we intend to continue to meet our ongoing disclosure obligations under the U.S. securities laws and other applicable laws.We caution you that a number of important factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements, and therefore you should not place too much reliance on them. These factors include, among others, those described herein, under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report and in our other public reports filed with the SEC. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, and therefore the factors that are noted are not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may affect forward-looking statements. If these or other risks and uncertainties materialize, or if the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, our actual performance and future actions may be materially different from those expressed in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. We can offer no assurance that our estimates or expectations will prove accurate or that we will be able to achieve our strategic and operational goals.15Table of ContentsITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORSThe following describes the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully.  Any of these factors could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results or credit ratings, which could cause the trading prices of our equity securities to decline.  The risks described below are not the only risks we may face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, could also negatively affect us. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year for a number of reasons, including the risks discussed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. Events such as a delay in product development or a revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a particular period to be below our expectations. In addition, we have experienced and may continue to experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to the timing of charges that we may take.  We have recorded, or may be required to record, charges that include development milestone and license payments under collaboration and license agreements and amortization of acquired intangibles and other acquisition related charges.Our revenues are also subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operation in the period in which we incur those gains or losses. Although we utilize foreign currency forward contracts and option contracts to manage foreign currency risk, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. As a result, currency fluctuation among our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business will affect our operating results. Our net income may also fluctuate due to the impact of charges we may be required to take with respect to foreign currency and other hedge transactions. In particular, we may incur higher than expected charges from hedge ineffectiveness or from the termination of a hedge arrangement.We are dependent on the continued commercial success of our primary products, REVLIMID®, VIDAZA®, THALOMID®, ABRAXANE® and POMALYST ®/IMNOVID ®. Currently, our business is largely dependent on the commercial success of REVLIMID®, VIDAZA®, THALOMID®, ABRAXANE® and POMALYST®/IMNOVID®. The success of these products depends on acceptance by regulators, key opinion leaders, physicians, and patients as effective drugs with certain advantages over other therapies.  A number of factors, as discussed in greater detail below, may adversely impact the degree of acceptance of these products, including their efficacy, safety, price and benefits over competing products, as well as the reimbursement policies of third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans.  If unexpected adverse events are reported in connection with the use of any of these products, physician and patient acceptance of the product could deteriorate and the commercial success of such product could be adversely affected.  We are required to report to the FDA or similar bodies in other countries events associated with our products relating to death or serious injury. Adverse events could result in additional regulatory controls, such as a requirement for costly post-approval clinical studies or revisions to our approved labeling which could limit the indications or patient population for a product or could even lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market. THALOMID® is known to be toxic to the human fetus and exposure to the drug during pregnancy could result in significant deformities.  REVLIMID® and POMALYST®/IMNOVID® are also considered toxic to the human fetus and their respective labels contain warnings against use by pregnant women. While we have restricted distribution systems for THALOMID®, REVLIMID®, and POMALYST®/IMNOVID®, and endeavor to educate patients regarding the potential known adverse events, including pregnancy risks, we cannot ensure that all such warnings and recommendations will be complied with or that adverse events resulting from non-compliance will not occur. Our future commercial success depends on gaining regulatory approval for products in development, and obtaining approvals for our current products for additional indications. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of our products require regulatory approvals, including approval from the FDA and similar bodies in other countries. Certain of our pharmaceutical products, such as FOCALIN®, also require authorization by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) of the U.S. Department of Justice.  Our future growth would be negatively impacted if we fail to obtain timely, or at all, requisite regulatory approvals in the United States and internationally for products in development and approvals for our existing products for additional indications. 16Table of ContentsThe principal risks to obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals are as follows:•In general, preclinical tests and clinical trials can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials may not lead to regulatory approval;•Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process if the clinical or other data fails to demonstrate compliance with a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy and quality;•Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency policy or the adoption of new regulations or legislation;•Even if a product is approved, the scope of the approval may significantly limit the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed and may impose significant limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions and contra-indications that could materially affect the sales and profitability of the product;•After a product is approved, the FDA or other international regulatory agency may withdraw or modify an approval in a significant manner or request that we perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product due to a number of reasons, including safety concerns, adverse events and side effects;•Products, such as REVLIMID® and POMALYST®/IMNOVID®, that are subject to accelerated approval can be subject to an expedited withdrawal if post-marketing restrictions are not adhered to or are shown to be inadequate to assure safe use, or if the drug is shown to be unsafe or ineffective under its conditions of use;•Guidelines and recommendations published by various governmental and non-governmental organizations can reduce the use of our approved products;•Approved products, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing review by regulatory agencies, and the discovery of previously unknown problems with these products or the failure to comply with manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on the manufacture, sale or use of a product or its withdrawal from the market; and•Changes in regulatory agency policy or the adoption of new regulations or legislation could impose restrictions on the sale of our approved products.If we fail to comply with laws or government regulations or policies our business could be adversely affected.The discovery, preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (such as our REMS® program), marketing and labeling of pharmaceuticals and biologics are all subject to extensive laws and government regulations and policies.  In addition, individual states, acting through their attorneys general, are increasingly seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations regarding the promotion and sale of our products, appropriate distribution of our products under our restricted distribution systems, off-label promotion and the promotion of unapproved products, government agencies may bring enforcement actions against us that could inhibit our commercial capabilities and result in significant penalties. Other matters that may be the subject of governmental or regulatory action which could adversely affect our business include laws, regulations and policies governing:•protection of the environment, privacy, healthcare reimbursement programs, and competition;•parallel importation of prescription drugs from outside the United States at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries; and•premature or mandated disclosures of clinical trial or other data.The FDA’s Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research currently regulates human tissue or cells intended for transplantation, implantation, infusion or transfer to a human, requiring, among other things, cell and tissue establishments to screen and test donors, prepare and follow written procedures for the prevention of the spread of communicable disease and register with FDA. Through our CCT subsidiary, we are licensed in certain states to operate our allogeneic and private stem cell banking businesses. If we are unable to maintain those licenses or are unable to obtain licenses in other states that may adopt similar licensing requirements, those businesses could be adversely affected. 17Table of ContentsSales of our products will be significantly reduced if access to and reimbursement for our products by governmental and other third-party payers is reduced or terminated. Sales of our current and future products depend, in large part, on the conditions under which our products are paid for by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar health care management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payers.  Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the United States, the government-sponsored healthcare system is the primary payer of patients’ healthcare costs.  These health care management organizations and third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, seeking to implement cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products.  Our products continue to be subject to increasing price and reimbursement pressure due to price controls imposed by governments in many countries; increased difficulty in obtaining and maintaining satisfactory drug reimbursement rates; and the tendency of governments and private health care providers to favor generic pharmaceuticals. In addition, governmental and private third-party payers and purchasers of our products may restrict access to formularies or otherwise discourage use of our products. Limitations on patient access to our drugs, adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures could adversely affect our business. In addition, our operating results may also be affected by distributors seeking to take advantage of price differences among various markets by buying our products on low cost markets for resale in higher cost markets.The Affordable Care Act will affect our profitability.In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable Care Act), was enacted in the United States.  The provisions of the Affordable Care Act became effective over various periods from 2010 through 2014. We expect that the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs resulting from the Affordable Care Act will have a significant effect on our profitability in the future. In addition, potential reductions of the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending under the Affordable Care Act, could potentially limit access to certain treatments or mandate price controls for our products. Similarly, the promulgation of new regulations concerning rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs, or the interpretation and enforcement of new or existing regulations by government agencies could affect our profitability in ways that are difficult to predict. Our ability to sell our products to hospitals in the United States depends in part on our relationships with group purchasing organizations.Many existing and potential customers for our products become members of group purchasing organizations (GPOs). GPOs negotiate pricing arrangements and contracts, sometimes on an exclusive basis, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors and these negotiated prices are made available to a GPO’s affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a GPO, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and if the GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the GPO for the duration of that contractual arrangement. Our failure to enter into or renew contracts with GPOs may cause us to lose market share and could adversely affect our sales. Our long-term success depends, in part, on intellectual property protection. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents, protect trade secrets, obtain licenses to technology owned by third parties and to conduct our business without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others.  The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, can be uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There can be no assurance that if claims of any of our owned or licensed patents are challenged by one or more third parties a court or patent authority ruling on such challenge will determine that our patent claims are valid and enforceable.  If a third party is found to have rights covering products or processes used by us, we could be forced to cease using the products or processes covered by the disputed rights, be subject to significant liabilities to such third party and/or be required to license technologies from such third party. Lawsuits involving patent claims are costly and could affect our results of operations, result in significant expense and divert the attention of managerial and scientific personnel. For more information on challenges to certain of our patents, see “Legal Proceedings” contained elsewhere in this report.In addition, we do not know whether any of our owned or licensed pending patent applications, which have not already been allowed, will result in the issuance of patents or, if patents are issued, whether they will be dominated by third-party patent rights, provide significant proprietary protection or commercial advantage or be circumvented, opposed, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or infringed by others. Our intellectual property rights may be affected in ways that are difficult to anticipate at this time under the provisions of the 18Table of ContentsAmerica Invents Act enacted in 2011.  This law includes a number of important changes to established practices, including transition to a first-to-file system, post-grant review for issued patents, and various procedural changes. The scope of these changes and the lack of experience with their practical implementation may result in uncertainty over the next few years. Also, different countries have different procedures for obtaining patents and patents issued by different countries provide different degrees of protection against the use of a patented invention by others.  There can be no assurance that the issuance to us in one country of a patent covering an invention will be followed by the issuance in other countries of patents covering the same invention or that any judicial interpretation of the validity, enforceability or scope of the claims in a patent issued in one country will be similar to or recognized by the judicial interpretation given to a corresponding patent issued in another country.The United States Patent and Trademark Office and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction.We also rely upon unpatented, proprietary and trade secret technology that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborative partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors.  Despite precautions taken by us, there can be no assurance that these agreements provide meaningful protection, that they will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our proprietary and trade secret technology will not otherwise become known to others or found to be non-proprietary.We receive confidential and proprietary information from collaborators, prospective licensees and other third parties. In addition, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed confidential information of these third parties or our employees’ former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of personnel and resources.Our products may face competition from lower cost generic or follow-on products. Manufacturers of generic drugs are seeking to compete with our drugs and present a significant challenge to us. Those manufacturers may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of our patents in court, requiring us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation.  If any of our owned or licensed patents are infringed or challenged, we may not be successful in enforcing or defending those intellectual property rights and, as a result, may not be able to develop or market the relevant product exclusively, which would have a material adverse effect on our sales from that product. In addition, manufacturers of innovative drugs as well as generic drug manufacturers may be able to design around our owned or licensed patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. For more information concerning certain pending proceedings relating to our intellectual property rights, see “Legal Proceedings” contained elsewhere in this report. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, or upon the “at-risk” launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a manufacturer of a generic version of one of our products, we can quickly lose a significant portion of our sales of that product. In addition, if generic versions of our competitors’ branded products lose their market exclusivity, our patented products may face increased competition for our products. Our business operates in an extremely competitive environment. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in which we operate are highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our present and potential competitors include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms, including:•Hematology and Oncology: Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers-Squibb, Eisai, Gilead, Johnson & Johnson, Novartis, Pharmacyclics, Roche/Genentech, Sanofi and Takeda.•Inflammation and Immunology: AbbVie, Amgen, Biogen Idec, Eisai, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Pfizer and UCB S.A.Many of these companies have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have, enabling them, among other things, to make greater research and development investments. We also experience competition in drug development from universities and other research institutions, and we compete with others in acquiring technology from these sources.  The 19Table of Contentspharmaceutical industry has undergone, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change and we expect competition to intensify as technical advances are made and become more widely known.  The development of products or processes by our competitors with significant advantages over those that we are developing could adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. A decline in general economic conditions would adversely affect our results of operations. Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on third-party payers.  As a result of global credit and financial market conditions, these organizations may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. For information about amounts receivable from the government owned or controlled hospitals in Spain, Italy and Portugal, see our discussion of accounts receivable from those countries in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this report.In addition, due to tightened global credit, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators.  We rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business, including portions of our product manufacturing, clinical development of future collaboration products, conduct of clinical trials and supply of raw materials.  If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business could be adversely affected. We may be required to modify our business practices, pay fines and significant expenses or experience other losses due to governmental investigations or other enforcement activities. We may become subject to litigation or governmental investigations in the United States and foreign jurisdictions that may arise from the conduct of our business. Like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information requests from government authorities and we have been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities.  For more information relating to governmental investigations and other legal proceedings, see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While the ultimate outcome of investigations and legal proceedings are difficult to predict, adverse resolutions or settlements of those matters could result in, among other things:•significant damage awards, fines, penalties or other payments, and administrative remedies, such as exclusion and/or debarment from government programs, or other rulings that preclude us from operating our business in a certain manner;•changes to our business operations to avoid risks associated with such litigation or investigations;•product recalls;•reputational damage and decreased demand for our products; and•expenditure of significant time and resources that would otherwise be available for operating our business.While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all adverse resolutions and settlements of claims and liabilities. It also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all potential risks and liabilities. For more information, see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 20Table of ContentsThe development of new biopharmaceutical products involves a lengthy and complex process and we may be unable to commercialize any of the products we are currently developing. Many of our drug candidates are in the early or mid-stages of research and development and will require the commitment of substantial financial resources, extensive research, development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval prior to being ready for sale.  This process takes many years of effort without any assurance of ultimate success. Our product development efforts with respect to a product candidate may fail for many reasons, including: •the failure of the product candidate in preclinical or clinical studies; •adverse patient reactions to the product candidate or indications of other safety concerns; •insufficient clinical trial data to support the effectiveness or superiority of the product candidate; •our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for development or commercialization activities in a timely and cost-efficient manner; •our failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, the required regulatory approvals for the product candidate, the facilities or the process used to manufacture the product candidate;•changes in the regulatory environment, including pricing and reimbursement, that make development of a new product or of an existing product for a new indication no longer attractive; and•the failure to obtain or maintain satisfactory drug reimbursement rates by governmental or third-party payers.The stem cell products that we are developing through our CCT subsidiary may represent substantial departures from established treatment methods and will compete with a number of traditional products and therapies which are now, or may be in the future, manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies.  Furthermore, public attitudes may be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community.If a product were to fail to be approved or if sales fail to materialize for a newly approved product, we may incur losses related to the write-down of inventory, impairment of property, plant and equipment dedicated to the product or expenses related to restructuring.Disruptions of our manufacturing and distribution operations could significantly interrupt our production and distribution capabilities.We have our own manufacturing facilities for many of our products and we have contracted with third parties to provide other manufacturing, finishing, and packaging services.  Any of those manufacturing processes could be partially or completely disrupted by fire, contamination, natural disaster, terrorist attack, governmental action or military action. A disruption could lead to substantial production delays and the need to establish alternative manufacturing sources for the affected products requiring additional regulatory approvals. In the interim, our finished goods inventories may be insufficient to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis. Further, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur. In all the countries where we sell our products, governmental regulations define standards for manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distributing and storing pharmaceutical products.  Our failure to comply, or the failure of our contract manufacturers and distributors to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on them or us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, disgorgement, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. We have contracted with distributors to distribute REVLIMID®, THALOMID®, VIDAZA®, ABRAXANE®, POMALYST®/IMNOVID® and ISTODAX®.  If our distributors fail to perform and we cannot secure a replacement distributor within a reasonable period of time, our revenue could be adversely affected.  The consolidation of drug wholesalers and other wholesaler actions could increase competitive and pricing pressures. We sell our pharmaceutical products in the United States primarily through wholesale distributors and contracted pharmacies. These wholesale customers comprise a significant part of our distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation. As a result, a smaller number of large wholesale distributors and pharmacy chains control a significant share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and pharmacy chains will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. In addition, wholesalers may apply pricing pressure through fee-for-service arrangements and their purchases may exceed customer demand, resulting in increased returns or reduced wholesaler purchases in later periods.21Table of ContentsRisks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors or collaborators could adversely affect our business or reputation. We cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors or collaborators that violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including employment, anti-corruption, environmental, competition and privacy laws.  Such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and injunctive penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. The integration of acquired businesses may present significant challenges to us. We may face significant challenges in effectively integrating entities and businesses that we acquire and we may not realize the benefits anticipated from such acquisitions.  Achieving the anticipated benefits of our acquired businesses will depend in part upon whether we can integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner.  Our integration of acquired businesses involves a number of risks, including: •demands on management related to the increase in our size after the acquisition;•the diversion of management’s attention from daily operations to the integration of acquired businesses and personnel;•higher than anticipated integration costs;•failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings;•difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees;•difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and•difficulties in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards and controls, including internal control over financial reporting, and related procedures and policies.We may not be able to continue to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific, manufacturing and commercial talent. The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific, manufacturing and commercial personnel, and competition for these types of personnel is intense. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract or retain skilled personnel or that the costs of doing so will not materially increase. Risks associated with using hazardous materials in our business could subject us to significant liability. We use certain hazardous materials in our research, development, manufacturing and other business activities.  If an accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for remediation obligations, damages and fines that could exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources.  Additionally, the cost of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations may increase in the future, requiring us to expend more financial resources either in compliance or in purchasing supplemental insurance coverage. Product liability claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Product liability claims could result in significant damage awards or settlements. Such claims can also be accompanied by consumer fraud claims or claims by third-party payers seeking reimbursement of the cost of our products.  In addition, adverse determinations or settlements of product liability claims may result in suspension or withdrawal of a product marketing authorization or changes to our product labeling, including restrictions on therapeutic indications, inclusion of new contraindications, warnings or precautions. Although we purchase product liability coverage from third-party carriers, it is increasingly difficult and costly to obtain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recover under any insurance policy or that such coverage will be adequate to fully cover all risks or damage awards or settlements. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits or ultimate outcome, are costly, divert management attention, may harm our reputation and can impact the demand for our products.22Table of ContentsChanges in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions and our domestic and international tax liabilities are largely dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions.  Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate.  These factors include interpretations of existing tax laws, the accounting for stock options and other share-based compensation, changes in tax laws and rates, future levels of research and development spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, the outcome of examinations by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, the accuracy of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits and realization of deferred tax assets and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings.  The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above-mentioned factors and others could have a material impact on our results of operations. Currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our revenue growth, increase our costs and cause our profitability to decline. We collect and pay a substantial portion of our sales and expenditures in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results. We utilize foreign currency forward contracts and option contracts, which are derivative instruments, to manage foreign currency risk.  We use these derivative instruments to hedge certain forecasted transactions, manage exchange rate volatility in the translation of foreign earnings and reduce exposures to foreign currency fluctuations of certain balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies.  The use of these derivative instruments is intended to mitigate a portion of the exposure of these risks with the intent to reduce our risk or cost, but generally would not fully offset any change in operating results as a consequence of fluctuations in foreign currencies.  Any significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”  contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may experience an adverse market reaction if we are unable to meet our financial reporting obligations. As we continue to expand at a rapid pace, the development of new and/or improved automated systems will remain an ongoing priority.  During this expansion period, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements in our financial reporting.  Such misstatements may result in litigation and/or negative publicity and possibly cause an adverse market reaction that may negatively impact our growth plans and the value of our common stock. Impairment charges or write downs in our books and changes in accounting standards could have a significant adverse effect on our  results of operations and financial condition.New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations could result in changes to the recognition of income and expense that may materially and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, the value allocated to certain of our assets could be substantially impaired due to a number of factors beyond our control. Also, if any of our strategic equity investments decline in value, we may be required to write down such investment.The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market for our shares of common stock may fluctuate significantly.  The following key factors may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock:•results of our clinical trials or adverse events associated with our marketed products;•fluctuations in our commercial and operating results;•announcements of technical or product developments by us or our competitors;•market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular;•changes in laws and governmental regulations, including changes in tax, healthcare, environmental, competition and patent laws;•new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings;•public announcements regarding medical advances in the treatment of the disease states that we are targeting;23Table of Contents•patent or proprietary rights developments;•changes in pricing and third-party reimbursement policies for our products;•the outcome of litigation involving our products, processes or intellectual property;•the existence and outcome of governmental investigations and proceedings;•regulatory actions that may impact our products or potential products;•disruptions in our manufacturing processes or supply chain;•failure of our collaboration partners to successfully develop potential drug candidates;•competition; and•investor reaction to announcements regarding business or product acquisitions.In addition, a market downturn in general and/or in the biopharmaceutical sector in particular, may adversely affect the market price of our securities, which may not necessarily reflect the actual or perceived value of our company. Our business would be adversely affected if we are unable to service our debt obligations. We have incurred various forms of indebtedness, including senior notes, commercial paper and a senior unsecured credit facility.  Our ability to pay interest and principal amounts when due, comply with debt covenants or repurchase the senior notes if a change of control occurs, will depend upon, among other things, continued commercial success of our products and other factors that affect our future financial and operating performance, including prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and regulatory factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service the debt service requirements under our debt instruments, we may be forced to take remedial actions such as:•restructuring or refinancing our debt;•seeking additional debt or equity capital;•reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, including research and development expenditures; or•selling assets, businesses, products or other potential revenue streams.Such measures might not be successful and might not enable us to service our debt obligations. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms, if at all. A breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business.We rely upon our information technology systems and infrastructure for our business. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown and unauthorized intrusion.  Similarly, data privacy breaches by those who access our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. There can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our data and information technology systems will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.Third parties might illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards. A patient who receives a counterfeit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under our brand name. In addition, thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants or while in-transit, which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business.24Table of ContentsWe have certain charter and by-law provisions that may deter a third-party from acquiring us and may impede the stockholders’ ability to remove and replace our management or board of directors. Our board of directors has the authority to issue, at any time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5.0 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, privileges and preferences of those shares.  An issuance of preferred stock could discourage a third-party from acquiring a majority of our outstanding voting stock.  Additionally, our by-laws contain provisions intended to strengthen the board’s position in the event of a hostile takeover attempt.  These provisions could impede the stockholders’ ability to remove and replace our management and/or board of directors.  Furthermore, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law, which may also dissuade a potential acquirer of our common stock. In addition to the risks relating to our common stock, holders of our CVRs are subject to additional risks. On October 15, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Abraxis BioScience, Inc. (Abraxis) and in connection with our acquisition, Contingent Value Rights (CVRs) were issued entitling each holder of a CVR to a  pro rata  portion of certain milestone and net sales payments if certain specified conditions are satisfied. In addition to the risks relating to our common stock, CVR holders are subject to additional risks, including:•an active public market for the CVRs may not continue to exist or the CVRs may trade at low volumes, both of which could have an adverse effect on the market price, if any, of the CVRs;•if the clinical approval milestones or net sales targets specified in the CVR Agreement are not achieved for any reason within the time periods specified therein, no payment will be made under the CVRs and the CVRs will expire valueless;•since the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the CVRs is unclear, any part of a CVR payment could be treated as ordinary income and the tax thereon may be required to be paid prior to the receipt of the CVR payment;•any payments in respect of the CVRs are subordinated to the right of payment of certain of our other indebtedness;•we may under certain circumstances redeem the CVRs; and•upon expiration of our obligations under the CVR Agreement to continue to commercialize ABRAXANE® or any of the other Abraxis pipeline products, we may discontinue such efforts, which would have an adverse effect on the value, if any, of the CVRs.25Table of ContentsITEM 1B