ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.        

        In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you
should carefully consider the factors discussed below before deciding to invest in any of our securities. These risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

 Our business is dependent on North American natural gas, the prices of which are subject to volatility.  

        Natural gas is the principal raw material used to produce nitrogen fertilizers. We use natural gas both as a chemical feedstock and as
a fuel to produce ammonia, urea, UAN, AN and other nitrogen products. Because most of our nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities are located in the United States and Canada, North American
natural gas comprises a significant portion of the total production cost of our nitrogen fertilizers. 

        The
price of natural gas in North America has been volatile in recent years. During 2012, the average daily closing price at the Henry Hub, the most heavily-traded natural gas pricing
basis in North America, reached a low of $1.84 per MMBtu on April 20, 2012 and a high of $3.77 per MMBtu on November 27, 2012. During the three year period ended December 31,
2012, the average daily closing price at the Henry Hub reached a high of $7.51 per MMBtu on January 8, 2010 and a low of $1.84 per MMBtu on April 20, 2012. 


        Changes
in the supply of and demand for natural gas can lead to periods of high natural gas prices. If this were to occur during a period of low fertilizer selling prices, it could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

        Over
the last several years, North American natural gas prices have declined in response to increased supply from the development of production from shale gas formations. Future
production of natural gas from shale gas formations could be reduced by regulatory changes that restrict drilling or increase its cost for other reasons. If this were to occur, natural gas prices
could rise, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

 Our business is cyclical, resulting in periods of industry oversupply during which our results of operations tend to be negatively impacted.  

        Historically, selling prices for our products have fluctuated in response to periodic changes in supply and demand conditions. Demand
is affected by planted acreage and application rates, driven by population growth, changes in dietary habits, non-food usage of crops such as the production of ethanol and other biofuels,
among other things. Supply is affected by available capacity and operating rates, raw material costs and availability, government policies and global trade. 


        Periods
of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in investment in production capacity, which may cause supply to exceed demand and
selling prices and capacity utilization to decline. Future growth in demand for fertilizer may not be sufficient to absorb excess industry capacity. 

        During
periods of industry oversupply, our results of operations tend to be affected negatively as the price at which we sell our products typically declines, resulting in possible
reduced profit margins, write-downs in the value of our inventory and temporary or permanent curtailments of production. 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

 Our products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other fertilizer producers.  


        We are subject to intense price competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Fertilizers are global commodities, with little or
no product differentiation, and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product quality. We compete with a
number of domestic and foreign producers, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. 

        Some
of these competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from fertilizer sales, which make them less vulnerable to industry downturns and better
positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. Our competitive position could suffer to the extent we
are not able to expand our own resources either through investments in new or existing operations or through acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. 

        China,
the world's largest producer and consumer of fertilizers, is expected to continue expanding its fertilizer production capability. If Chinese policy encourages exports, this
expected increase in capacity could adversely affect the balance between global supply and demand and may put downward pressure on global fertilizer prices, which could adversely affect our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

        We
may face increased competition from Russian and Ukrainian urea and fertilizer grade ammonium nitrate. Almost all urea imports from Russia and Ukraine are currently subject to
antidumping duty orders that impose duties of approximately 65 percent on urea imported into the United States from these two countries. Russia and Ukraine currently have considerable capacity
to produce urea and are among the world's largest urea exporters. In Russia, the price for natural gas used for industrial production continues to be set by the government on a non-market
basis. Russian nitrogen fertilizer producers benefit from these government-controlled natural gas prices, encouraging inefficient urea production and high volumes of exports. In Ukraine, we believe
that the government intervenes with respect to natural gas prices available to fertilizer producers so as to permit continued exports. The antidumping orders have been in place since 1987, and there
has been very little urea imported into the United States from Russia or Ukraine since that time. The U.S. Department of Commerce regularly reviews the U.S. sales of urea made by Russian exporters. In
October 2011, the U.S. Department of Commerce completed a review of U.S. sales made by the Russian exporter EuroChem and concluded that duties of approximately one percent should be imposed. This low
rate of duty resulted in a marked increase in exports of Russian urea to the United States. In October 2012, the Commerce Department completed another review of EuroChem's sales, and reduced to zero
the duty applied to EuroChem's U.S. urea imports. This may result in more Russian urea exports to the United States. 


        In
2011, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. International Trade Commission conducted the third "sunset review" of the urea antidumping orders and determined that they should
remain in effect for another five years. The next sunset review of those orders will not be initiated until late 2016. 

        Russia
is the world's largest ammonium nitrate producer and exporter. As in the case of urea, Russian ammonium nitrate producers benefit from non-market pricing of natural
gas. Fertilizer grade ammonium nitrate from Russia is subject to an antidumping duty order, which currently imposes antidumping duties of almost 254 percent on Russian ammonium nitrate imports
into the United States. In May 2011, this order replaced a longstanding "suspension agreement" which had imposed volume and pricing restrictions on Russian ammonium nitrate imports. In 2011, the U.S.
Department of Commerce and the U.S. International Trade Commission completed the second "sunset review" of the 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

Russian
ammonium nitrate antidumping order and concluded that it will remain in effect for at least another five years. Russian producers of ammonium nitrate are likely to participate in legal
processes through which they may reduce the applicable antidumping duty rate applicable to their U.S. imports and, if they are successful, there may be an increase in U.S. imports of unfairly priced
Russian ammonium nitrate. Further, one Russian producer is currently seeking permission to import an ammonium nitrate product outside the reach of the antidumping order. If successful, this effort
would likely result in a significant increase in U.S. imports of this Russian ammonium nitrate product. 


        Fertilizer
grade ammonium nitrate from Ukraine is also subject to an antidumping duty order under which imports of this product are currently subject to a duty of over
156 percent. That order is currently being reviewed and a decision as to whether the order will remain in place for an additional five years is expected to be issued by May, 2013. If the order
is revoked, we are likely to experience a significant increase in U.S. imports of unfairly priced Ukrainian ammonium nitrate. 

 A decline in U.S. agricultural production or limitations on the use of our products for agricultural purposes could materially adversely affect the market for our products.  


        Conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry significantly impact our operating results. The U.S. agricultural industry can be affected
by a number of factors, including weather patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, domestic and international demand for U.S. agricultural products and U.S.
and foreign policies regarding trade in agricultural products. These factors are outside of our control. 

        State
and federal governmental policies, including farm and biofuel subsidies and commodity support programs, as well as the prices of fertilizer products, may also directly or
indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of fertilizers for particular agricultural applications. In recent years, for example, ethanol production in the
United States has increased significantly due, in part, to federal legislation mandating greater use of renewable fuels. This increase in ethanol production has led to an increase in the amount of
corn grown in the United States and to increased fertilizer usage on both corn and other crops that have also benefited from improved farm economics. While the current Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS)
encourages continued high levels of corn-based ethanol production, a continuing "food versus fuel" debate and other factors have resulted in calls to allow increased ethanol imports and
eliminate the fuel mandate, either of which could have an adverse effect on corn-based ethanol production, planted corn acreage and fertilizer demand. Developments in crop technology, such
as nitrogen fixation, the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants can assimilate, could also reduce the use of chemical fertilizers and adversely affect the demand for our
products. In addition, from time to time various state legislatures have considered limitations on the use and application of chemical fertilizers due to concerns about the impact of these products on
the environment. 

 Our transportation and distribution activities rely on third party providers, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties beyond our control that may adversely affect our
operations.  

        We rely on railroad, trucking, pipeline, river barge and ocean vessel companies to transport raw materials to our manufacturing
facilities, to coordinate and deliver finished products to our distribution system and to ship finished products to our customers. We also lease rail cars in order to ship raw materials and finished
products. These transportation operations, equipment and services are subject to various hazards, including adverse operating conditions on the inland waterway system, extreme weather conditions,
system failures, work stoppages, delays, accidents such as spills and derailments and other accidents and other operating hazards. 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

        These
transportation operations, equipment and services are also subject to environmental, safety, and regulatory oversight. Due to concerns related to accidents, terrorism or the
potential use of fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations affecting the transportation of raw materials or finished products. 

        If
shipping of our products is delayed or we are unable to obtain raw materials as a result of these transportation companies' failure to operate properly, or if new and more stringent
regulatory requirements are implemented affecting transportation operations or equipment, or if there are significant increases in the cost of these services or equipment, our revenues and cost of
operations could be adversely affected. In addition, increases in our transportation costs, or changes in such costs relative to transportation costs incurred by our competitors, could have an adverse
effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 

        The
railroad industry continues various efforts to limit the railroads' potential liability stemming from the transportation of Toxic Inhalation Hazard (TIH) materials, such as the
anhydrous ammonia we transport to and from our manufacturing and distribution facilities. These efforts by the railroads include (i) requesting that the Surface Transportation Board, or STB,
issue a policy statement finding that it is reasonable for a railroad to require a shipper to indemnify the railroads and carry insurance for all liability above a certain amount arising from the
transportation of TIH materials; (ii) requesting that the STB approve an increase in the maximum reasonable rates that a railroad can charge for the transportation of TIH materials (including
the recovery of the cost to implement the mandatory anti-collision train control system referred to as Positive Train Control); (iii) lobbying for new legislation or regulations
that would limit or eliminate the railroads' common carrier obligation to
transport TIH materials; and (iv) limit the liability or railroads in Canada when transporting TIH materials. If the railroads were to succeed in one or more of these initiatives, it could
materially and adversely affect our operating expenses and potentially our ability to transport anhydrous ammonia and increase our liability for releases of our anhydrous ammonia while in the care,
custody and control of the railroads. New regulations also could be implemented affecting the equipment used to ship our raw materials or finished products. 

 Difficulties in the implementation of our new enterprise resource planning system or cyber security risks could result in disruptions in business operations and adverse
operating results.  

        Since the Terra acquisition, CF Industries continued to utilize legacy Terra's separate information management systems to process
transactions involving business operations of the legacy Terra plants. In the first quarter of 2013, we consolidated all business processes for the combined companies under a new, single enterprise
resource planning (ERP) system utilizing software provided by SAP. This company-wide system aligns business processes and procedures, institutes more efficient transaction processing and
improves access to and consistency of information to enable standardization of business activities. The implementation of an ERP system across the combined organization entails certain risks. If we do
not complete the implementation of the system successfully, or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

        As
we continue to increase our dependence on information technologies to conduct our operations, the risks associated with cyber security also increase. We rely on management information
systems, among other things, to manage our accounting, manufacturing, supply chain and financial functions. This risk not only applies to us, but also to third parties on whose systems we place
significant reliance for the conduct of our business. We have implemented security procedures and measures in order to protect our information from being vulnerable to theft, loss, damage or
interruption from a number of potential sources or events. We believe these measures and procedures 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

are
appropriate. However, we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate, prevent, or recover from rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. Compromises to our information
systems could have severe financial and other business implications. 

 Adverse weather conditions may decrease demand for our fertilizer products, increase the cost of natural gas or materially disrupt our operations.  


        Weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing seasons may cause agricultural
customers to use different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the forms that we sell or may impede farmers from applying our fertilizers until the following growing
season, resulting in lower demand for our products. 

        Adverse
weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which could
lower the income of growers and impair their ability to purchase fertilizer from our customers. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related
shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. 

        Weather
conditions or, in certain cases, weather forecasts, also can affect the price of natural gas, the principal raw material used to make our nitrogen based fertilizers. Colder than
normal winters and warmer than normal summers increase the demand for natural gas for residential and industrial use. In addition, hurricanes affecting the Gulf of Mexico coastal states can impact the
supply of natural gas and cause prices to rise. 

 We may not be able to complete our recently announced capacity expansion projects on schedule as planned, on budget or at all due to a number of factors, many of which are
beyond our control.  

        On November 1, 2012, we announced that we will construct new ammonia and urea/UAN plants at our complex in Donaldsonville,
Louisiana, and new ammonia and urea units at our complex in Port Neal, Iowa. Our Board of Directors has authorized expenditures of $3.8 billion for the projects. The design, development,
construction and start-up of the new plants are subject to a number of risks, any of which could prevent us from completing the projects on schedule as planned and on budget or at all,
including cost overruns, performance of third parties, permitting matters, adverse weather, defects in materials and workmanship, labor and raw material shortages, transportation constraints,
engineering and construction change orders, and other unforeseen difficulties. 


        The
Donaldsonville and Port Neal expansion projects are dependent on the availability and performance of the engineering firms, construction firms, equipment suppliers, transportation
providers and other vendors necessary to build the new units on a timely basis and on acceptable economic terms. Although we have entered into contracts with an affiliate of ThyssenKrupp Uhde for
engineering
and procurement services for each of the projects and we have procured bids from several construction firms, we have not yet entered into definitive agreements for construction services for either
project. If ThyssenKrupp Uhde or any of the other third parties fails to perform as we expect, our ability to meet our expansion goals would be affected. 


        We
must also obtain numerous regulatory approvals and permits in order to construct and operate the additional plants. These requirements may not be satisfied in a timely manner or at
all. Our financial exposure to permitting risks may be exacerbated because we have committed to purchase certain equipment that will result in substantial expenditures prior to obtaining all permits
necessary to operate the units. In the event that we ultimately fail to obtain all necessary permits, we would be forced to abandon the projects and lose the benefit of any construction costs already
incurred. In addition, federal and state governmental requirements may increase our costs substantially, which could 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 


        Our
expansion plans may also result in other unanticipated adverse consequences, such as the diversion of management's attention from our existing plants and businesses and other
opportunities. 

 Other expansions of our business may result in unanticipated adverse consequences.  

        We routinely consider possible expansions of our business, both domestically and in foreign locations. Major investments in our
business, including as a result of acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or other major investments require significant managerial resources, which may be diverted from our other activities and
may impair the operation of our businesses. The risks of any expansion of our business through investments, acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures are increased due to the significant capital
and other resources that we may have to commit to any such expansion, which may not be recoverable if the expansion initiative to which they were devoted is ultimately not implemented. As a result of
these and other factors, including general economic risk, we may not be able to realize our projected returns from any future acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or other major investments. 

 We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws, regulations and permitting requirements, as well as potential environmental liabilities, which may
require us to make substantial expenditures.  

        We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom
and the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, including laws and regulations relating to land reclamation; the generation, treatment, storage, disposal and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; the
cleanup of hazardous substance releases; and the demolition of existing plant sites upon permanent closure. In the United States, these laws include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, RCRA,
CERCLA, the Toxic Substances Control Act and various other federal, state, provincial, local and international statutes. 


        As
a fertilizer company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, our business is inherently subject to spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances into the
environment. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous
substances into the environment. Given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are incurring currently, and are likely to incur periodically in the future, liabilities under CERCLA and other
environmental cleanup laws at our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. The costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may
be required to conduct or finance may be material. Additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or
release of hazardous substances into the environment. 

        Violations
of environmental and health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit
revocations and facility shutdowns. Environmental and health and safety laws change rapidly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we have not always been and may not always
be in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Additionally, future environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or reinterpretation of current laws
and regulations may require us to make substantial expenditures. Additionally, our costs to comply with, or any liabilities under, these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

23






<A
NAME="page_dm16601_1_24"> 









































Table of Contents 

<A
NAME="dm16601_cf_industries_holdings,_inc."> 
    CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.        

        From time to time, our production of anhydrous ammonia has resulted in accidental releases that have temporarily disrupted our manufacturing operations and
resulted in liability for administrative penalties and claims for personal injury. To date, our costs to resolve these liabilities have not been material.
However, we could incur significant costs if our liability coverage is not sufficient to pay for all or a large part of any judgments against us, or if our insurance carrier refuses coverage for these
losses. 

        We
may be impacted by the development of Federal and State numeric nutrient criteria regulation. On August 18, 2009, the EPA entered into a consent decree with certain
environmental groups with respect to the promulgation of numeric criteria for nitrogen and phosphorous in surface waters in Florida. The consent decree was approved by a Federal district court judge
on November 16, 2009. The EPA adopted final numeric nutrient criteria for Florida lakes and inland flowing waters on November 14, 2010. On February 18, 2012, the Court upheld
parts of the numeric nutrient criteria regulation, but found that the EPA had not adequately justified the criteria for streams and therefore concluded that the adoption of such criteria was arbitrary
and capricious. The Court ordered the EPA to issue proposed or final numeric nutrient criteria for streams by May 21, 2012 (subject to the EPA seeking an extension of such time period pursuant
to the terms of the 2009 consent decree). Subsequently, the Court granted the EPA's motion to allow the EPA to propose numeric nutrient criteria for streams by November 30, 2012 and to finalize
such criteria by August 31, 2013. 

        In
December 2011, the State of Florida proposed its own numeric nutrient criteria for surface waters. The nitrogen and phosphorous criteria in the proposed rule are substantially
identical to the federal rule, but the state proposal includes biological verification as a component of the criteria and adopts existing nutrient Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDL) as applicable
numeric criteria. The impact of these modifications could be to provide more flexibility with respect to nitrogen and phosphorous limits in wastewater discharge permits so long as such discharges do
not impair the biological health of receiving water bodies. Environmental groups filed a challenge to the proposed state rule, but the rule was upheld by an administrative law judge on June 8,
2012 and became final. An appeal of the administrative decision upholding the rule is now pending before a Florida appellate court. 

        On
November 30, 2012, the EPA approved Florida's rule. However, because the EPA identified what it considered to be gaps in the scope of the waters covered by Florida's rule and
potential legal issues that might bar the Florida rule from going into effect, the EPA, pursuant to the Court order described above, has again proposed numeric nutrient criteria for Florida streams.
There is substantial uncertainty as to whether this rule will be withdrawn before it is finalized or, if a rule is finalized, as to the scope of Florida inland flowing waters that will be covered by
the EPA regulation. 

        Moreover,
notwithstanding the EPA's approval of the Florida rule, the federal criteria for lakes and inland waters previously upheld by the Court (excluding the criteria found to be
arbitrary and capricious) became effective on January 6, 2013. The EPA has proposed to stay the effective date of these criteria in light of the on-going developments with the
Florida regulation. 

        The
2009 consent decree also requires the EPA to develop numeric nutrient criteria for Florida coastal and estuarine waters. The numeric criteria adopted by the State of Florida and
approved by the EPA includes numeric criteria for some coastal and estuarine waters, but, as with streams, EPA has raised issues regarding the scope of coverage of Florida's regulation. Accordingly,
on November 30, 2012, the EPA proposed numeric nutrient criteria for Florida coastal and estuarine waters. The EPA must finalize these criteria by September 30, 2013 unless future
developments allow the EPA to withdraw the rule. 

24




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

        Depending
on the developments discussed herein, federal or state numeric nutrient water quality criteria for Florida waters could result in substantially more stringent nitrogen and
phosphorous limits in wastewater discharge permits for our mining, manufacturing and distribution operations in Florida. More stringent limits on wastewater discharge permits could increase our costs
and limit our operations and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

 Our operations are dependent on numerous required permits, approvals and meeting financial assurance requirements from governmental authorities.  

        We hold numerous environmental, mining and other governmental permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities.
Expansion of our operations is dependent upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material
permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility and on our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

        In
certain cases, as a condition to procure such permits and approvals or as a condition to maintain existing approvals, we may be required to comply with regulatory financial assurance
requirements. The purpose of these requirements is to assure local, state or federal government agencies that we will have sufficient funds available for the ultimate closure, post-closure
care and reclamation at our facilities. For example, we have funded an escrow account for the benefit of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) as a means of complying with
Florida's regulations governing financial assurance related to closure and post-closure of phosphogypsum stacks. Also, pursuant to a Consent Decree with the U.S. EPA and the FDEP, we have
funded a trust as a means of complying with similar requirements for closure, post closure and monitoring of the phosphogypsum stack system at our Plant City, Florida phosphate fertilizer complex. 

        Florida
regulations also mandate payment of certain mining taxes based on the quantity of ore mined and are subject to change based on local regulatory approvals. Additional financial
assurance requirements or other increases in local mining regulations and taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 


        Florida
regulations also require phosphate rock mining companies to demonstrate financial responsibility for wetland and other surface water mitigation measures in advance of any mining
activities. If and when we are able to expand our Hardee mining activities to areas not currently permitted, we will be required to demonstrate financial responsibility for wetland and other surface
water mitigation measures in advance of any mining activities. The demonstration of financial responsibility may be provided by passage of financial tests. In the event that we are unable to satisfy
these financial tests, alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements would require us to expend funds for the purchase of bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies or
similar instruments. It is possible that we will not be able to comply with either current or new financial assurance regulations in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

        As
of December 31, 2012, the area permitted by local, state and federal authorities for mining at our Hardee phosphate complex contained approximately 42.2 million tons of
recoverable phosphate rock reserves, which will meet our requirements, at current operating rates, for approximately 12 years. We have initiated the process of applying for authorization and
permits to expand the geographical area in which we can mine at our Hardee property. The expanded geographical area has an estimated 34.7 million tons of recoverable phosphate reserves, which
will allow us to conduct mining operations at 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

our
Hardee property for approximately 10 additional years at current operating rates, assuming we secure the authorization and permits to mine in this area. In Florida, local community participation
has become an important factor in the authorization and permitting process for mining companies. A denial of the authorizations or permits to continue or expand our mining operations at our Hardee
property would prevent us from mining all of our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

        We
have secured the state environmental authorization to increase the capacity of our phosphogypsum stack system at Plant City. With the completion of our "Phase II" expansion
that is currently being constructed, this stack has sufficient capacity to meet our requirements through 2026 at current operating rates and subject to regular renewals of our operating permits.
Including further expansion phases, the estimated stack system capacity is expected to meet our requirements until 2040 at current operating rates and is subject to securing the corresponding
operating permits. This time frame is approximately six years beyond our current estimate of available phosphate rock reserves at our Hardee mine. A decision by the state or federal authorities to
deny a renewal of our current permits or to deny operating permits for the expansion of our stack system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows. 

 Future regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the jurisdictions in which we operate could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.  

        We are subject to greenhouse gas (GHG) regulations in the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States. There are substantial
uncertainties as to the nature, stringency and timing of any future GHG regulations. More stringent GHG limitations, if they are enacted, are likely to have significant impacts on the fertilizer
industry due to the fact that our production facilities emit GHGs such as carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide. Regulation of GHGs may require us to make changes in our operating activities that would
increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency, limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our costs for or limit the availability of energy, raw
materials or transportation, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, to the extent that GHG restrictions are not
imposed in countries where our competitors operate or are less stringent than in the United States or Canada, our competitors may have cost or other competitive advantages over us. 

 Our inability to predict future seasonal fertilizer demand accurately could result in excess inventory, potentially at costs in excess of market value, or product shortages.
Our operating results fluctuate due to seasonality.  

        The fertilizer business is seasonal. The degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to
conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. The strongest demand for our products occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall
harvest. We and our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is
greatest for ammonia due to the short application season and the limited ability of our customers and their customers to store significant quantities of this product. The seasonality of fertilizer
demand results in our sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and our working capital requirements being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. 


        If
seasonal demand is less than we expect, we may be left with excess inventory that will have to be stored (in which case our results of operations will be negatively affected by any
related increased storage costs) or liquidated (in which case the selling price may be below our production, procurement and storage costs). The risks associated with excess inventory and product
shortages are particularly 

26




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

acute
with respect to our nitrogen fertilizer business because of the volatility of natural gas and nitrogen fertilizer prices and the relatively brief periods during which farmers can apply nitrogen
fertilizers. If prices rapidly decrease, we may be subject to inventory write-downs, causing an adverse change in operating results. 

 A change in the volume of products that our customers purchase on a forward basis could increase our exposure to fluctuations in our profit margins and materially adversely
affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

        We offer our customers the opportunity to purchase product on a forward basis at prices and delivery dates we propose. This improves
our liquidity due to the cash payments received from customers in advance of shipment of the product and allows us to improve our production scheduling and planning and the utilization of our
manufacturing assets. 

        Under
our forward sales programs, customers generally make an initial cash down payment at the time of order and pay the remaining portion of the contract sales value in advance of the
shipment date, thereby significantly increasing our liquidity. Any cash payments received in advance from customers in connection with forward sales are reflected on our balance sheet as a current
liability until the related orders are shipped, which can take up to several months. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, our current liability for customer advances related to unshipped orders
equaled approximately 17% and 21%, respectively, of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. 

        We
believe the ability to purchase product on a forward basis is most appealing to our customers during periods of generally increasing prices for nitrogen fertilizers. Our customers may
be less willing or even unwilling to purchase products on a forward basis during periods of generally decreasing or stable prices or during periods of relatively high fertilizer prices due to the
expectation of lower prices in the future or limited capital resources. In periods of rising fertilizer prices, selling our nitrogen fertilizers on a forward basis may result in lower profit margins
than if we had not sold fertilizer on a forward basis. Conversely, in periods of declining fertilizer prices, selling our nitrogen fertilizers on a forward basis may result in higher profit margins
than if we had not sold fertilizer on a forward basis. In addition, fixing the selling prices of our products, often months in advance of their ultimate delivery to customers, typically causes our
reported selling prices and margins to differ from spot market prices and margins available at the time of shipment. 

        We
also sell phosphate products on a forward basis. In 2012, forward sales of phosphate fertilizer products represented approximately 23% of our phosphate fertilizer volume. Unlike our
nitrogen fertilizer products where we have the opportunity to fix or cap the cost of natural gas, we typically are
unable to do the same for the cost of phosphate raw materials, such as sulfur and ammonia, which are among the largest components of our phosphate fertilizer costs. As a result, we are typically
exposed to margin risk on phosphate products sold on a forward basis. 

 Our business is subject to risks involving derivatives, including the risk that our hedging activities might not prevent losses.  

        We manage the risk of changes in commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates using derivative instruments. Our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes involving commodity price volatility, adverse correlation of commodity prices, or market liquidity
issues. 

        In
order to manage financial exposure to commodity price and market fluctuations, we often utilize natural gas derivatives to hedge our exposure to the price volatility of natural gas,
the principal raw material used in the production of nitrogen based fertilizers. We have used fixed-price, forward, 

27




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

physical
purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. In order to manage our exposure to
changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we use foreign currency derivatives, primarily forward exchange contracts. Hedging arrangements are imperfect and unhedged risks will always exist. 


        Our
use of derivatives can result in volatility in reported earnings due to the unrealized mark-to-market adjustments that occur from changes in the value of the
derivatives that do not qualify for or for which we do not apply hedge accounting. To the extent that our derivative positions lose value, we may be required to post collateral with our
counterparties, thereby negatively impacting our liquidity. 

        In
addition, our hedging activities may themselves give rise to various risks that could adversely affect us. For example, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk when our derivatives
are in a net asset position. The counterparties to our derivatives are either large oil and gas companies or large financial institutions. We monitor the derivative portfolio and credit quality of our
counterparties and adjust the level of activity we conduct with individual counterparties as necessary. We also manage the credit risk through the use of multiple counterparties, established credit
limits, cash collateral requirements and
master netting arrangements. However, our liquidity could be negatively impacted by a counterparty default on derivative settlements. 

 Our operations and the production and handling of our products involve significant risks and hazards. We are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks
incident to our business. Therefore, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses.  

        Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the manufacturing, transportation, storage and distribution of chemical fertilizers,
including ammonia, which is highly toxic and corrosive. These hazards include: explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other
transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and ruptures involving storage tanks, pipelines and rail cars; spills, discharges and releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; deliberate
sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; labor difficulties and other risks. Some of these hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or
destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. 


        We
maintain property, business interruption, casualty and liability insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. If
we were to incur significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are
subject to various self-retentions, deductibles and limits under these insurance policies. The policies also contain exclusions and conditions that could have a material adverse impact on
our ability to receive indemnification thereunder. Our policies are generally renewed annually. As a result of market conditions, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for certain
insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. In addition, significantly increased
costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. 

 We are reliant on a limited number of key facilities.  

        Our nitrogen fertilizer operations are concentrated in seven separate nitrogen complexes, the largest of which is the Donaldsonville
complex which represents approximately 40% of the Company's ammonia production capacity. Our phosphate fertilizer operations are dependent on our phosphate 

28




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

mine
and associated beneficiation plant in Hardee County, Florida; our phosphate fertilizer complex in Plant City, Florida; and our ammonia terminal in Tampa, Florida. The suspension of operations at
any of these key facilities could adversely affect our ability to produce our products and fulfill our commitments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, a number of
our key facilities, including the Donaldsonville complex and all of our phosphate operations, are located in regions of the United States that experience a relatively high level of hurricane activity.
Such storms, depending on their severity and location, have the potential not only to damage our facilities and disrupt our operations, but also to adversely affect the shipping and distribution of
our products and the supply and price of natural gas and sulfur in the Gulf of Mexico region. 

 We are exposed to risks associated with our joint ventures.  

        We participate in joint ventures including CFL (which owns our facility in Medicine Hat, Alberta), Point Lisas (which owns a facility
in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago), GrowHow (which owns facilities in Billingham and Ince, United Kingdom) and Keytrade (a global fertilizer trading company headquartered near Zurich,
Switzerland). Our joint venture partners may share a measure of control over the operations of our joint ventures. As a result, our investments in joint ventures involve risks that are different from
the risks involved in owning facilities and operations independently. These risks include the possibility that our joint ventures or our partners: have economic or business interests or goals that are
or become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; are in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives; subject the joint venture to liabilities
exceeding those contemplated; take actions that reduce our return on investment; or take actions that harm our reputation or restrict our ability to run our business. 


        In
addition, we may become involved in disputes with our joint venture partners, which could lead to impasses or situations that could harm the joint venture, which could reduce our
revenues or increase our costs. 

 Acts of terrorism and regulations to combat terrorism could negatively affect our business.  

        Like other companies with major industrial facilities, our plants and ancillary facilities may be targets of terrorist activities. Many
of these plants and facilities store significant quantities of ammonia and other materials that can be dangerous if mishandled. Any damage to infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation,
transmission and distribution facilities, or
injury to employees, who could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism, may affect our operations. Any disruption of our ability to produce or distribute our products could
result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows. 

        In
addition, due to concerns related to terrorism or the potential use of certain fertilizers as explosives, local, state, federal and foreign governments could implement new regulations
impacting the security of our plants, terminals and warehouses or the transportation and use of fertilizers. These regulations could result in higher operating costs or limitations on the sale of our
products and could result in significant unanticipated costs, lower revenues and reduced profit margins. We manufacture and sell certain nitrogen fertilizers that can be used as explosives. It is
possible that the U.S. or foreign governments could impose additional limitations on the use, sale or distribution of nitrogen fertilizers, thereby limiting our ability to manufacture or sell those
products, or that such illicit use of our products could result in liability for the Company. 

29




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

 Our operations and those of our joint ventures are dependent upon raw materials provided by third parties and an increase in the price or any delay or interruption in the
delivery of these raw materials may adversely affect our business.  

        We and our joint ventures use natural gas, ammonia and sulfur as raw materials in the manufacture of fertilizers. We purchase these raw
materials from third-party suppliers. Prices for these raw materials can fluctuate significantly due to changes in supply and demand. We may not be able to pass along to our customers increases in the
costs of raw materials, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. These products are transported by barge, truck, rail or pipeline to our facilities and those of our joint ventures
by third-party transportation providers or through the use of facilities owned by third parties. Any delays or interruptions in the delivery of these key raw materials, including those caused by
capacity constraints; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and ruptures
involving pipelines; deliberate sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; or labor difficulties, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

 We are subject to risks associated with international operations.  

        Our international business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including difficulties and costs associated with
complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; currency fluctuations; tax rates that may exceed those in the United States;
earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements; and the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions. During 2012, we derived approximately 14% of our net sales from
outside of the United States. Our business operations include a 66% economic interest in CFL, a nitrogen fertilizer manufacturer in Medicine Hat, Alberta Canada, a 50% interest in an ammonia
production joint venture in Trinidad, a 50% interest in a U.K. joint venture for the production of anhydrous ammonia and other fertilizer products and a 50% interest in a fertilizer trading operation
headquartered near Zurich, Switzerland. 

 Our investments in securities are subject to risks that may result in losses.  

        Our cash flows from operations have resulted in cash and cash-equivalents of approximately $2.3 billion as of
December 31, 2012. We generally invest these cash and cash-equivalents in what we believe to be relatively short-term, highly liquid and high credit quality instruments,
including notes and bonds issued by governmental entities or corporations and money market funds. Securities issued by governmental agencies include those issued directly by the U.S. government, those
issued by state, local or other governmental entities, and those guaranteed by entities affiliated with governmental entities. Our investments are subject to fluctuations in both market value and
yield based upon changes in market conditions, including interest rates, liquidity, general economic and credit market conditions and conditions specific to the issuers. 


        Due
to the risks of investments, we may not achieve expected returns or may realize losses on our investments which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

 Deterioration of global market and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

        A slowdown of, or persistent weakness in, economic activity caused by a deterioration of global market and economic conditions could
adversely affect our business in the following ways, among 

30




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

others:
conditions in the credit markets could impact the ability of our customers and their customers to obtain sufficient credit to support their operations; the failure of our customers to fulfill
their purchase obligations could result in increases in bad debts and impact our working capital; and the failure of certain key suppliers could increase our exposure to disruptions in supply or to
financial losses. We also may experience declining demand and falling prices for some of our products due to our customers' reluctance to replenish inventories. The overall impact of a global economic
downturn on us is difficult to predict, and our business could be materially adversely impacted. 

        In
addition, conditions in the international market for nitrogen fertilizer significantly influence our operating results. The international market for fertilizers is influenced by such
factors as the relative value of the U.S. dollar and its impact on the importation of fertilizers, foreign agricultural policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange
barriers in certain foreign markets and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and investment. 

 We have a material amount of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness, or need to refinance existing indebtedness, in the future, which may adversely affect our
operations.  

        As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $1.6 billion of total indebtedness, consisting primarily of
$800 million of our senior notes due in 2018 and $800 million of our senior notes due in 2020. We had excess borrowing capacity for general corporate purposes under our existing
revolving credit facility of approximately $491.0 million. The terms of our existing indebtedness allow us to incur significant additional debt in the future. Our existing indebtedness and any
additional debt we may incur in the future could have negative consequences on our business should operating cash flows be insufficient to cover debt service, which would adversely affect our
operations and liquidity. 

        From
time to time we consider our options to refinance our outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to obtain any financing, whether through the issuance of new debt securities or
otherwise, and the terms of any such financing are dependent on, among other things, our financial condition, financial market conditions within our industry and generally, credit ratings and numerous
other factors. Consequently, in the event that we need to access the credit markets, including to refinance our debt, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable
terms or within an acceptable timeframe, if at all. An inability to obtain financing with acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows. 

 The loss of key members of our management and professional staff may adversely affect our business.  

        We believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our senior management and professional staff. The
loss of one or more key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to find, hire and retain needed key personnel in the future, our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 

31






<A
NAME="page_do16601_1_32"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

<A
NAME="do16601_cf_industries_holdings,_inc."> 
    CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.        

 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS  

        From time to time, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as in other written reports and verbal statements, we
make forward-looking statements that are not statements of historical fact and may involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based
on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements may also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. We have used the words
"anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking
statements in this document. These forward-looking statements are made based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data, our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and
projections about the industries and markets in which we operate and management's beliefs and assumptions concerning future events affecting us. These statements are not guarantees of future
performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control.
Therefore, our actual results may differ materially from what is expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statements. We want to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking
statements. We do not undertake any responsibility to release publicly any revisions to these forward- looking statements to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this
document. Additionally, we do not undertake any responsibility to provide updates regarding the occurrence of any unanticipated events which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or
implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this document. 

        Important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Such
factors include, among others:



•the volatility of natural gas prices in North America; 
•the cyclical nature of our business and the agricultural sector; 
•the global commodity nature of our fertilizer products, the impact of global supply and demand on our selling prices, and
the intense global competition from other fertilizer producers; 
•conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry; 
•reliance on third party providers of transportation services and equipment;  
•difficulties in the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system and risks associated with cyber security;  
•weather conditions; 
•our ability to complete our recently announced production capacity expansion projects on schedule as planned, on budget or
at all; 
•risks associated with other expansions of our business, including unanticipated adverse consequences and the significant
resources that could be required; 
•potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations;  
•our potential inability to obtain or maintain required permits and governmental approvals or to meet financial assurance
requirements from governmental authorities; 
•future regulatory restrictions and requirements related to GHG emissions; 

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



•the seasonality of the fertilizer business; 
•the impact of changing market conditions on our forward sales programs;  
•risks involving derivatives and the effectiveness of our risk measurement and hedging activities;  
•the significant risks and hazards involved in producing and handling our products against which we may not be fully
insured; 
•our reliance on a limited number of key facilities; 
•risks associated with joint ventures; 
•acts of terrorism and regulations to combat terrorism; 
•difficulties in securing the supply and delivery of raw materials, increases in their costs or delays or interruptions in
their delivery; 
•risks associated with international operations; 
•losses on our investments in securities; 
•deterioration of global market and economic conditions; 
•our ability to manage our indebtedness; and 
•loss of key members of management and professional staff. 

33




 

<A
HREF="#bg16601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 






<A
NAME="do16601_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments."> 
    ITEM 1B