ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.        

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Our business is subject to a number of risks. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occur, then our business, financial condition or
results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely
affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our business is dependent on the price of natural gas in North America, which is both expensive and highly volatile.

        Natural
gas is the principal raw material used to produce nitrogen fertilizers. We use natural gas both as a chemical feedstock and as a fuel to produce ammonia, urea and UAN. Because
all of our nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities are located in the United States and Canada, the price of natural gas in North America directly impacts a substantial portion of our operating
expenses. Expenditures on natural gas comprised approximately 50% of the total cost of our nitrogen fertilizer sales in 2007 and a higher percentage of cash production costs (total production costs
less depreciation and amortization). 

        The
market price for natural gas in North America is significantly higher than the price of natural gas in certain other major fertilizer-producing regions. For example, during 2007,
natural gas prices in the United States (measured at the Henry Hub, near our Donaldsonville, Louisiana facility) averaged approximately $6.93 per MMBtu and in Canada (measured at AECO, near our joint
venture's Medicine Hat, Alberta facility) averaged approximately $5.99 per MMBtu. In comparison, during 2007, natural gas prices paid by fertilizer producers are estimated to have been approximately
$1.50 per MMBtu in Russia and approximately $0.70 per MMBtu in the Middle East. Many of our competitors benefit from access to lower-priced natural gas through manufacturing facilities or interests in
manufacturing facilities located in these regions or other regions with abundant supplies of natural gas. 

        The
price of natural gas in North America is also highly volatile. During 2007, the median daily price at Henry Hub ranged from a low of $5.30 per MMBtu on September 5, 2007 to a
high of $9.13 per MMBtu on February 6, 2007. During 2006, the median daily price at Henry Hub ranged from a low of $3.67 per MMBtu on October 2, 2006 to a high of $9.92 per MMBtu on
January 4, 2006. During 2005, the median daily price at Henry Hub ranged from a low of $5.53 per MMBtu on January 4, 2005 to a high of $15.40 per MMBtu on December 14, 2005. The
volatility of the price of natural gas in North America compounds our competitive disadvantage to some of our competitors, who, in addition to having access to lower-priced natural gas, may also
benefit from fixed-price natural gas contracts. 

        As
a result of global competition in the fertilizer industry, we may not be able to pass along to our customers in the form of higher product prices the higher operating costs we incur
due to our dependence on North American natural gas. For example, due to the high cost of natural gas during the third and fourth quarters of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006, we curtailed
production of fertilizers at our Donaldsonville complex because market prices of nitrogen fertilizer were below our cost of production. Unless differences between the prices for natural gas in North
America and other fertilizer-producing regions are reduced, or we are able to reduce our dependence on North American natural gas, the relatively expensive and highly volatile cost of natural gas in
North America could make it difficult for us to compete against producers from other parts of the world. 

15




 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

Our business is cyclical, resulting in periods of industry oversupply during which our results of operations tend to be negatively impacted.

        Historically,
selling prices for our products have fluctuated in response to periodic changes in supply and demand conditions. Demand is affected by population growth, changes in dietary
habits, non-food usage of crops, such as the production of ethanol and other biofuels, and planted acreage and application rates, among other things. Supply is affected by available
capacity and operating rates, raw material costs, government policies and global trade. 


        Periods
of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in new plant investment and increased production, causing supply to exceed demand and
prices and capacity utilization to decline. In particular, new ammonia and urea capacity is expected to be added abroad in low-cost regions. Future growth in demand for fertilizer may not
be sufficient to alleviate any existing or future conditions of excess industry capacity. 

        During
periods of industry oversupply, our results of operations tend to be affected negatively as the price at which we sell our products typically declines, resulting in reduced profit
margins, lower production of our products and possible plant closures. 

Our products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other fertilizer producers.

        We
are subject to intense price competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Fertilizers are global commodities, with little or no product differentiation, and customers make
their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product quality. We compete with a number of domestic and foreign producers,
including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. Some of these competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from fertilizer sales, which make them less
vulnerable to industry downturns and better positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. 

        Recent
consolidation in the fertilizer industry has increased the resources of several of our competitors, and we expect consolidation among fertilizer producers to continue. In light of
this industry consolidation, our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through investments in new or existing operations or through
acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. In the future, we may not be able to find suitable assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. Even if we are able to
locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to acquire desired assets or enter into desired joint ventures or partnerships on economically acceptable terms. Our inability to compete
successfully could result in the loss of customers, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. 

        China
is the world's largest producer and consumer of fertilizers and is expected to continue expanding its fertilizer production capability. This expected increase in capacity could
adversely affect the balance between global supply and demand and may put downward pressure on global fertilizer prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 


        We
may face increased competition from Russian and Ukrainian urea, which is currently subject to antidumping duty orders that impose significant duties on urea imported into the United
States from these two countries. The antidumping orders have been in place since 1987, and there has been almost no urea imported into the United States from Russia or Ukraine since that time. Russia
and Ukraine currently have considerable capacity to produce urea and are the world's largest urea exporters. Producers in both countries benefit from natural gas prices that are controlled by their
governments, particularly in Russia, where the commercial value of the gas is lower than the U.S., encouraging inefficient urea production and exports. Following a review by the U.S. Department of
Commerce and 

16




 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



the
U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), the antidumping orders were extended for an additional five-year period in November 2005. The decision to extend the orders has been appealed
by the Russian producers, and as part of that appeal process, the ITC in November 2007 again found that the orders must be continued. For a number of reasons, including available capacity, the
attractiveness of the U.S. market and barriers to urea imports in other key consuming markets, we expect that if the decision to extend the orders is reversed, imports of Russian and Ukrainian urea
into the United States are likely to increase significantly, causing our sales and margins to suffer. In addition, one large Russian producer, the EuroChem Group ("EuroChem"), has requested the
Department of Commerce to review its sales and costs and establish a new antidumping duty rate specifically for them. The Department of Commerce is expected to issue a final decision on the review in
May 2008. It is possible that EuroChem will receive a significant reduction in its antidumping duty rate and, if so, the reduction in duties could result in a significant increase in EuroChem's urea
exports to the U.S. 

Any decline in U.S. agricultural production or limitations on the use of our products for agricultural purposes could materially adversely affect the market for our
products.

        Conditions
in the U.S. agricultural industry can significantly impact our operating results. The U.S. agricultural industry can be affected by a number of factors, including weather
patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, the domestic and international demand for U.S. agricultural products and U.S. and foreign policies regarding trade in
agricultural products. 

        State
and federal governmental policies, including farm and biofuel subsidies and commodity support programs, as well as the prices of fertilizer products, may also directly or
indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of fertilizers for particular agricultural applications. For example, in recent years, ethanol production in the
U.S. has increased significantly due, in part, to federal legislation mandating greater use of renewable fuels. This increase in ethanol production has led to an increase in the amount of corn grown
in the U.S. and to increased fertilizer usage on both corn and other crops that have also benefited from improved farm economics. Developments in crop technology, such as nitrogen fixation, the
conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants can assimilate, could also reduce the use of chemical fertilizers and adversely affect the demand for our products. In addition, several
states are currently considering limitations on the use and application of chemical fertilizers due to concerns about the impact of these products on the environment. 

Adverse weather conditions may decrease demand for our fertilizer products.


        Weather
conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing seasons may cause agricultural customers to use different forms of nitrogen fertilizer,
which may adversely affect demand for the forms that we sell. Adverse weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have
an adverse effect on crop yields, which lowers the income of growers and could impair their ability to purchase fertilizer from our customers. 

Our inability to predict future seasonal fertilizer demand accurately could result in excess inventory, potentially at costs in excess of market value, or product
shortages.

        The
fertilizer business is seasonal. The strongest demand for our products occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. We
and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is greatest for
ammonia due to the limited ability of our customers and their customers to store significant quantities of this product. The seasonality of fertilizer demand results in our sales volumes and net sales
being the highest during the 

17




 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



spring
and our working capital requirements being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to
weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. 

        If
seasonal demand exceeds our projections, our customers may acquire products from our competitors, and our profitability will be negatively impacted. If seasonal demand is less than we
expect, we will be left with excess inventory that will have to be stored (in which case our results of operations will be negatively impacted by any related storage costs) and/or liquidated (in which
case the selling price may be below our production, procurement and storage costs). The risks associated with excess inventory and product shortages are particularly acute with respect to our nitrogen
fertilizer business because of the highly volatile cost of natural gas and nitrogen fertilizer prices and the relatively brief periods during which farmers can apply nitrogen fertilizers. 

Our customer base is concentrated, with certain large customers accounting for a substantial portion of our sales.


        During
2007, three customers, CHS Inc. (successor to Agriliance, LLC (a 50-50 joint venture between Land O'Lakes, Inc. and CHS, Inc.)),
GROWMARK, Inc., and ConAgra International
Fertilizer Company made combined fertilizer purchases of approximately $1,181.2 million from us, representing approximately 43% of our total net sales. Because we depend on these customers for
a significant portion of our sales, we may have less flexibility than some of our competitors to diversify our customer base and seek more profitable direct sales to customers of our significant
customers. Any substantial change in purchasing decisions by any or all of these customers, whether due to actions by our competitors, our actions in expanding the direct sale of fertilizers to the
customers of our significant customers or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

A change in the use of the forward pricing program by our customers or an increase in the use of product purchases to support the program could increase our exposure to
fluctuations in our profit margins and materially adversely affect our operating results, liquidity and financial condition.

        In
mid-2003, we implemented a forward pricing program. Through our forward pricing program, we offer our customers the opportunity to purchase product on a forward basis at
prices and delivery dates we propose. As our customers enter into forward nitrogen fertilizer purchase contracts with us, we effectively fix the cost of natural gas, the largest and most volatile
component of our supply cost. As a result of fixing the selling prices of our products under our forward pricing program, often months in advance of their ultimate delivery to customers, our reported
selling prices and margins may differ from market spot prices and margins available at the time of shipment. Under our forward pricing program, customers generally pay a significant portion of the
contract's sales value in advance of shipment, thereby significantly increasing our liquidity. Any cash payments received in advance from customers in connection with the forward pricing program are
reflected on our balance sheet as a current liability until the related orders are shipped, which can take up to several months. As of December 31, 2007, our current liability for customer
advances related to unshipped orders under this program equaled approximately 36% of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. 


        We
believe the forward pricing program is most appealing to our customers during periods of generally increasing prices for nitrogen fertilizers. Our customers may be less willing or
even unwilling to purchase products on a forward basis during periods of generally decreasing or stable prices or during periods of relatively high fertilizer prices. For example, in the fourth
quarter of 2005, a period during which prices for nitrogen fertilizer products reached then record high levels, our orders under the forward pricing program declined significantly as our customers and
their customers preferred to defer purchases of fertilizer products rather than commit to purchasing products at such high prices. Sales under the forward pricing program were lower during 2006, a
period of relatively high fertilizer 

18




 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



prices,
compared to 2005, with forward sales of nitrogen fertilizer products declining from approximately 70% of our nitrogen fertilizer volume during 2005 to approximately 44% in 2006. Conversely,
our customers may also be more willing to increase their use of FPP during periods of rapidly rising fertilizer prices as has been the case in 2007. For example, forward sales of nitrogen fertilizer
products increased under the forward pricing program in 2007 to approximately 66% of our nitrogen fertilizer volume during a period of rapidly increasing prices for nitrogen fertilizer. In
environments such as this, our profit margins may be lower than if we had not sold our nitrogen fertilizers under the FPP. 

        The
forward pricing program is also less effective at reducing our exposure to fluctuations in our profit margins in circumstances where we purchase the fertilizer product from third
parties for resale, rather than manufacture the product at one of our facilities. For example, due to the high cost of natural gas in North America during the third and fourth quarters of 2005, we
decided to curtail production at our facilities and increase our purchases of fertilizer products originating from off-shore, lower cost producers for resale to our customers. Because it
is generally not feasible to purchase fertilizer products from these third parties on a forward basis or match purchased quantities with specific order quantities, we may not be able to fix our profit
margins effectively on fertilizer products that we buy for resale under our forward pricing program. One method we use to reduce our margin exposure on sales of purchased products under our forward
pricing program is to purchase the required fertilizer products in advance of the specified delivery date. However, in such circumstances we may be required to buy and store the product sooner and in
greater quantities than if produced, thereby reducing the liquidity benefits otherwise associated with the forward pricing program. It also may not be feasible to purchase sufficient quantities of
fertilizer in advance of the specified delivery dates at known, acceptable prices, thereby reducing or eliminating the expected margins associated with the forward sales. 


        We
also sell phosphate products through our forward pricing program. In 2007, forward sales of phosphate fertilizer products represented approximately 42% of our phosphate fertilizer
volume. Unlike our nitrogen fertilizer products where we effectively fix the cost of natural gas, the largest and most volatile component of nitrogen costs, we do not fix the cost of phosphate raw
materials, such as sulfur and ammonia, which are among the largest components of our phosphate fertilizer costs. As a result, we are exposed to margin risk on phosphate products sold on a forward
basis. 

        Any
significant increase in our purchases of fertilizer products for resale to our customers or any reduction in the use of the forward pricing program by our customers due to changing
conditions in the fertilizer market, or otherwise, could increase our exposure to fluctuating profit margins and could have a material adverse affect our operating results, liquidity and financial
condition. 

Our operations are reliant on a limited number of key facilities that involve significant risks and hazards against which we may not be fully insured.

        Our
operations are subject to hazards inherent in the manufacturing, transportation, storage and distribution of chemical fertilizers, including ammonia, which is highly toxic and
corrosive. These hazards include: explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and
ruptures involving storage tanks, pipelines and rail cars; spills, discharges and releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; deliberate sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures;
unscheduled downtime; labor difficulties and other risks. Some of these hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental
damage, and they may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. For example, over the course of the past few years, we have been involved in
numerous property damage and 

19




 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



personal
injury lawsuits arising out of a hydrogen explosion at our Donaldsonville nitrogen fertilizer complex in 2000, in which three people died and several others were injured. We were also
involved in personal injury lawsuits arising out of a train derailment near Minot, North Dakota in 2002 that ruptured five tank cars, causing the formation of an ammonia cloud over the area, in which
one person died and numerous others were injured. 

        Our
exposure to these types of risks is increased because of our reliance on a limited number of key facilities. Our nitrogen fertilizer operations are dependent on our nitrogen
fertilizer complex in Donaldsonville, Louisiana and our joint venture's nitrogen fertilizer complex in Medicine Hat, Alberta. Our phosphate fertilizer operations are dependent on our phosphate mine
and associated beneficiation plant in Hardee County, Florida; our phosphate fertilizer complex in Plant City, Florida; and our ammonia terminal in Tampa, Florida. Any suspension of operations at any
of these key facilities could adversely affect our ability to produce our products, fulfill our commitments under our forward pricing program, and could have a material adverse effect on our business.
In addition, all of these facilities, other than the complex in Medicine Hat, are located in regions of the United States that experience a relatively high level of hurricane activity. Such storms,
depending on their severity and location, have the potential not only to damage our facilities and disrupt our operations but also to adversely affect the shipping and distribution of our products and
the supply and price of natural gas and sulfur in the Gulf region. 

        We
maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. If we were to
incur significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to various
self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. As a result of market conditions, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for certain insurance policies
can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. 

We rely on third party providers of transportation services and equipment, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties beyond our control that may adversely affect our
operations.

        We
rely on railroad, trucking, pipeline, river barge and ocean vessel companies to transport raw materials to our manufacturing facilities, to deliver finished products to our
distribution system and to ship finished products to our customers. We also lease rail cars from rail car owners in order to ship raw materials and finished products. These transportation operations,
equipment, and services are subject to various hazards, including extreme weather conditions, work stoppages, delays, spills, derailments and other accidents and other operating hazards. 

        These
transportation operations, equipment and services are also subject to environmental, safety, and regulatory oversight. Due to concerns related to accidents, terrorism, or the
potential use of fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations affecting the transportation of our raw materials or finished products. In addition,
new regulations could be implemented affecting the equipment used to ship our raw materials or finished products. 


        If
we are delayed or unable to ship our finished products or obtain raw materials as a result of these transportation companies' failure to operate properly, or if new and more stringent
regulatory requirements are implemented affecting transportation operations or equipment, or if there are significant increases in the cost of these services or equipment, our sales revenues and/or
cost of operations could be adversely affected. 

20




 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

Expansion of our business may result in unanticipated adverse consequences.

        We
recently completed the purchase of a 50 percent interest in KEYTRADE AG, a fertilizer trading organization headquartered near Zurich, Switzerland, and are considering other
possible expansions of our business, both domestically and in certain foreign locations. Acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures and other major investments require significant managerial
resources, which may be diverted from our other activities and may impair the operation of our businesses. 


        International
acquisitions, partnerships, or joint ventures or the international expansion of our business involve additional risks and uncertainties, including: 



•difficulties
and costs of complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations;
•unexpected
changes in regulatory environments;
•political
and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest;
•nationalization
of properties by foreign governments;
•tax
rates that may exceed those in the United States, and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements;
•the
imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; and
•the
impact of exchange rate fluctuations between the United States dollar and foreign currencies in the countries where we operate. 


        Furthermore,
acquisitions of businesses or facilities entail a number of additional risks, including: 



•problems
with effective integration of operations;
•the
inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships;
•loss
of key personnel of businesses we acquire or invest in;
•exposure
to unanticipated liabilities; and
•difficulties
in realizing efficiencies, synergies and cost savings. 


        These
risks of unanticipated adverse consequences from any expansion of our business through investments, acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures are increased due to the
significant capital and other resources that we may have to commit to any such expansion, which may not be recoverable if the expansion initiative to which they were devoted is ultimately not
implemented. We also face increased exposure to risks related to acquisitions and international operations because our experience with acquisitions and international operations is limited. As a result
of these and other factors, including general economic risk, we may not be able to realize our projected returns from any future acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or other investments. 


We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, as well as potential environmental liabilities, which may require us to make substantial
expenditures.

        We
are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the United States and Canada, including laws and regulations relating to land reclamation; the
generation, treatment, storage, disposal and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; and the cleanup of hazardous substance releases. These laws include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act,
RCRA, CERCLA, the Toxic Substances Control Act and various other federal, state, provincial, local and international statutes. 

21




 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

        As
a fertilizer company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, our business is inherently subject to spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances into the
environment. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous
substances into the environment. Given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are incurring currently, and are likely to incur periodically in the future, liabilities under CERCLA and other
environmental cleanup laws at our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. The costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may
be required to conduct or finance may be material. Additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or
release of hazardous substances into the environment. 

        Violations
of environmental and health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit
revocations and facility
shutdowns. Environmental and health and safety laws change rapidly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we have not always been and may not always be in compliance with all
environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Additionally, future environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or more vigorous enforcement of current laws and regulations,
whether caused by violations of environmental and health and safety laws by us or other chemical fertilizer companies or otherwise, may require us to make substantial expenditures. Additionally, our
costs to comply with, or any liabilities under, these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 


        See
Item 1. Business.—Environmental Health and Safety and Item 3. Legal Proceedings for additional information on our environmental and legal matters. 

Our operations are dependent on numerous required permits and approvals from governmental authorities.

        We
hold numerous environmental, mining and other governmental permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. Expansion of our operations also is predicated upon
securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or
substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility and on our business, financial condition and
results of operations. 

        In
certain cases, as a condition to procuring such permits and approvals, we may be required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. The purpose of these requirements
is to assure the government that sufficient company funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation at our facilities. In March 2006, we established
an escrow account for the benefit of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection as a means of taking advantage of a safe harbor provision in a 2005 amendment to Florida's regulations
pertaining to financial assurance requirements for the closure of phosphogypsum stacks. Additionally, Florida regulations require mining companies to demonstrate financial responsibility for wetland
and other surface water mitigation measures in advance of any mining activities. If and when we are able to expand our Hardee mining activities to areas not currently permitted, we will be required to
demonstrate financial responsibility for wetland and other surface water mitigation measures in advance of any mining activities. The demonstration of financial responsibility may be provided by
passage of financial tests. In the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial tests, alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements would require us to expend
funds for the purchase of bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies or similar instruments. It is possible that we will not be able to comply with 

22




 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



either
current or new financial assurance regulations in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

        As
of December 31, 2007, the area permitted by local, state and federal authorities for mining at our Hardee phosphate complex had approximately 54 million tons of
recoverable phosphate rock reserves, which will meet our requirements, at current operating rates, for approximately 15 years. We have initiated the process of applying for authorization and
permits to expand the geographical area in which we can mine at our Hardee property. The expanded geographical area has an estimated 31 million tons of recoverable phosphate reserves, which
will allow us to conduct mining operations at our Hardee property for approximately nine additional years at current operating rates, assuming we secure the authorization and permits to mine in this
area. In Florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the authorization and permitting process for mining companies. A denial of the authorizations or permits to continue
and/or expand our mining operations at our Hardee property would prevent us from mining all of our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. 

        Likewise,
our phosphogypsum stack system at Plant City has sufficient capacity to meet our requirements through 2014 at current operating rates and is subject to regular renewals of our
operating permits. We have secured the local development authorization to increase the capacity of this stack system. Based on this authorization, estimated stack system capacity is expected to meet
our requirements until 2040 at current operating rates and is subject to securing the corresponding operating permits. This time frame is approximately eight years beyond our current estimate of
available phosphate rock reserves at our Hardee mine. A decision by the state or federal authorities to deny a renewal of our current permits or to deny operating permits for the expansion of our
stack system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Acts of terrorism could negatively affect our business.

        Like
other companies with major industrial facilities, our plants and ancillary facilities may be targets of terrorist activities. Many of these plants and facilities store significant
quantities of ammonia and other items that can be dangerous if mishandled. Any damage to infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or injury to
employees, who could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism, may affect our operations. Any disruption of our ability to produce or distribute our products could result in a
significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of
operations. In addition, due to concerns related to terrorism or the potential use of certain fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations impacting
the security of our plants, terminals and warehouses or the transportation and use of fertilizers. These regulations could result in higher operating costs or limitations on the sale of our products
and could result in significant unanticipated costs, lower revenues and/or reduced profit margins. 

Our operations are dependent upon raw materials provided by third parties and an increase in the price or any delay or interruption in the delivery of these raw materials may
adversely affect our business.

        We
use natural gas, ammonia and sulfur as raw materials in the manufacture of fertilizers. We purchase these raw materials from third-party suppliers. Prices for these raw materials can
fluctuate significantly due to changes in supply and demand. For example, the price of sulfur has increased from an average of $112 per long ton in the fourth quarter of 2007 to $252 per long ton in
the first quarter of 2008. We may not be able to pass along to our customers increases in the costs of raw materials, 

23




 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

which
could have a material adverse effect on our business. These products are transported by barge, truck, rail or pipeline to our facilities by third-party transportation providers or through the
use of facilities owned by third parties. Any delays or interruptions in the delivery of these key raw materials, including those caused by capacity constraints; explosions; fires; severe weather and
natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and ruptures involving pipelines; deliberate sabotage and terrorist
incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; or labor difficulties, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Our investments in securities are subject to risks that may result in losses.

        We
invest our excess cash balances in several types of securities, including notes and bonds issued by governmental entities or corporations, and money market funds. Securities issued by
governmental agencies include those issued directly by the U.S. government, those issued by state, local or other governmental entities, and those guaranteed by entities affiliated with governmental
entities. Our investments are subject to fluctuations in both market value and yield based upon changes in market conditions, including interest rates, liquidity, general economic conditions and
conditions specific to the issuers. 

        At
December 31, 2007, our short-term investments were predominantly auction rate securities issued by state, local and other governmental entities, or guaranteed by entities
affiliated with governmental entities. They have long-term maturities, but the interest rates are reset periodically through an auction process which provides opportunities for holders of the
securities to liquidate their positions. In February 2008, the market for these securities began to show signs of illiquidity and auctions for several securities failed on their scheduled
auction dates. As a result, we continue to hold investments in certain of these securities. These investments, for which auctions have failed, are no longer liquid, and we will not be able to access
these funds until such time as an auction of these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. Currently, the market for these securities continues to show signs of
illiquidity, and we have not assessed the impact of the illiquid market on the value of the securities. It is reasonably possible that a change in the estimated value of these instruments could occur
after an evaluation is completed in the future. 

        Due
to the risks of investments, we may not achieve expected returns, we may realize losses on our investments or we may be required to reclassify assets as non-current on our
consolidated balance sheet, any or all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, or financial condition. 

The loss of key members of our management and professional staff may adversely affect our business.

        We
believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our senior management and professional staff. The loss of one or more key personnel could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to find, hire and retain needed key personnel in the future, our results of operations could be materially and
adversely affected. 

24





<A
NAME="page_dk43501_1_25"> 






 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.  

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS  

        This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are not statements of historical fact and may involve a number of risks and
uncertainties. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements may also relate
to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. We have used the words "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," and similar
terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations
and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of
which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any
responsibility to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report. Additionally, we do not
undertake any responsibility to provide updates regarding the occurrence of any unanticipated events which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking
statements contained in this report. 

        Important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. As
stated elsewhere in this filing, such factors include, among others: 



•the
relatively expensive and volatile cost of North American natural gas;
•the
cyclical nature of our business and the agricultural sector;
•changes
in global fertilizer supply and demand and its impact on the selling price of our products;
•the
nature of our products as global commodities;
•intense
global competition in the consolidating markets in which we operate;
•conditions
in the U.S. agricultural industry;
•weather
conditions;
•our
inability to accurately predict seasonal demand for our products;
•the
concentration of our sales with certain large customers;
•the
impact of changing market conditions on our forward pricing program;
•the
reliance of our operations on a limited number of key facilities;
•the
significant risks and hazards against which we may not be fully insured;
•reliance
on third party transportation providers;
•unanticipated
adverse consequences related to the expansion of our business;
•our
inability to expand our business, including the significant resources that could be required;
•potential
liabilities and expenditures related to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations;
•our
inability to obtain or maintain required permits and governmental approvals;
•acts
of terrorism;
•difficulties
in securing the supply and delivery of raw materials we use and increases in their costs;
•losses
on our investments in securities; and
•loss
of key members of management and professional staff. 

25









<A
NAME="page_dm43501_1_26"> 






 


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.  

  
 
ITEM 1B