ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.        

        Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect
our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the market prices of our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be
immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the market prices of our securities.  

 Our business is dependent on natural gas, which is subject to a high level of price volatility.  

        Natural gas is the principal raw material used to produce nitrogen fertilizers. We use natural gas both as a chemical feedstock and as
a fuel to produce ammonia, urea, UAN, AN and other nitrogen products. Natural gas comprises a significant portion of the total cost of our nitrogen fertilizers. 


        Because
most of our nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities are located in the United States and Canada, the price of natural gas in North America directly impacts a substantial
portion of our production costs. The price of natural gas in North America is highly volatile. During 2010, the median daily price at the Henry Hub, the most heavily-traded natural gas pricing basis
in North America, reached a high of $7.51 per MMBtu on January 8, 2010 and a low of $3.18 per MMBtu on October 26, 2010. The market price of natural gas in North America is not linked to
other world gas prices and is also higher than the price of natural gas in certain other major fertilizer-producing regions, including the Middle East. In addition to having access to lower-priced
natural gas, some of our competitors may also benefit from fixed-price natural gas contracts, or from contracts linked directly to the market price of the nitrogen fertilizer being manufactured.
Recent declines in the price of North American natural gas have been driven, in part, by the development of new sources of natural gas for the North American market, including, "unconventional"
sources such as shale gas, exploration and development of new natural gas fields and natural gas imports in the form of liquid natural gas. Any limitation on these sources of natural gas as a result
of the environmental concerns raised with the development of new natural gas fields or the techniques used to recover shale gas or otherwise could cause the price of natural gas in North America to
rise significantly. Given the volatility of pricing and our dependence on North American natural gas, the price we pay for natural gas in the future may be higher than prices paid by producers in
certain other fertilizer-producing regions of the world, which may make it more difficult for us to compete against these producers. 

        Our
production facilities outside North America, particularly those in the United Kingdom, are, like those in North America, also subject to high natural gas prices relative to those in
certain other major fertilizer-producing regions and to significant natural gas price volatility. 

        We
may not be able to pass along higher operating costs to our customers in the form of higher product prices. A significant increase in the price of natural gas (which can be driven by,
among other things, supply disruptions, governmental or regulatory actions, cold weather and oil price spikes) that is not hedged or recovered through an increase in the price of related nitrogen
products could result in reduced profit margins and lower production levels. If market prices for our products are below our cost of production due to the high cost of natural gas, we may shift our
sourcing of nitrogen fertilizers from manufactured to purchased products. In the past, we have idled one or more of our nitrogen fertilizer plants occasionally in response to high natural gas prices
and may do so again in the future. During late 2005 and early 2006, for example, we curtailed production of fertilizers at the CF Industries Donaldsonville complex for this reason. 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

 Our business is cyclical, resulting in periods of industry oversupply during which our results of operations tend to be negatively impacted.  

        Historically, selling prices for our products have fluctuated in response to periodic changes in supply and demand conditions. Demand
is affected by population growth, changes in dietary habits, non-food usage of crops, such as the production of ethanol and other biofuels, and planted acreage and application rates, among
other things. Supply is affected by available capacity and operating rates, raw material costs and availability, government policies and global trade. 

        Periods
of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in investment in production capacity, which may cause supply to exceed demand and
selling prices and capacity utilization to decline. Future growth in demand for fertilizer may not be sufficient to absorb excess industry capacity. 


        During
periods of industry oversupply, our results of operations tend to be affected negatively as the price at which we sell our products typically declines, resulting in possible
reduced profit margins, write-downs in the value of our inventory and/or temporary or permanent curtailments of production. 

 Our products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other fertilizer producers.  

        We are subject to intense price competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Fertilizers are global commodities, with little or
no product differentiation, and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product quality. We compete with a
number of domestic and foreign producers, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. 

        Some
of these competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from fertilizer sales, which make them less vulnerable to industry downturns and better
positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. Consolidation in the fertilizer industry has increased the resources of several of our competitors. Such consolidation could continue
and our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through investments in new or existing operations or through acquisitions, joint ventures or
partnerships. 

        China,
the world's largest producer and consumer of fertilizers, is expected to continue expanding its fertilizer production capability. This expected increase in capacity could
adversely affect the balance between global supply and demand and may put downward pressure on global fertilizer prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

        We
may face increased competition from Russian and Ukrainian urea and ammonium nitrate. Urea imports from Russia and Ukraine are currently subject to antidumping orders that impose
significant duties (ranging from approximately 22 to 68 percent) on urea imported into the United States from these two countries. Russia and Ukraine currently have considerable capacity to
produce urea and are the world's largest urea exporters. In Russia, the price for natural gas used for industrial production continues to be set by the government and is below its market value.
Russian nitrogen fertilizer producers benefit from these government-controlled prices, encouraging inefficient urea production and high volumes of exports. In Ukraine, the government intervenes with
respect to natural gas prices available to fertilizer producers so as to permit continued exports. The antidumping orders have been in place since 1987, and there has been very little urea imported
into the United States from Russia or Ukraine since that time. In August of 2010, the U.S. Department of Commerce completed its review of recent U.S. sales made by the Russian exporter EuroChem and
concluded that these sales had been priced almost 22 percent below their fair value. It ordered that antidumping duties be collected on those sales. In December 2010, the U.S. Department of
Commerce and the U.S. 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



International
Trade Commission initiated the third "sunset review" of the urea antidumping orders to determine whether they should be kept in place for an additional five years. The sunset review
process is expected to be completed in late 2011, or early 2012. If the antidumping duty orders do not continue, we may face increased competition from unfairly priced urea from Russia and Ukraine,
which could have a negative impact on our selling prices and sales volumes. 

        Fertilizer
grade ammonium nitrate from Russia is subject to an antidumping "suspension agreement" that governs the minimum prices and maximum volumes of imports of this product into the
United States. Volumes are limited to no more than 150,000 metric tons per year and minimum prices are tied to pricing levels in the U.S. market. These restrictions have been in place since 2000.
Russia is by far the world's largest ammonium nitrate producer and exporter. As in the case of urea, Russian ammonium nitrate producers benefit from below-market pricing of natural gas. In March 2011,
the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. International Trade Commission will initiate the second "sunset review" of the Russian ammonium nitrate suspension agreement. This process will be
completed in the first half of 2012. If the suspension agreement is terminated, we may face increased competition from large volumes of unfairly priced Russian ammonium nitrate, which could have a
negative impact on selling prices and sales volumes of fertilizer grade ammonium nitrate. Fertilizer grade ammonium nitrate from Ukraine is subject to an antidumping duty order under which imports of
this product are currently subject to a duty of over 156 percent. That order will be reviewed beginning in June 2012. 

 A decline in U.S. agricultural production or limitations on the use of our products for agricultural purposes could materially adversely affect the market for our products.  


        Conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry significantly impact our operating results. The U.S. agricultural industry can be affected
by a number of factors, including weather patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, domestic and international demand for U.S. agricultural products and U.S.
and foreign policies regarding trade in agricultural products. 

        State
and federal governmental policies, including farm and biofuel subsidies and commodity support programs, as well as the prices of fertilizer products, may also directly or
indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of fertilizers for particular agricultural applications. In recent years, for example, ethanol production in the
United States has increased significantly due, in part, to federal legislation mandating greater use of renewable fuels. This increase in ethanol production has led to an increase in the amount of
corn grown in the United States and to increased fertilizer usage on both corn and other crops that have also benefited from improved farm economics. While the current Renewable Fuels Standard, or
RFS, encourages continued high levels of corn-based ethanol production, a continuing "food versus fuel" debate and other factors have resulted in calls to reduce subsidies for ethanol,
allow increased ethanol imports and adopt temporary waivers of the current RFS levels, any of which could have an adverse effect on corn-based ethanol production, planted corn acreage and
fertilizer demand. Developments in crop technology, such as nitrogen fixation, the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants can assimilate, could also reduce the use of chemical
fertilizers and adversely affect the demand for our products. In addition, several states are currently considering limitations on the use and application of chemical fertilizers due to concerns about
the impact of these products on the environment. 

 We rely on third party providers of transportation services and equipment, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties beyond our control that may adversely affect our
operations.  

        We rely on railroad, trucking, pipeline, river barge and ocean vessel companies to transport raw materials to our manufacturing
facilities, to deliver finished products to our distribution system and to ship finished products to our customers. We also lease rail cars from rail car owners in order to ship raw materials and
finished products. These transportation operations, equipment and services are 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



subject
to various hazards, including extreme weather conditions, work stoppages, delays, accidents such as spills and derailments and other accidents and other operating hazards. 


        These
transportation operations, equipment and services are also subject to environmental, safety, and regulatory oversight. Due to concerns related to accidents, terrorism or the
potential use of fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations affecting the transportation of our raw materials or finished products. 

        If
we are delayed or are unable to ship our finished products or obtain raw materials as a result of these transportation companies' failure to operate properly, or if new and more
stringent regulatory requirements are implemented affecting transportation operations or equipment, or if there are significant increases in the cost of these services or equipment, our sales revenues
and/or cost of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, increases in our transportation costs, or changes in such costs relative to transportation costs incurred by our competitors, could
have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 

        The
railroad industry has initiated various efforts to limit the railroads' potential liability stemming from the transportation of Toxic Inhalation Hazard, or TIH, materials, such as
the anhydrous ammonia we transport to and from our manufacturing and distribution facilities. These efforts by the railroads include (i) requesting that the Surface Transportation Board, or
STB, issue a policy statement finding that it is reasonable for a railroad to require a shipper to indemnify the railroads and carry insurance for all liability above a certain amount arising from the
transportation of TIH materials; (ii) requesting that the STB approve an increase in the maximum reasonable rates that a railroad can charge for the transportation of TIH materials; and
(iii) lobbying for new legislation or regulations that would limit or eliminate the railroads' common carrier obligation to transport TIH materials. If the railroads were to succeed in one or
more of these initiatives, it could materially and adversely affect our operating expenses and potentially our ability to transport anhydrous ammonia and increase our liability for releases of our
anhydrous ammonia while in the care, custody and control of the railroads. 

        New
regulations could also be implemented affecting the equipment used to ship our raw materials or finished products. The U.S. railroad industry is developing higher ammonia tank car
performance standards which could require the modification or replacement of our leased tank car fleet. The effective date of these new regulations is not known at this time. However, the Federal
Railroad Administration has approved an "interim" car design for a 20 year period. In 2010, we contracted to switch a significant portion of our leased fleet over the next 5 years to
this "interim" car. The higher standards could adversely impact our cost of operations and our ability to obtain an adequate supply of rail cars to support our operations. 

 Integrating the business, operations and information management systems of CF Industries and Terra is continuing and integration difficulties could result in
disruptions in business operations and/or adverse operating results.  

        We are continuing the process of integrating Terra's operations with the operations of CF Industries. The integration of two
companies as large as CF and Terra is a complex process, and we may encounter substantial difficulties as we complete integration of the two companies. Any difficulties in the integration work could
result in a delay or the failure to achieve all of the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition, and therefore, all of the expected cost savings and other synergies. Additionally, these
cost savings may be less than we currently expect or may be realized later than originally expected. 


        The
difficulties of integrating Terra's operations with those of CF include, among other things, exposure to unanticipated costs, expenses or liabilities, the use of separate management
information 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



systems
and the implementation of new or replacement systems, the transfer of processes and consolidation of corporate and administrative infrastructures. 


        CF Industries
and Terra utilized separate information management systems to process transactions governing core business operations. To fully integrate the Terra operations into
CF Industries business processes and to achieve the benefits of the acquisition, CF Industries has initiated a project to consolidate all business processes for the combined companies
under a new single enterprise resource planning (ERP) system utilizing software provided by SAP. This multi-year company-wide program will align business processes and
procedures, institute more efficient transaction processing and improve access to and consistency of information to enable standardization of business activities. We expect to implement this system in
2012. The implementation of an ERP system across the combined organization entails certain risks. If we do not implement the system successfully and within the planned budget, or if the system does
not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

 Adverse weather conditions may decrease demand for our fertilizer products and increase the cost of natural gas.  

        Weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing seasons may cause agricultural
customers to use different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the forms that we sell or may impede farmers from applying our fertilizers until the following growing
season, resulting in lower demand for our products. 

        Adverse
weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which lowers
the income of growers and could impair their ability to purchase fertilizer from our customers. 

        Weather
conditions or, in certain cases, weather forecasts, can also dramatically affect the price of natural gas, our principal raw material used to make nitrogen based fertilizers.
Colder than normal winters and warmer than normal summers increase the demand of natural gas for residential and industrial use. In addition, hurricanes affecting the Gulf coastal states can severely
impact the supply of natural gas and cause prices to rise sharply. 

 Expansion of our business may result in unanticipated adverse consequences.  

        We routinely consider possible expansions of our business, both domestically and in foreign locations. Major investments in our
business, including as a result of acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or other major investments require significant managerial resources, which may be diverted from our other activities and
may impair the operation of our businesses. The risks of any expansion of our business through investments, acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures are increased due to the significant capital
and other resources that we may have to commit to any such expansion, which may not be recoverable if the expansion initiative to which they were devoted is ultimately not implemented. As a result of
these and other factors, including general economic risk, we may not be able to realize our projected returns from any future acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or other investments. 

 We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, as well as potential environmental liabilities, which may require us to make substantial
expenditures.  

        We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom
and Trinidad, including laws and regulations relating to land reclamation; the generation, treatment, storage, disposal and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; the cleanup of hazardous
substance releases and the demolition of existing plant sites upon permanent closure. In the United States, these laws include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the Toxic Substances Control Act and various other federal,
state, provincial, local and international statutes. 

        As
a fertilizer company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, our business is inherently subject to spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances into the
environment. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous
substances into the environment. Given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are incurring currently, and are likely to incur periodically in the future, liabilities under CERCLA and other
environmental cleanup laws at our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. The costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may
be required to conduct or finance may be material. Additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or
release of hazardous substances into the environment. 

        Violations
of environmental and health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit
revocations and facility shutdowns. Environmental and health and safety laws change rapidly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we have not always been and may not always
be in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Additionally, future environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or more vigorous enforcement of
current laws and regulations, whether caused by violations of environmental and health and safety laws by us or other chemical fertilizer companies or otherwise, may require us to make substantial
expenditures. Additionally, our costs to comply with, or any liabilities under, these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. 

        We
have liability as a "potentially responsible party" at certain sites under certain environmental remediation laws, and have also been subject to related claims by private parties
alleging property damage and possible personal injury arising from contamination relating to active as well as discontinued operations. We may be subject to additional liability or additional claims
in the future.
Some of these matters may require significant expenditures for investigation and/or cleanup or other costs. 

        From
time to time, our production of anhydrous ammonia has resulted in accidental releases that have temporarily disrupted our manufacturing operations and resulted in liability for
administrative penalties and claims for personal injury. Although, to date, our costs to resolve these liabilities have not been material, we could incur significant costs if our liability coverage is
not sufficient to pay for all or a large part of any judgments against us, or if our carrier refuses coverage for these losses. 

        On
August 18, 2009, the EPA entered into a consent decree with environmental groups with respect to the promulgation of numeric criteria for nitrogen and phosphorous in surface
waters in Florida. The consent decree was approved by a Federal district court judge on November 16, 2009. The EPA adopted final numeric nutrient criteria for Florida lakes and inland flowing
waters on November 14, 2010. The EPA intends to propose numeric nutrient criteria for Florida coastal and estuarine waters in 2011 and finalize such criteria in 2012. The final numeric water
quality criteria for lakes and inland flowing waters are substantially lower than water quality criteria that have been developed and applied in Florida on a case-by-case
basis. CF Industries, along with the State of Florida, local wastewater utilities, other industrial entities (including other fertilizer manufacturers) and environmental groups, have filed suit
in Federal district court in Florida challenging the regulation. 

        On
September 30, 2009, the EPA proposed a Total Maximum Daily Load, or TMDL, for certain bodies of water within the Charlotte Harbor and Peace River watersheds in Florida. The
proposed TMDL specifies a zero nutrient load from all National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, or 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



NPDES,
dischargers within these watersheds, including our NPDES discharge associated with our mining operation in Hardee County. In response to significant public comment, the EPA did not finalize the
proposed TMDL. The EPA may finalize or reissue its notice of the TMDL (or a variation thereof) in the future but, to date, the agency has shown no indication of doing so. 


        The
outcomes of these regulatory initiatives (including the outcomes of legal challenges to these initiatives) could result in more stringent waste water discharge limits for our mining,
manufacturing and distribution operations in Florida. The specific limits imposed on wastewater discharges from our facilities will depend on the criteria that are adopted and the development of
specific permit conditions that are consistent with these criteria. More stringent limits could increase our costs and/or limit our operations and, therefore, could have a material adverse affect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

 Our operations are dependent on numerous required permits, approvals and meeting financial assurance requirements from governmental authorities.  


        We hold numerous environmental, mining and other governmental permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities.
Expansion of our operations is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material
permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility and on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. 

        In
certain cases, as a condition to procure such permits and approvals or as a condition to maintain existing approvals, we may be required to comply with regulatory financial assurance
requirements. The purpose of these requirements is to assure local, state or federal government agencies that we will have sufficient funds available for the ultimate closure, post-closure
care and/or reclamation at our facilities. For example, in 2006, we established an escrow account for the benefit of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) as a means of complying
with Florida's regulations governing financial assurance related to closure and post-closure of phosphogypsum stacks. Also, in 2010, pursuant to a Consent Decree with the U.S. EPA and the
FDEP, we funded a trust as a means of complying with similar requirements for closure, post closure and monitoring of the phosphogypsum stack system at our Plant City, Florida phosphate fertilizer
complex. 

        Florida
regulations also mandate payment of certain mining taxes based on the quantity of ore mined and are subject to change based on local regulatory approvals. Additional financial
assurance requirements or other increases in local mining regulations and taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

        Florida
regulations also require phosphate rock mining companies to demonstrate financial responsibility for wetland and other surface water mitigation measures in advance of any mining
activities. If and when we are able to expand our Hardee mining activities to areas not currently permitted, we will be required to demonstrate financial responsibility for wetland and other surface
water mitigation measures in advance of any mining activities. The demonstration of financial responsibility may be provided by passage of financial tests. In the event that we are unable to satisfy
these financial tests, alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements would require us to expend funds for the purchase of bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies or
similar instruments. It is possible that we will not be able to comply with either current or new financial assurance regulations in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. 


        As
of December 31, 2010, the area permitted by local, state and federal authorities for mining at our Hardee phosphate complex had approximately 42.4 million tons of
recoverable phosphate rock 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



reserves,
which will meet our requirements, at current operating rates, for approximately 12 years. We have initiated the process of applying for authorization and permits to expand the
geographical area in which we can mine at our Hardee property. The expanded geographical area has an estimated 34 million tons of recoverable phosphate reserves, which will allow us to conduct
mining operations at our Hardee property for approximately 10 additional years at current operating rates, assuming we secure the authorization and permits to mine in this area. In Florida, local
community participation has become an important factor in the authorization and permitting process for mining companies. A denial of the authorizations or permits to continue and/or expand our mining
operations at our Hardee property would prevent us from mining all of our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 


        Likewise,
our phosphogypsum stack system at Plant City has sufficient capacity to meet our requirements through 2014 at current operating rates and is subject to regular renewals of our
operating permits. We have secured the local development authorization to increase the capacity of this stack system. Based on this authorization, estimated stack system capacity is expected to meet
our requirements until 2040 at current operating rates and is subject to securing the corresponding operating permits. This time frame is approximately eight years beyond our current estimate of
available phosphate rock reserves at our Hardee mine. A decision by the state or federal authorities to deny a renewal of our current permits or to deny operating permits for the expansion of our
stack system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

 Future regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the jurisdictions in which we operate could materially adversely affect our operating results.  

        Currently, we are subject to climate change regulations in the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States. There are
substantial uncertainties as to the nature, stringency and timing of future climate change regulations. More stringent greenhouse gas (GHG) limitations, if they are enacted, are likely to have
significant impacts on the fertilizer industry due to the fact that our production facilities emit GHGs such as carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide. Regulation of GHGs may require us to make changes in
our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency, limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our costs for or limit
the availability of energy, raw materials or transportation, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, to the extent that climate change restrictions imposed in
countries where our competitors operate are less stringent than in the United States or Canada, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. 

        The
United Kingdom (a party to the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012) has adopted GHG emissions regulations, including regulations to implement the European Union Greenhouse Gas
Trading System. Our joint venture U.K. manufacturing plants are required to report GHG emissions annually to the United Kingdom Environment Agency pursuant to their site Environmental Permits
and Climate Change Agreement, which specify energy efficiency targets. Failure to meet efficiency targets may require the joint venture to purchase CO2 emissions allowances. The steam
boilers at each of our joint venture U.K. sites are also subject to the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme. More stringent GHG emission limits in the U.K and Europe are expected to go into effect
beginning in 2013, although the amount of additional reductions may depend in part on whether further international GHG agreements are reached for the post-2012 period. 


        In
Canada (also a party to the Kyoto Protocol), we are required to conduct an annual review of our operations with respect to compliance with Environment Canada's National Pollutant
Release Inventory and Ontario's Mandatory Monitoring and Reporting Regulation and the GHG Reporting Regulation. Ontario has also joined the Western Climate Initiative, comprised of several states in
the 

24




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



Western
U.S. and several Canadian provinces, which intends to establish a cap and trade regime for the trading of GHG credits within the regional area (ostensibly commencing in 2012). 

        In
the United States (not a party to the Kyoto Protocol), climate change action is evolving at state, regional and federal levels. Although there were federal legislative
developments in the 111th Congress, including the passage of a comprehensive climate change bill in the House of Representatives, efforts to pass such legislation have ceased.
However, the EPA has begun to issue federal GHG regulations that impact our facilities, including a mandatory greenhouse gas reporting rule that required all of our U.S. manufacturing facilities to
commence monitoring GHG emissions beginning on January 1, 2010 and begin reporting the previous year's emissions annually starting in 2011. In May 2010, the EPA issued the Prevention of
Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule (Tailoring Rule). This regulation establishes that the construction of new or modification of existing major sources of GHG
emissions would become subject to the PSD air permitting program (and later, the Title V permitting program) beginning in January 2011, although the regulation also significantly increases the
emissions thresholds that would subject facilities to these regulations. This regulation (along with other GHG regulations and determinations issued by the EPA) is currently subject to judicial
appeal. Regulation of GHG emissions pursuant to the PSD program could subject new capital projects to additional permitting requirements that may result in delays in completing such projects. 


        Our
Port Neal, Iowa facility is subject to a state regulation that requires the reporting of GHG emissions as part of its annual air emissions inventory reports. Other than the states'
implementation of the Tailoring Rule, none of the states where our U.S. production facilities are located—Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Iowa and Oklahoma—has proposed
regulations limiting GHG emissions. However, coalitions of states in the Northeast, Midwest (including Iowa) and West (as noted above) have been working together to develop regional GHG emission
reduction programs. There is substantial uncertainty in the near-term with respect to the development of GHG emissions regulations by the states that had signed the Midwest accord. 


 Our inability to predict future seasonal fertilizer demand accurately could result in excess inventory, potentially at costs in excess of market value, or product shortages.  

        The fertilizer business is seasonal. The strongest demand for our products occurs during the spring planting season, with a second
period of strong demand following the fall harvest. We and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during
the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is greatest for ammonia due to the short application season and the limited ability of our customers and their customers to store significant quantities of this
product. The seasonality of fertilizer demand results in our sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and our working capital requirements being the highest just prior to the
start of the spring season. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. 

        If
seasonal demand is less than we expect, we may be left with excess inventory that will have to be stored (in which case our results of operations will be negatively impacted by any
related increased storage costs) and/or liquidated (in which case the selling price may be below our production, procurement and storage costs). The risks associated with excess inventory and product
shortages are particularly acute with respect to our nitrogen fertilizer business because of the highly volatile cost of natural gas and nitrogen fertilizer prices and the relatively brief periods
during which farmers can apply nitrogen fertilizers. 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

 A change in the volume of products that our customers purchase on a forward basis could increase our exposure to fluctuations in our profit margins and materially adversely
affect our operating results, liquidity and financial condition.  

        We offer our customers the opportunity to purchase product on a forward basis including under our Forward Pricing Program (FPP) at
prices and delivery dates we propose. This improves our liquidity due to the cash payments received from customers in advance of shipment of the product and allows us to improve our production
scheduling and planning and the utilization of our manufacturing assets. 


        Under
our FPP, customers generally make an initial cash down payment at the time of order and generally pay the remaining portion of the contract sales value in advance of the shipment
date, thereby significantly increasing our liquidity. Any cash payments received in advance from customers in connection with forward sales are reflected on our balance sheet as a current liability
until the related orders are shipped, which can take up to several months, or more. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our current liability for customer advances related to unshipped orders
equaled approximately 54% and 18%, respectively, of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. 


        We
believe the ability to purchase product on a forward basis is most appealing to our customers during periods of generally increasing prices for nitrogen fertilizers. Our customers may
be less willing or even unwilling to purchase products on a forward basis during periods of generally decreasing or stable prices or during periods of relatively high fertilizer prices due to the
expectation of lower prices in the future or limited capital resources. In periods of rising fertilizer prices, selling our nitrogen fertilizers on a forward basis may result in lower profit margins
than if we had not sold fertilizer on a forward basis. Conversely, in periods of declining fertilizer prices, selling our nitrogen fertilizers on a forward basis may result in higher profit margins
than if we had not sold fertilizer on a forward basis. In addition, fixing the selling prices of our products, often months in advance of their ultimate delivery to customers, typically causes our
reported selling prices and margins to differ from spot market prices and margins available at the time of shipment. 

        As
our customers enter into forward nitrogen fertilizer purchase contracts with us, we generally use natural gas derivatives or fixed price fertilizer purchase contracts to hedge against
changes in the price of natural gas, the largest and most volatile component of our supply cost. The use of derivatives to lock in the natural gas portion of our margins on forward sales of nitrogen
products can result in volatility in reported earnings due to the unrealized mark-to-market adjustments that occur from changes in the value of the derivatives prior to the
purchase of the natural gas. 

        We
also sell phosphate products on a forward basis, including under the FPP. In 2010, forward sales of phosphate fertilizer products represented approximately 45% of our phosphate
fertilizer volume. Unlike our nitrogen fertilizer products where we have the opportunity to fix the cost of natural gas, we typically are unable to fix the cost of phosphate raw materials, such as
sulfur and ammonia, which are among the largest components of our phosphate fertilizer costs. As a result, we are typically exposed to margin risk on phosphate products sold on a forward basis. 


 Our business is subject to risks involving derivatives, including the risk that our hedging activities might not prevent losses.  

        We manage commodity price risk for our business. Although we have risk measurement systems that use various methodologies to quantify
the risk, these systems might not always be followed or might not always work as planned. Further, such risk measurement systems do not in themselves manage risk. Even if risks have been identified,
our earnings, cash flows, and balance sheet could be adversely affected by changes involving volatility, changes involving adverse correlation of commodity prices, or market liquidity issues. Our
ability to manage exposure to commodity price risk through the 

26




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



use
of financial derivatives also may be affected by limitations imposed by the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness. 

        In
order to manage financial exposure to commodity price and market fluctuations, we utilize natural gas derivatives to hedge our exposure to the price volatility of natural gas, the
principal raw material used in the production of nitrogen based fertilizers. In these hedging activities, we have used fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts (including forward
contracts under the FPP), futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter, or OTC, markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no single hedging
arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given contract or industry. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist. 

        In
addition, our hedging activities may themselves give rise to various risks that could adversely affect us. For example, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk when our derivatives
are in a net asset position. The counterparties to our natural gas derivatives are either large oil and gas companies or large financial institutions. The credit and economic crisis that started in
2008 impacted a number of financial institutions, some of which participate as counterparties to our natural gas swaps. We monitor the swap portfolio and credit quality of our counterparties and
adjust the level of activity we conduct with any one counterparty as necessary. We also manage the credit risk through the use of multiple counterparties, established credit limits, cash collateral
requirements and master netting arrangements. However, our liquidity could be negatively impacted by a counterparty default on derivative settlements. 

        Federal
legislation is also under consideration that could add substantial regulation to derivatives markets, with emphasis on OTC derivatives, which could adversely affect our business.
Some of the most stringent legislation proposed would require most market participants to utilize a formal exchange for these transactions. Utilizing a formal exchange requires gains or losses on
derivatives to be settled daily with the exchange. Transacting derivatives over-the-counter rather than through an exchange enables us to take advantage of favorable credit
lines provided by our counterparties. Through these credit lines, we are not required to post collateral on our derivatives
unless their value surpasses an established threshold. If we were forced to utilize an exchange, the cost of utilizing derivatives could increase, which would adversely affect our cost of operations
and could negatively impact our liquidity. 

 Our operations are reliant on a limited number of key facilities that involve significant risks and hazards against which we may not be fully insured.  

        Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the manufacturing, transportation, storage and distribution of chemical fertilizers,
including ammonia, which is highly toxic and corrosive. These hazards include: explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other
transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and ruptures involving storage tanks, pipelines and rail cars; spills, discharges and releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; deliberate
sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; labor difficulties and other risks. Some of these hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or
destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and they may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. For
example: 



•an explosion in 1994 at the Port Neal, Iowa facility resulted in nearly the entire facility being rebuilt;  
•over the course of the past few years, we have been involved in numerous property damage and personal injury lawsuits
arising out of a hydrogen explosion in 2000 at the Donaldsonville facility, in which three people died and several others were injured; 

27




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



•a fire in early 2008 at the Medicine Hat, Alberta facility required us to shut down the facility for approximately one
month; and   
•a fatal release of anhydrous ammonia occurred in November 2009 during loading operations at our ammonia terminal at Pine
Bend, Minnesota. A truck driver died at the scene and a second truck driver subsequently died from injuries sustained at the scene. 


        The
potential impact on us of these types of events is increased because of our reliance on a limited number of key facilities. Our nitrogen fertilizer operations are dependent on seven
separate nitrogen complexes, the largest of which is the combined Donaldsonville complex which represents approximately 40% of the Company's ammonia production capacity. Our phosphate fertilizer
operations are dependent on our phosphate mine and associated beneficiation plant in Hardee County, Florida; our phosphate fertilizer complex in Plant City, Florida; and our ammonia terminal in Tampa,
Florida. The suspension of operations at any of these key facilities could adversely affect our ability to produce our products and fulfill our commitments under our FPP, and could have a material
adverse effect on our business. In addition, a number of our key facilities, including the Donaldsonville complex and all of our phosphate operations, are located in regions of the
United States that experience a relatively high level of hurricane activity. Such storms, depending on their severity and location, have the potential not only to damage our facilities and
disrupt our operations but also to adversely affect the shipping and distribution of our products and the supply and price of natural gas and sulfur in the Gulf of Mexico region. 

        We
maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. If we were to
incur significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to various
self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. As a result of market conditions, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for certain insurance policies
can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. 

 We are exposed to risks associated with our joint ventures.  

        We participate in joint ventures including CFL (which owns our facility in Medicine Hat, Alberta), Point Lisas (which owns our facility
in Trinidad), GrowHow (which owns our facilities in Billingham and Ince, United Kingdom) and Keytrade AG, or Keytrade. Our joint venture partners may share or have majority control over the
operations of our joint ventures. As a result, our investments in joint ventures involve risks that are different from the risks involved in owning facilities and operations independently. These risks
include the possibility that our joint ventures or our partners: have economic or business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; are in a position to
take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives; subject the joint venture to liabilities exceeding those contemplated; take actions that reduce our return on investment; or
take actions that harm our reputation or restrict our ability to run our business. 


        In
addition, we may become involved in disputes with our joint venture partners, which could lead to impasses or situations that could harm the joint venture, which could reduce our
revenues or increase our costs. 

 Acts of terrorism and regulations to combat terrorism could negatively affect our business.  

        Like other companies with major industrial facilities, our plants and ancillary facilities may be targets of terrorist activities. Many
of these plants and facilities store significant quantities of ammonia and other items that can be dangerous if mishandled. Any damage to infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation,
transmission and distribution facilities, or injury to employees, who could be direct 

28




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



targets
or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism, may affect our operations. Any disruption of our ability to produce or distribute our products could result in a significant decrease in revenues
and significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, due to concerns
related to terrorism or the potential use of certain fertilizers as explosives, local, state, federal and foreign governments could implement new regulations impacting the security of our plants,
terminals and warehouses or the transportation and use of fertilizers. These regulations could result in higher operating costs or limitations on the sale of our products and could result in
significant unanticipated costs, lower revenues and/or reduced profit margins. We manufacture and sell AN in the United States and, through our GrowHow joint venture, in the
United Kingdom. AN can be used as an explosive and was used in the Oklahoma City bombing in April 1995. It is possible that the U.S. or U.K. governments could impose limitations on the use,
sale or distribution of AN, thereby limiting our ability to manufacture or sell that product. 

 Our operations are dependent upon raw materials provided by third parties and an increase in the price or any delay or interruption in the delivery of these raw materials
may adversely affect our business.  

        We use natural gas, ammonia and sulfur as raw materials in the manufacture of fertilizers. We purchase these raw materials from
third-party suppliers. Prices for these raw materials can fluctuate significantly due to changes in supply and demand. We may not be able to pass along to our customers increases in the costs of raw
materials, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. These products are transported by barge, truck, rail or pipeline to our facilities by third-party transportation providers or
through the use of facilities owned by third parties. Any delays or interruptions in the delivery of these key raw materials, including those caused by
capacity constraints; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and ruptures
involving pipelines; deliberate sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; or labor difficulties, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 


 We are subject to risks associated with international operations.  

        Our international business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including difficulties and costs associated with
complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; currency fluctuations; tax rates that may exceed those in the
United States; earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements; and the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions. During 2010, we derived approximately 15% of our
net sales from outside of the United States. Our business operations include a 50% interest in an ammonia production joint venture in Trinidad and a 50% interest in a U.K. joint venture for the
production of anhydrous ammonia and other fertilizer products. We are also evaluating development of a new nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facility in Peru. 

 Our customer base is concentrated, with certain large customers accounting for a substantial portion of our sales.  

        In 2010, our top ten customers represented approximately 50% of our total consolidated net sales. Three
customers—CHS Inc., or CHS; Gavilon Fertilizer LLC, or Gavilon; and GROWMARK, Inc., or GROWMARK; on a combined basis, represented approximately 23% of our consolidated
net sales. We have multi-year supply contracts with GROWMARK and Gavilon that both expire on June 30, 2013. We depend on these customers for a significant portion of our sales and
may have less flexibility than 

29




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



some
of our competitors to seek profitable sales to other customers. A substantial change in purchasing decisions by any or all of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 Our investments in securities are subject to risks that may result in losses.  

        We invest in several types of securities, including notes and bonds issued by governmental entities or corporations and money market
funds. Securities issued by governmental agencies include those issued directly by the U.S. government, those issued by state, local or other governmental entities, and those guaranteed by entities
affiliated with governmental entities. Our investments are subject to fluctuations in both market value and yield based upon changes in market conditions, including interest rates, liquidity, general
economic and credit market conditions and conditions specific to the issuers. 

        At
December 31, 2010, we held investments of $102.8 million in tax-exempt auction rate securities. These securities were issued by various state and local
government entities and are all supported by student loans that were issued primarily under the Federal Family Loan Program. These auction rate securities have stated maturities that range up to
37 years, and the underlying securities are guaranteed by entities affiliated with governmental entities. Although redemptions have occurred sporadically, currently there is no active market
for these investments and we continue to hold them until liquidity resumes in the marketplace or we recover our investment by other means. 

        Due
to the risks of investments, we may not achieve expected returns or may realize losses on our investments which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations, liquidity or financial condition. 

 Deterioration of global market and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

        A slowdown of, or persistent weakness in, economic activity caused by a deterioration of global market and economic conditions could
adversely affect our business in the following ways, among others: conditions in the credit markets could impact the ability of our customers and their customers to obtain sufficient credit to support
their operations; the failure of our customers to fulfill their purchase obligations could result in increases in bad debts and impact our working capital; and the failure of certain key suppliers
could increase our exposure to disruptions in supply or to financial losses. We also may experience declining demand and falling prices for some of our products due to our customers' reluctance to
replenish inventories. The overall impact of a global economic downturn on us is difficult to predict, and our business could be materially adversely impacted. 

 Our substantial indebtedness, and covenant restrictions under our indebtedness, could adversely affect our operations and liquidity.  


        We historically operated with very limited indebtedness, but incurred substantial indebtedness in 2010 to finance the Terra
acquisition. Our increased indebtedness could have important consequences on our business in adversely affecting our operations and liquidity, and we may not be able to reduce our financial leverage
when we choose to do so. Our substantial indebtedness could, among other things: 



•make it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry
conditions, because any related decrease in revenues could cause us to not have sufficient cash flows from operations to make our scheduled debt payments;   
•cause us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service, reducing the availability of cash to fund
working capital and capital expenditures, research and development and other business activities; 

30




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



•cause us to be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and
to react to changes in market or industry conditions;   
•cause us to be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;   
•cause us to be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage;   
•result in a downgrade in our credit rating or that of our indebtedness which could increase the cost of further
borrowings; and   
•limit our ability to borrow additional money in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general
corporate purposes. 


        The
terms of our indebtedness include covenants restricting our ability to finance our future operations and capital needs and to engage in other business activities, including, among
other things, making investments and conducting asset dispositions. 

 If we are unable to comply with restrictions in the credit facilities, or debt incurred in replacement thereof, including the senior notes, the indebtedness thereunder could
be accelerated.  

        The agreements governing the credit facilities, and agreements governing debt we may incur in replacement thereof, including the senior
notes, impose or may impose restrictions on us and require certain payments of principal and interest over time. A failure to comply with these restrictions or to make these payments could lead to an
event of default that could result in an acceleration of the related indebtedness. We cannot make any assurances that our future operating results will be sufficient to ensure compliance with the
covenants in our agreements or to remedy any such default. In the event of an acceleration of this indebtedness, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments. 

 We may be unable to refinance our debt upon a change of control.  

        In the event that we experience an event constituting a change of control, we may need to refinance large amounts of debt. In
particular, a "change of control" (as defined for purposes of the credit facilities and the term loan facility) would constitute an event of default under the credit facilities. We may not be able to
replace the credit facilities on terms equal to or more favorable than the current terms if the commitments are terminated and the loans are repaid under the credit facilities upon an event of
default. The indenture governing the senior notes would require that, if a change of control (as defined for purposes of the indenture) occurs, we offer to buy back the senior notes for a price equal
to 101% of the debt securities' principal amount plus any interest that has accrued and remains unpaid as of the repurchase date. There can be no assurance that there would be sufficient funds
available for any repurchases that could be required by a change of control. 

 The loss of key members of our management and professional staff may adversely affect our business.  

        We believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our senior management and professional staff. The
loss of one or more key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to find, hire and retain needed key personnel in the future, our
results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

31






<A
NAME="page_dq43301_1_32"> 




































 
Table of Contents 


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.  

 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS  

        This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are not statements of historical fact and may involve a
number of risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These
statements may also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. We have used the words "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan,"
"predict," "project," and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements in this document. These forward-looking statements are made based on
our expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to
predict and many of which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. We do not
undertake any responsibility to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this document.
Additionally, we do not undertake any responsibility to provide updates regarding the occurrence of any unanticipated events which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by
the forward- looking statements contained in this document. 

        Important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Such
factors include, among others: 



•the volatile cost of natural gas in the areas where our production facilities are principally located;  
•the cyclical nature of our business and the agricultural sector;   
•the global commodity nature of our fertilizer products, the impact of global supply and demand on our selling prices, and
the intense global competition in the consolidating markets in which we operate;   
•conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry;   
•reliance on third party transportation providers;   
•our ability to integrate the businesses of CF Industries and Terra promptly and effectively and to achieve the cost
savings and synergies we anticipate from the Terra acquisition within the expected time frame or at all, and the potential for disruption from the Terra acquisition to make it more difficult for us to
maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers;   
•weather conditions;   
•risks associated with expansion of our business, including unanticipated adverse consequences and the significant
resources that could be required;   
•potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations;  
•our potential inability to obtain or maintain required permits and governmental approvals or to meet financial assurance
requirements;   
•future regulatory restrictions and requirements related to GHG emissions and climate change;   
•our inability to predict seasonal demand for our products accurately;   
•the impact of changing market conditions on our forward sales programs; 

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg43301a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



•risks involving derivatives and the effectiveness of our risk measurement and hedging activities;  
•the reliance of our operations on a limited number of key facilities and the significant risks and hazards against which
we may not be fully insured;   
•risks associated with joint ventures;   
•acts of terrorism and regulations to combat terrorism;   
•difficulties in securing the supply and delivery of raw materials we use and increases in their costs;  
•risks associated with international operations;   
•the concentration of our sales with certain large customers;   
•losses on our investments in securities;   
•deterioration of global market and economic conditions;   
•our substantial indebtedness and the limitations on our operations imposed by the terms of our indebtedness;  
•our ability to comply with the covenants under our indebtedness and to make payments under such indebtedness when due;  
•potential inability to refinance our indebtedness in connection with any change of control affecting us; and  
•loss of key members of management and professional staff. 

33










<A
NAME="page_ds43301_1_34"> 



































 




Table of Contents 


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.  


<A
NAME="ds43301_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments."> 
    ITEM 1B