ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.        

        Our business is subject to a number of risks. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually
occur, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to
be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

 Our business is dependent on the price of natural gas in North America, which is both relatively expensive and highly volatile.  

        Natural gas is the principal raw material used to produce nitrogen fertilizers. We use natural gas both as a chemical feedstock and as
a fuel to produce ammonia, urea and UAN. Because all of our nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities are located in the United States and Canada, the price of natural gas in North America directly
impacts a substantial portion of our operating expenses. Expenditures on natural gas comprised approximately 56% of the total cost of our nitrogen fertilizer sales in 2008 and a higher percentage of
cash production costs (total production costs less depreciation and amortization). 

        The
market price for natural gas in North America is significantly higher than the price of natural gas in certain other major fertilizer-producing regions. Many of our competitors
benefit from access to lower-priced natural gas through manufacturing facilities or interests in manufacturing facilities located in these regions or other regions with abundant supplies of natural
gas. Many of these facilities are export-oriented and their owners actively ship product to North America which is our primary market for nitrogen based fertilizers. 


        The
price of natural gas in North America is also highly volatile. During 2008, the median daily price at Henry Hub ranged from a low of $5.375 per MMBtu on December 24, 2008 to a
high of $13.32 per MMBtu on July 3, 2008. The volatility of the price of natural gas in North America compounds our disadvantage to some of our competitors. In addition to having access to
lower-priced natural gas, these competitors may also benefit from fixed-price natural gas contracts, some of which may be linked directly to the market price of the nitrogen fertilizer being
manufactured. Given the volatility of pricing and our dependence on North American natural gas, the price we pay for natural gas may be higher than certain other fertilizer-producing regions of the
world which may make it more difficult for us to compete against these producers. We may not be able to pass along the resulting higher operating costs to our customers in the form of higher product
prices. If market prices are below our cost of production due to the high cost of natural gas, we may shift our sourcing of nitrogen fertilizers from manufactured to purchased products. During late
2005 and early 2006, we curtailed production of fertilizers at our Donaldsonville complex for this reason. 

 Our business is cyclical, resulting in periods of industry oversupply during which our results of operations tend to be negatively impacted.  

        Historically, selling prices for our products have fluctuated in response to periodic changes in supply and demand conditions. Demand
is affected by population growth, changes in dietary habits, non-food usage of crops, such as the production of ethanol and other biofuels, and planted acreage and application rates, among
other things. Supply is affected by available capacity and operating rates, raw material costs, government policies and global trade. 

        Periods
of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in new plant investment and increased production, causing supply to exceed demand and
prices and capacity utilization to decline. In particular, new ammonia and urea capacity is expected to be added abroad in low-cost regions. Future growth in demand for fertilizer may not
be sufficient to alleviate any existing or future conditions of excess industry capacity. 

15




 

<A
HREF="#bg70101a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

        During
periods of industry oversupply, our results of operations tend to be affected negatively as the price at which we sell our products typically declines, resulting in possible
reduced profit margins, write-downs in the value of our inventory, lower production of our products and/or possible plant closures. 

 Our products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other fertilizer producers.  

        We are subject to intense price competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Fertilizers are global commodities, with little or
no product differentiation, and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product quality. We compete with a
number of domestic and foreign producers, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. Some of these competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from
fertilizer sales, which make them less vulnerable to industry downturns and better positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. 

        Recent
consolidation in the fertilizer industry has increased the resources of several of our competitors, and we expect consolidation among fertilizer producers to continue. In light of
this industry consolidation, our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through investments in new or existing operations or through
acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. In the future, we may not be able to find suitable assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. Even if we are able to
locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to acquire desired assets or enter into desired joint ventures or partnerships on economically acceptable terms. Our inability to compete
successfully could result in the loss of customers, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. 

        China
is the world's largest producer and consumer of fertilizers and is expected to continue expanding its fertilizer production capability. This expected increase in capacity could
adversely affect the balance between global supply and demand and may put downward pressure on global fertilizer prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 


        We
may face increased competition from Russian and Ukrainian urea, which is currently subject to antidumping duty orders that impose significant duties on urea imported into the United
States from these two countries. The antidumping orders have been in place since 1987, and there has been almost no urea imported into the United States from Russia or Ukraine since that time. Russia
and Ukraine currently have considerable capacity to produce urea and are the world's largest urea exporters. Producers in Russia, where the price for gas is well below its market value, benefit from
natural gas prices that are government controlled encouraging inefficient urea production and exports. Following a "sunset" review by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. International Trade
Commission (ITC), the antidumping orders were extended for an additional five-year period in November 2005. In June 2008, the ITC's determination was upheld by the U.S. Court of
International Trade. This order is not scheduled to undergo the next "sunset" review until December 2010. In addition, one large Russian producer, the EuroChem Group ("EuroChem"), requested the
Department of Commerce to review its sales and costs in order to establish a new antidumping duty rate specifically for them. In May 2008, the Department of Commerce issued a final decision in that
review and found that EuroChem's reviewed Russian urea exports were priced fairly. As a result, unless a future review finds the EuroChem's unfair pricing has resumed, no antidumping duties will apply
to its Russian urea exports to the United States. While all other Russian urea producers continue to be subject to antidumping duties, the elimination of antidumping duties on EuroChem's Russian urea
may result in a significant increase in EuroChem's urea exports to the United States. 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg70101a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

 Any decline in U.S. agricultural production or limitations on the use of our products for agricultural purposes could materially adversely affect the market for our
products.  

        Conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry can significantly impact our operating results. The U.S. agricultural industry can be
affected by a number of factors, including weather patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, the domestic and international demand for U.S. agricultural
products and U.S. and foreign policies regarding trade in agricultural products. 


        State
and federal governmental policies, including farm and biofuel subsidies and commodity support programs, as well as the prices of fertilizer products, may also directly or
indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of fertilizers for particular agricultural applications. For example, in recent years, ethanol production in the
U.S. has increased significantly due, in part, to federal legislation mandating greater use of renewable fuels. This increase in ethanol production has led to an increase in the amount of corn grown
in the U.S. and to increased fertilizer usage on both corn and other crops that have also benefited from improved farm economics. While the current Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) encourages continued
high levels of corn-based ethanol production, a growing "food versus fuel" debate and other factors have resulted in calls to reduce subsidies for ethanol, allow increased ethanol imports
and adopt temporary waivers to the current RFS levels, any of which could have an adverse effect on corn-based ethanol production, planted corn acreage and fertilizer demand. Developments
in crop technology, such as nitrogen fixation, the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants can assimilate, could also reduce the use of chemical fertilizers and adversely affect
the demand for our products. In addition, several states are currently considering limitations on the use and application of chemical fertilizers due to concerns about the impact of these products on
the environment. 


 Adverse weather conditions may decrease demand for our fertilizer products.  

        Weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing seasons may cause agricultural
customers to use different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the forms that we sell or may impede farmers from applying our fertilizers until the following growing
season, resulting in lower demand for our products. 

        Adverse
weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which lowers
the income of growers and could impair their ability to purchase fertilizer from our customers. 

 Our inability to predict future seasonal fertilizer demand accurately could result in excess inventory, potentially at costs in excess of market value, or product shortages.  

        The fertilizer business is seasonal. The strongest demand for our products occurs during the spring planting season, with a second
period of strong demand following the fall harvest. We and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during
the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is greatest for ammonia due to the short application season and the limited ability of our customers and their customers to store significant quantities of this
product. The seasonality of fertilizer demand results in our sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and our working capital requirements being the highest just prior to the
start of the spring season. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. 

        If
seasonal demand exceeds our projections, our customers may acquire products from our competitors, and our profitability will be negatively impacted. If seasonal demand is less than we
expect, we will be left with excess inventory that will have to be stored (in which case our results of operations will be negatively impacted by any related storage costs) and/or liquidated (in which
case the selling price may be below our production, procurement and storage costs). The risks associated with 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg70101a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



excess
inventory and product shortages are particularly acute with respect to our nitrogen fertilizer business because of the highly volatile cost of natural gas and nitrogen fertilizer prices and the
relatively brief periods during which farmers can apply nitrogen fertilizers. 

 Our customer base is concentrated, with certain large customers accounting for a substantial portion of our sales.  

        During 2008, three customers, CHS Inc., GROWMARK, Inc., and Gavilon Fertilizer LLC (previously ConAgra
International Fertilizer Company) made combined fertilizer purchases of approximately $1,526.7 million from us, representing approximately 39% of our total net sales. Because we depend on these
customers for a significant portion of our sales, we may have less flexibility than some of our competitors to diversify our customer base and seek more profitable direct sales to customers of our
significant customers. Any substantial change in purchasing decisions by any or all of these customers, whether due to actions by our competitors, our actions in expanding the direct sale of
fertilizers to the customers of our significant customers or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 A change in the use of the forward pricing program by our customers could increase our exposure to fluctuations in our profit margins and materially adversely affect our
operating results, liquidity and financial condition.  

        In mid-2003, we implemented a forward pricing program (FPP). Through our FPP, we offer our customers the opportunity to
purchase product on a forward basis at prices and delivery dates we propose. This improves our liquidity due to the cash payments received from customers in advance of shipment of the product, allows
us to improve our production scheduling, and planning, and the utilization of our manufacturing assets. 

        As
our customers enter into forward nitrogen fertilizer purchase contracts with us, we generally use natural gas derivatives or fixed price fertilizer purchase contracts to hedge against
changes in the price of natural gas, the largest and most volatile component of our supply cost. Fixing the selling prices of our products under our FPP, often months in advance of their ultimate
delivery to customers, typically causes our reported selling prices and margins to differ from spot market prices and margins available at the time of shipment. Additionally, the use of derivatives to
lock in the majority of our margins on FPP sales of nitrogen products can result in volatility in reported earnings due to the unrealized mark-to-market adjustments that occur
from changes in the value of the derivatives prior to the purchase of the natural gas. 

        We
are also exposed to losses in the event of default by derivative counterparties or to changes in our working capital and liquidity in the event of significant margin calls or losses
on the derivative portfolio. 

        Under
our FPP, customers generally make an initial cash down payment at the time of order and pay the remaining portion of the contract sales value in advance of the shipment date,
thereby significantly increasing our liquidity. Any cash payments received in advance from customers in connection with the FPP are reflected on our balance sheet as a current liability until the
related orders are shipped, which can take up to several months, or more. As of December 31, 2008, our current liability for customer advances related to unshipped orders under the FPP equaled
approximately 56% of our cash and cash equivalents. 

        We
believe the FPP is most appealing to our customers during periods of generally increasing prices for nitrogen fertilizers. Our customers may be less willing or even unwilling to
purchase products on a forward basis during periods of generally decreasing or stable prices or during periods of relatively high fertilizer prices. For example, in late 2005, a period during which
prices for nitrogen fertilizer products reached then record high levels, our orders under the FPP declined significantly as our 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg70101a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



customers
and their customers preferred to defer purchases of fertilizer products rather than commit to purchasing products at such high prices. Sales under the FPP were lower during 2006, a period of
relatively high fertilizer prices, compared to 2005, with forward sales of nitrogen fertilizer products declining from approximately 70% of our nitrogen fertilizer volume during 2005 to approximately
44% in 2006. Conversely, our customers may also be more willing to increase their use of FPP during periods of rapidly rising fertilizer prices as was the case in late 2007 and much of 2008. During
this period of rapidly increasing nitrogen fertilizer prices, forward sales of nitrogen fertilizer products increased under the program to approximately 66% of our nitrogen fertilizer volume in 2007
and 74% in 2008. In environments such as this, our profit margins may be lower than if we had not sold our nitrogen fertilizers under the FPP. 

        The
FPP is also less effective at reducing our exposure to fluctuations in our profit margins in circumstances where we purchase the fertilizer product from third parties for resale,
rather than manufacture the product at one of our facilities. For example, due to the high cost of natural gas in North America in late 2005, we decided to curtail production at our facilities and
increase our purchases of fertilizer products originating from off-shore, lower cost producers for resale to our customers. Because it is generally not feasible to purchase fertilizer
products from these third parties on a forward basis or match purchased quantities with specific order quantities, we may not be able to fix our profit margins effectively on fertilizer products that
we buy for resale under our FPP. One method we use to reduce our margin exposure on sales of purchased products under the program is to purchase the required fertilizer products in advance of the
specified delivery date. However, in such circumstances we may be required to buy and store the product sooner and in greater quantities than if produced, thereby reducing the liquidity benefits
otherwise associated with the FPP. It also may not be feasible to purchase sufficient quantities of fertilizer in advance of the specified delivery dates at known, acceptable prices, thereby reducing
or eliminating the expected margins associated with the forward sales. An increase in our purchases of fertilizer products for resale to our customers may increase our exposure to fluctuating profit
margins on the purchased products and could have a material adverse affect on our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. 


        We
also sell phosphate products through our FPP. In 2008, forward sales of phosphate fertilizer products represented approximately 61% of our phosphate fertilizer volume compared with
42% of our phosphate fertilizer volume in 2007 and 14% in 2006. Similar to nitrogen sales, phosphate sales under the FPP increased significantly in both 2007 and the first half of 2008 during a period
of rapidly rising fertilizer prices. Unlike our nitrogen fertilizer products where we effectively fix the cost of natural gas, we typically are unable to fix the cost of phosphate raw materials, such
as sulfur and ammonia, which are among the largest components of our phosphate fertilizer costs. As a result, we are typically exposed to margin risk on phosphate products sold on a forward basis. 


 Our operations are reliant on a limited number of key facilities that involve significant risks and hazards against which we may not be fully insured.  

        Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the manufacturing, transportation, storage and distribution of chemical fertilizers,
including ammonia, which is highly toxic and corrosive. These hazards include: explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other
transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and ruptures involving storage tanks, pipelines and rail cars; spills, discharges and releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; deliberate
sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; labor difficulties and other risks. Some of these hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or
destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and they may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. For example, over the
course of the past few years, we have been involved in numerous property damage and personal injury lawsuits arising out of a hydrogen explosion at our Donaldsonville nitrogen fertilizer 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg70101a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



complex
in 2000, in which three people died and several others were injured. We were also involved in personal injury lawsuits arising out of a train derailment near Minot, North Dakota in 2002 that
ruptured five tank cars, causing the formation of an ammonia cloud over the area, in which one person died and numerous others were injured. 

        Our
exposure to these types of risks is increased because of our reliance on a limited number of key facilities. Our nitrogen fertilizer operations are dependent on our nitrogen
fertilizer complex in Donaldsonville, Louisiana and our joint venture's nitrogen fertilizer complex in Medicine Hat, Alberta. Our phosphate fertilizer operations are dependent on our phosphate mine
and associated beneficiation plant in Hardee County, Florida; our phosphate fertilizer complex in Plant City, Florida; and our ammonia terminal in Tampa, Florida. Any suspension of operations at any
of these key facilities could adversely affect our ability to produce our products, fulfill our commitments under our forward pricing program, and could have a material adverse effect on our business.
In addition, all of these facilities, other than the complex in Medicine Hat, are located in regions of the United States that experience a relatively high level of hurricane activity. Such storms,
depending on their severity and location, have the potential not only to damage our facilities and disrupt our operations but also to adversely affect the shipping and distribution of our products and
the supply and price of natural gas and sulfur in the Gulf region. 

        We
maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. If we were to
incur significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to various
self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. As a result of market conditions, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for certain insurance policies
can increase substantially
and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. 

 We rely on third party providers of transportation services and equipment, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties beyond our control that may adversely affect our
operations.  

        We rely on railroad, trucking, pipeline, river barge and ocean vessel companies to transport raw materials to our manufacturing
facilities, to deliver finished products to our distribution system and to ship finished products to our customers. We also lease rail cars from rail car owners in order to ship raw materials and
finished products. These transportation operations, equipment, and services are subject to various hazards, including extreme weather conditions, work stoppages, delays, accidents such as spills and
derailments and other accidents and other operating hazards. 

        These
transportation operations, equipment and services are also subject to environmental, safety, and regulatory oversight. Due to concerns related to accidents, terrorism, or the
potential use of fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations affecting the transportation of our raw materials or finished products. 

        The
U.S. railroad industry is requesting regulations to shift certain liabilities to shippers for the movement of certain hazardous materials. This request applies to a number of
materials including anhydrous ammonia which we ship to and from our manufacturing and distribution facilities. These proposed regulations would require us to indemnify or provide supplemental
insurance to the railroads for damages above a stated threshold stemming from any release of the toxic materials, regardless of fault. Any transfer of the railroad's liability to us or requirement to
provide supplemental insurance could be a significant potential liability for us or could impact our ability to transport this product. 

        If
we are delayed or unable to ship our finished products or obtain raw materials as a result of these transportation companies' failure to operate properly, or if new and more stringent
regulatory requirements are implemented affecting transportation operations or equipment, or if there are 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg70101a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



significant
increases in the cost of these services or equipment, our sales revenues and/or cost of operations could be adversely affected. 

        New
regulations could also be implemented affecting the equipment used to ship our raw materials or finished products. The U.S. railroad industry is proposing higher ammonia tank car
performance standards which could require the modification or replacement of our leased tank car fleet. These higher standards could impact our ability to obtain an adequate supply of rail cars to
support our operations. 

 Expansion of our business may result in unanticipated adverse consequences.  

        We routinely consider possible expansions of our business, both domestically and in certain foreign locations. Acquisitions,
partnerships, joint ventures and other major investments require significant managerial resources, which may be diverted from our other activities and may impair the operation of our businesses. 


        International
acquisitions, partnerships, or joint ventures or the international expansion of our business involve additional risks and uncertainties,
including: 



•difficulties and costs of complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations;  
•unexpected changes in regulatory environments;   
•political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest;   
•nationalization of properties by foreign governments;   
•tax rates that may exceed those in the United States, and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements;  
•the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; and   
•the impact of exchange rate fluctuations between the United States dollar and foreign currencies in the countries where we
operate. 


        Furthermore,
acquisitions of businesses or facilities entail a number of additional risks, including: 



•problems with effective integration of operations;   
•the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships;   
•loss of key personnel of businesses we acquire or invest in;   
•exposure to unanticipated liabilities; and   
•difficulties in realizing efficiencies, synergies and cost savings. 


        These
risks of unanticipated adverse consequences from any expansion of our business through investments, acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures are increased due to the
significant capital and other resources that we may have to commit to any such expansion, which may not be recoverable if
the expansion initiative to which they were devoted is ultimately not implemented. We also face increased exposure to risks related to acquisitions and international operations because our experience
with acquisitions and international operations is limited. As a result of these and other factors, including general economic risk, we may not be able to realize our projected returns from any future
acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or other investments. 

 We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, as well as potential environmental liabilities, which may require us to make substantial
expenditures.  

        We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the United States and Canada, including laws and
regulations relating to land reclamation; the generation, treatment, storage, disposal and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; and the cleanup of 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg70101a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



hazardous
substance releases. These laws include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, RCRA, CERCLA, the Toxic Substances Control Act and various other federal, state, provincial, local and
international statutes. 

        As
a fertilizer company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, our business is inherently subject to spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances into the
environment. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous
substances into the environment. Given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are incurring currently, and are likely to incur periodically in the future, liabilities under CERCLA and other
environmental cleanup laws at our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. The costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may
be required to conduct or finance may be material. Additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or
release of hazardous substances into the environment. 

        Violations
of environmental and health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit
revocations and facility shutdowns. Environmental and health and safety laws change rapidly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we have not always been and may not always
be in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Additionally, future environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or more vigorous enforcement of
current laws and regulations, whether caused by violations of environmental and health and safety laws by us or other chemical fertilizer companies or otherwise, may require us to make substantial
expenditures. Additionally, our costs to comply with, or any liabilities under, these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. 

        See
Item 1. Business.—Environmental Health and Safety and Item 3. Legal Proceedings for additional information on our environmental and legal matters. 

 Our operations are dependent on numerous required permits, approvals and financial assurance requirements from governmental authorities.  

        We hold numerous environmental, mining and other governmental permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities.
Expansion of our operations is also predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed
material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility
and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

        In
certain cases, as a condition to procure such permits and approvals or as a condition to maintain existing approvals, we may be required to comply with financial assurance regulatory
requirements. The purpose of these requirements is to assure local, state or federal government agencies that we will have sufficient funds available for the ultimate closure, post-closure
care and/or reclamation at our facilities. In March 2006, we established an escrow account for the benefit of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection as a means of taking advantage of a
safe harbor provision in a 2005 amendment to Florida's regulations pertaining to financial assurance requirements for the closure of phosphogypsum stacks. Florida regulations also mandate payment of
certain mining taxes based on the quantity of ore mined and are subject to change based on local regulatory approvals. Additional financial assurance requirements or other increases in local mining
regulations and taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

        Florida
regulations require mining companies to demonstrate financial responsibility for wetland and other surface water mitigation measures in advance of any mining activities. If and
when we are able to expand our Hardee mining activities to areas not currently permitted, we will be required to 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg70101a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



demonstrate
financial responsibility for wetland and other surface water mitigation measures in advance of any mining activities. The demonstration of financial responsibility may be provided by
passage of financial tests. In the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial tests, alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements would require us to expend
funds for the purchase of bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies or similar instruments. It is possible that we will not be able to comply with either current or new financial assurance
regulations in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

        As
of December 31, 2008, the area permitted by local, state and federal authorities for mining at our Hardee phosphate complex had approximately 50 million tons of
recoverable phosphate rock reserves, which will meet our requirements, at current operating rates, for approximately 14 years. We have initiated the process of applying for authorization and
permits to expand the geographical area in which we can mine at our Hardee property. The expanded geographical area has an estimated 33 million tons of recoverable phosphate reserves, which
will allow us to conduct mining operations at our Hardee property for approximately nine additional years at current operating rates, assuming we secure the authorization and permits to mine in this
area. In Florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the authorization and permitting process for mining companies. A denial of the authorizations or permits to continue
and/or expand our mining operations at our Hardee property would prevent us from mining all of our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. 

        Likewise,
our phosphogypsum stack system at Plant City has sufficient capacity to meet our requirements through 2014 at current operating rates and is subject to regular renewals of our
operating permits. We have secured the local development authorization to increase the capacity of this stack system. Based on this authorization, estimated stack system capacity is expected to meet
our requirements until 2040 at current operating rates and is subject to securing the corresponding operating permits. This time frame is approximately eight years beyond our current estimate of
available phosphate rock reserves at our Hardee mine. A decision by the state or federal authorities to deny a renewal of our current permits or to deny operating permits for the expansion of our
stack system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

 Acts of terrorism could negatively affect our business.  

        Like other companies with major industrial facilities, our plants and ancillary facilities may be targets of terrorist activities. Many
of these plants and facilities store significant quantities of ammonia and other items that can be dangerous if mishandled. Any damage to infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation,
transmission and distribution facilities, or injury to employees, who could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism, may affect our operations. Any disruption of our ability to
produce or distribute our products could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse
impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, due to concerns related to terrorism or the potential use of certain fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal
governments could implement new regulations impacting the security of our plants, terminals and warehouses or the transportation and use of fertilizers. These regulations could result in higher
operating costs or limitations on the sale of our products and could result in significant unanticipated costs, lower revenues and/or reduced profit margins. 


 Our operations are dependent upon raw materials provided by third parties and an increase in the price or any delay or interruption in the delivery of these raw materials
may adversely affect our business.  

        We use natural gas, ammonia and sulfur as raw materials in the manufacture of fertilizers. We purchase these raw materials from
third-party suppliers. Prices for these raw materials can fluctuate 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg70101a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



significantly
due to changes in supply and demand. We may not be able to pass along to our customers increases in the costs of raw materials, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business. These products are transported by barge, truck, rail or pipeline to our facilities by third-party transportation providers or through the use of facilities owned by third parties. Any delays
or interruptions in the delivery of these key raw materials, including those caused by capacity constraints; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions,
vessel groundings and other transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and ruptures involving pipelines; deliberate sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; or
labor difficulties, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 Our investments in securities are subject to risks that may result in losses.  

        We invest our excess cash balances in several types of securities, including notes and bonds issued by governmental entities or
corporations, and money market funds. Securities issued by governmental agencies include those issued directly by the U.S. government, those issued by state, local or other governmental entities, and
those guaranteed by entities affiliated with governmental entities. Our investments are subject to fluctuations in both market value and yield based upon changes in market conditions, including
interest rates, liquidity, general economic and credit market conditions and conditions specific to the issuers. 

        At
December 31, 2008, we held investments of $177.8 million in tax-exempt auction rate securities. These securities were issued by various state and local
government entities and are all supported by student loans that were primarily issued under the Federal Family Loan Program. The underlying securities have stated maturities that range up to
39 years and are guaranteed by entities affiliated with governmental entities. In February 2008, the market for these securities began to show signs of illiquidity and auctions for several
securities failed on their scheduled auction dates. As a result, we continue to hold investments in certain of these securities. These investments, for which auctions have failed, are no longer
liquid, and we will not be able to access these funds until such time as an auction of these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. 

        Due
to the risks of investments, we may not achieve expected returns or may realize losses on our investments which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations, liquidity, or financial condition. 

 The loss of key members of our management and professional staff may adversely affect our business.  


        We believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our senior management and professional staff. The
loss of one or more key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to find, hire and retain needed key personnel in the future, our
results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

 Global market and economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.  

        A general slowdown in economic activity caused by the current recession could adversely affect our business in the following ways: a
worsening of the current credit markets could impact the ability of our customers and their customers to obtain sufficient credit to support their operations; the failure of our customers to fulfill
their purchase obligations could result in increases in bad debts and impact our working capital; the failure of certain key suppliers or derivative counterparties could increase our exposure to
disruptions in supply or to financial losses; and, the continuation of both the volatility of interest rates and negative market returns could result in increased expense and greater contributions to
our defined benefit plans. 

24






<A
NAME="page_dk70101_1_25"> 




































 
Table of Contents 


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.  

 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS  

        This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are not statements of historical fact and may involve a
number of risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These
statements may also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. We have used the words "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan,"
"predict," "project," and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements
are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are
difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements.
We do not undertake any responsibility to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report.
Additionally, we do not undertake any responsibility to provide updates regarding the occurrence of any unanticipated events which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by
the forward-looking statements contained in this report. 

        Important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. As
stated elsewhere in this filing, such factors include, among others: 



•the relatively expensive and volatile cost of North American natural gas;   
•the cyclical nature of our business and the agricultural sector;   
•changes in global fertilizer supply and demand and its impact on the selling price of our products;  
•the nature of our products as global commodities;   
•intense global competition in the consolidating markets in which we operate;   
•conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry;   
•weather conditions;   
•our inability to accurately predict seasonal demand for our products;   
•the concentration of our sales with certain large customers;   
•the impact of changing market conditions on our forward pricing program;   
•the reliance of our operations on a limited number of key facilities;   
•the significant risks and hazards against which we may not be fully insured;   
•reliance on third party transportation providers;   
•unanticipated adverse consequences related to the expansion of our business;   
•our inability to expand our business, including the significant resources that could be required;  
•potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations;  
•our inability to obtain or maintain required permits and governmental approvals or to meet financial assurance
requirements;   
•acts of terrorism;   
•difficulties in securing the supply and delivery of raw materials we use and increases in their costs;  
•losses on our investments in securities;   
•loss of key members of management and professional staff, and   
•recent deterioration of global market and economic conditions. 

25










<A
NAME="page_dm70101_1_26"> 



































 




Table of Contents 


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.  


<A
NAME="dm70101_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments."> 
    ITEM 1B