ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.        

        Our business is subject to a number of risks. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually
occur, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to
be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

 Our business is dependent on natural gas, which can be relatively expensive in North America and is subject to a high level of price volatility.  

        Natural gas is the principal raw material used to produce nitrogen fertilizers. We use natural gas both as a chemical feedstock and as
a fuel to produce ammonia, urea and UAN. Because all of our nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities are located in the United States and Canada, the price of natural gas in North America directly
impacts a substantial portion of our operating expenses. Expenditures on natural gas comprised approximately 52% of the total cost of our nitrogen fertilizer sales in 2009 and a higher percentage of
cash production costs (total production costs less depreciation and amortization). 

        The
market price for natural gas in North America is higher than the price of natural gas in certain other major fertilizer-producing regions. A number of our competitors benefit from
access to lower-priced natural gas through manufacturing facilities or interests in manufacturing facilities located in these regions or other regions with abundant supplies of natural gas. Many of
these facilities are export-oriented and their owners actively ship product to North America which is our primary market for nitrogen based fertilizers. 


        The
price of natural gas in North America is highly volatile. During 2009, the median daily price at Henry Hub exceeded $5.60 per MMBtu at the beginning of the year, then reached a low
of $1.85 per MMBtu on September 5, 2009, and returned to a high of $6.00 per MMBtu on December 30, 2009. The volatility of the price of natural gas in North America compounds our
disadvantage to some of our competitors. In addition to having access to lower-priced natural gas, these competitors may also benefit from fixed-price natural gas contracts, some of which may be
linked directly to the market price of the nitrogen fertilizer being manufactured. Given the volatility of pricing and our dependence on North American natural gas, the price we pay for natural gas in
the future may be higher than certain other fertilizer-producing regions of the world which may make it more difficult for us to compete against these producers. We may not be able to pass along the
resulting higher operating costs to our customers in the form of higher product prices. If market prices are below our cost of production due to the high cost of natural gas, we may shift our sourcing
of nitrogen fertilizers from manufactured to
purchased products. During late 2005 and early 2006, we curtailed production of fertilizers at our Donaldsonville complex for this reason. 

 Our business is cyclical, resulting in periods of industry oversupply during which our results of operations tend to be negatively impacted.  


        Historically, selling prices for our products have fluctuated in response to periodic changes in supply and demand conditions. Demand
is affected by population growth, changes in dietary habits, non-food usage of crops, such as the production of ethanol and other biofuels, and planted acreage and application rates, among
other things. Supply is affected by available capacity and operating rates, raw material costs and availability, government policies and global trade. 

        Periods
of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in new plant investment and increased production, causing supply to exceed demand and
prices and 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg72801a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



capacity
utilization to decline. In particular, new capacity is expected to be added abroad in low-cost regions. Future growth in demand for fertilizer may not be sufficient to alleviate
any existing or future conditions of excess industry capacity. 

        During
periods of industry oversupply, our results of operations tend to be affected negatively as the price at which we sell our products typically declines, resulting in possible
reduced profit margins, write-downs in the value of our inventory, lower production of our products and/or plant closures. 

 Our products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other fertilizer producers.  

        We are subject to intense price competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Fertilizers are global commodities, with little or
no product differentiation, and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product quality. We compete with a
number of domestic and foreign producers, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. Some of these competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from
fertilizer sales, which make them less vulnerable to industry downturns and better positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. 

        Consolidation
in the fertilizer industry has increased the resources of several of our competitors, and we expect consolidation among fertilizer producers to continue. In light of this
industry consolidation, our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through investments in new or existing operations or through
acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. In the future, we may not be able to find suitable assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. Even if we are able to
locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to acquire desired assets or enter into desired joint ventures or partnerships on economically acceptable terms. Any potential inability to compete
successfully could result in the loss of customers, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. 

        China
is the world's largest producer and consumer of fertilizers and is expected to continue expanding its fertilizer production capability. This expected increase in capacity could
adversely affect the balance between global supply and demand and may put downward pressure on global fertilizer prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

 A decline in U.S. agricultural production or limitations on the use of our products for agricultural purposes could materially adversely affect the market for our products.  

        Conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry can significantly impact our operating results. The U.S. agricultural industry can be
affected by a number of factors, including weather patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, the domestic and international demand for U.S. agricultural
products and U.S. and foreign policies regarding trade in agricultural products. 


        State
and federal governmental policies, including farm and biofuel subsidies and commodity support programs, as well as the prices of fertilizer products, may also directly or
indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of fertilizers for particular agricultural applications. For example, in recent years, ethanol production in the
U.S. has increased significantly due, in part, to federal legislation mandating greater use of renewable fuels. This increase in ethanol production has led to an increase in the amount of corn grown
in the U.S. and to increased fertilizer usage on both corn and other crops that have also benefited from improved farm economics. While the current Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) encourages continued
high levels of corn-based ethanol production, a growing "food versus fuel" debate and other factors have resulted in calls to reduce subsidies for ethanol, allow increased ethanol imports
and adopt temporary waivers to the 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg72801a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



current
RFS levels, any of which could have an adverse effect on corn-based ethanol production, planted corn acreage and fertilizer demand. Developments in crop technology, such as
nitrogen fixation, the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants can assimilate, could also reduce the use of chemical fertilizers and adversely affect the demand for our products.
In addition, several states are currently considering limitations on the use and application of chemical fertilizers due to concerns about the impact of these products on the environment. 

 Adverse weather conditions may decrease demand for our fertilizer products and increase the cost of natural gas.  

        Weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing seasons may cause agricultural
customers to use different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the forms that we sell or may impede farmers from applying our fertilizers until the following growing
season, resulting in lower demand for our products. 

        Adverse
weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which lowers
the income of growers and could impair their ability to purchase fertilizer from our customers. 

        Weather
conditions or, in certain cases, weather forecasts, can also dramatically affect the price of natural gas. Colder than normal winters and warmer than normal summers increase the
natural gas demand for residential use. Also, hurricanes affecting the gulf coastal states can severely impact the supply of natural gas and cause prices to rise sharply. 

 Our business is subject to risks involving derivatives, including credit risk and increasing government regulation.  

        In order to manage financial exposure to commodity price and market fluctuations, we utilize natural gas derivatives to hedge our
exposure to the price volatility of natural gas, the principal raw material used in the production of nitrogen based fertilizers. As a result, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk when our
derivatives are in a net asset position. The counterparties to our natural gas derivatives are either large oil and gas companies or large financial institutions. The credit and economic crisis that
started in 2008 impacted a number of financial institutions, some of which participate as counterparties to our natural gas swaps. We monitor the swap portfolio and credit quality of our
counterparties and adjust the level of activity we conduct with any one counterparty as necessary. We also manage the credit risk through the use of multiple counterparties, established credit limits,
cash collateral requirements and master netting arrangements. However, our liquidity could be negatively impacted by a counterparty default on derivative settlements. 

        The
natural gas derivatives that we currently use are over-the-counter (OTC) swap contracts. Federal legislation is under consideration that could add substantial
regulation to derivatives markets, with emphasis on OTC derivatives. Some of the most stringent legislation proposed would require most market participants to utilize a formal exchange for these
transactions. Utilizing a formal exchange requires gains or losses on derivatives to be settled daily with the exchange. Transacting derivatives over-the-counter rather than
through an exchange enables us to take advantage of favorable credit lines provided by our counterparties. Through these credit lines, we are not required to post collateral on our derivatives unless
their value surpasses an established threshold. The combined credit lines extended to us by our counterparties with which we have open derivative contracts currently exceed $100 million. If we
were forced to utilize an exchange, the cost of utilizing derivatives could increase, which would adversely affect our cost of operations and could negatively impact our liquidity. 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg72801a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

 Our inability to predict future seasonal fertilizer demand accurately could result in excess inventory, potentially at costs in excess of market value, or product shortages.  

        The fertilizer business is seasonal. The strongest demand for our products occurs during the spring planting season, with a second
period of strong demand following the fall harvest. We and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during
the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is greatest for ammonia due to the short application season and the limited ability of our customers and their customers to store significant quantities of this
product. The seasonality of fertilizer demand results in our sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and our working capital requirements being the highest just prior to the
start of the spring season. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. 


        If
seasonal demand exceeds our projections, our customers may acquire products from our competitors, and our profitability will be negatively impacted. If seasonal demand is less than we
expect, we will be left with excess inventory that will have to be stored (in which case our results of operations will be negatively impacted by any related storage costs) and/or liquidated (in which
case the selling price may be below our production, procurement and storage costs). The risks associated with excess inventory and product shortages are particularly acute with respect to our nitrogen
fertilizer business because of the highly volatile cost of natural gas and nitrogen fertilizer prices and the relatively brief periods during which farmers can apply nitrogen fertilizers. 


 Our customer base is concentrated, with certain large customers accounting for a substantial portion of our sales.  

        During 2009, three customers, CHS Inc., GROWMARK, Inc., and Gavilon Fertilizer LLC made combined fertilizer
purchases of approximately $1,121 million from us, representing approximately 43% of our total net sales. We have entered into a multi-year supply contract with CHS Inc. that
expires on June 30, 2010 and contracts with GROWMARK, Inc. and Gavilon Fertilizer LLC that both expire on June 30, 2013. CHS Inc. has informed us they do not intend
to renew the multi-year supply contract upon its expiration. Since becoming a public company in 2005, we have diversified our customer base. However, we continue to depend on these three
customers for a significant portion of our sales and may have less flexibility than some of our competitors to seek profitable sales to other customers. A substantial change in purchasing decisions by
any or all of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 A change in the use of the Forward Pricing Program by our customers could increase our exposure to fluctuations in our profit margins and materially adversely affect our
operating results, liquidity and financial condition.  

        In mid-2003, we implemented a Forward Pricing Program (FPP). Through our FPP, we offer our customers the opportunity to
purchase product on a forward basis at prices and delivery dates we propose. This improves our liquidity due to the cash payments received from customers in advance of shipment of the product, allows
us to improve our production scheduling, and planning, and the utilization of our manufacturing assets. 

        As
our customers enter into forward nitrogen fertilizer purchase contracts with us, we generally use natural gas derivatives or fixed price fertilizer purchase contracts to hedge against
changes in the price of natural gas, the largest and most volatile component of our supply cost. Fixing the selling prices of our products under our FPP, often months in advance of their ultimate
delivery to customers, typically causes our reported selling prices and margins to differ from spot market prices and margins 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg72801a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



available
at the time of shipment. Additionally, the use of derivatives to lock in the majority of our margins on FPP sales of nitrogen products can result in volatility in reported earnings due to
the unrealized mark-to-market adjustments that occur from changes in the value of the derivatives prior to the purchase of the natural gas. 


        Under
our FPP, customers generally make an initial cash down payment at the time of order and generally pay the remaining portion of the contract sales value in advance of the shipment
date, thereby significantly increasing our liquidity. Any cash payments received in advance from customers in connection with the FPP are reflected on our balance sheet as a current liability until
the related orders are shipped, which can take up to several months, or more. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our current liability for customer advances related to unshipped orders under the
FPP equaled approximately 18% and 56%, respectively, of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. 


        We
believe the FPP is most appealing to our customers during periods of generally increasing prices for nitrogen fertilizers. Our customers may be less willing or even unwilling to
purchase products on a forward basis during periods of generally decreasing or stable prices or during periods of relatively high fertilizer prices due to the expectation of lower prices in the future
or limited capital resources. In periods of rising fertilizer prices, selling our nitrogen fertilizers under the FPP may result in lower profit margins than if we had not used the FPP. Conversely, in
periods of declining fertilizer prices, selling our nitrogen fertilizers under the FPP may result in higher profit margins than if we had not used the FPP. 


        The
FPP is less effective at reducing our exposure to fluctuations in our profit margins in circumstances where we purchase the fertilizer product from third parties for resale, rather
than manufacture the product at one of our facilities. For example, during periods of high natural gas costs, we may decide to curtail production at our facilities and increase our purchases of
fertilizer products originating from off-shore, lower cost producers for resale to our customers. Because it is generally not feasible to purchase fertilizer products from these third
parties on a forward basis or match purchased quantities with specific order quantities, we may not be able to fix our profit margins effectively on fertilizer products that we buy for resale under
our FPP. One method we use to reduce our margin exposure on sales of purchased products under the program is to purchase the required fertilizer products in advance of the specified delivery date.
However, in such circumstances we may be required to buy and store the product sooner and in greater quantities than if produced, thereby reducing the liquidity benefits otherwise associated with the
FPP. It also may not be feasible to purchase sufficient quantities of fertilizer in advance of the specified delivery dates at known, acceptable prices. An increase in our purchases of fertilizer
products for resale to our customers may increase our exposure to fluctuating profit margins on the purchased products and could have a material adverse affect on our operating results, liquidity and
financial condition. 

        We
also sell phosphate products through our FPP. In 2009, forward sales of phosphate fertilizer products represented approximately 14% of our phosphate fertilizer volume compared to 61%
of our phosphate fertilizer volume in 2008. Similar to nitrogen sales, phosphate sales under the FPP increased significantly in both 2007 and the first half of 2008 during a period of rapidly rising
fertilizer prices. However, FPP sales decreased in 2009 when prices declined from their high in late 2008. Unlike our nitrogen fertilizer products where we have the opportunity to fix the cost of
natural gas, we typically are unable to fix the cost of phosphate raw materials, such as sulfur and ammonia, which are among the largest components of our phosphate fertilizer costs. As a result, we
are typically exposed to margin risk on phosphate products sold on a forward basis. 

20






<A
NAME="page_dm72801_1_21"> 




































 
Table of Contents 


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.  

 Our operations are reliant on a limited number of key facilities that involve significant risks and hazards against which we may not be fully insured.  

        Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the manufacturing, transportation, storage and distribution of chemical fertilizers,
including ammonia, which is highly toxic and corrosive. These hazards include: explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other
transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and ruptures involving storage tanks, pipelines and rail cars; spills, discharges and releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; deliberate
sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; labor difficulties and other risks. Some of these hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or
destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and they may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. For example, over the
course of the past few years, we have been involved in numerous property damage and personal injury lawsuits arising out of a hydrogen explosion at our Donaldsonville nitrogen fertilizer complex in
2000, in which three people died and several others were injured. In 2009, two independent truck drivers died as a result of the release of anhydrous ammonia during loading operations at our ammonia
terminal in Rosemount, Minnesota. 

        Our
exposure to these types of risks is increased because of our reliance on a limited number of key facilities. Our nitrogen fertilizer operations are dependent on our nitrogen
fertilizer complex in Donaldsonville, Louisiana and our joint venture's nitrogen fertilizer complex in Medicine Hat, Alberta. Our phosphate fertilizer operations are dependent on our phosphate mine
and associated beneficiation plant in Hardee County, Florida; our phosphate fertilizer complex in Plant City, Florida; and our ammonia terminal in Tampa, Florida. Any suspension of operations at any
of these key facilities could adversely affect our ability to produce our products and fulfill our commitments under our Forward Pricing Program, and could have a material adverse effect on our
business. In addition, all of these facilities, other than the complex in Medicine Hat, are located in regions of the United States that experience a relatively high level of hurricane activity. Such
storms, depending on their severity and location, have the potential not only to damage our facilities and disrupt our operations but also to adversely affect the shipping and distribution of our
products and the supply and price of natural gas and sulfur in the Gulf region. 

        We
maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. If we were to
incur significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to various
self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. As a result of market conditions, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for certain insurance policies
can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. 

 We rely on third party providers of transportation services and equipment, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties beyond our control that may adversely affect our
operations.  

        We rely on railroad, trucking, pipeline, river barge and ocean vessel companies to transport raw materials to our manufacturing
facilities, to deliver finished products to our distribution system and to ship finished products to our customers. We also lease rail cars from rail car owners in order to ship raw materials and
finished products. These transportation operations, equipment, and services are subject to various hazards, including extreme weather conditions, work stoppages, delays, accidents such as spills and
derailments and other accidents and other operating hazards. 

21





 

<A
HREF="#bg72801a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

        These
transportation operations, equipment and services are also subject to environmental, safety, and regulatory oversight. Due to concerns related to accidents, terrorism, or the
potential use of fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations affecting the transportation of our raw materials or finished products. 


        If
we are delayed or are unable to ship our finished products or obtain raw materials as a result of these transportation companies' failure to operate properly, or if new and more
stringent regulatory requirements are implemented affecting transportation operations or equipment, or if there are significant increases in the cost of these services or equipment, our sales revenues
and/or cost of operations could be adversely affected. 

        The
railroad industry has initiated various efforts to limit the railroads' potential liability stemming from the transportation of Toxic Inhalation Hazard (TIH) materials, such as the
anhydrous ammonia
we transport to and from our manufacturing and distribution facilities. These efforts by the railroads include (i) requesting that the Surface Transportation Board (STB) issue a policy
statement finding that it is reasonable for a railroad to require a shipper to indemnify the railroads and carry insurance for all liability above a certain amount arising from the transportation of
TIH materials; (ii) requesting that the STB approve an increase in the maximum reasonable rates that a railroad can charge for the transportation of TIH materials; and (iii) lobbying for
new legislation or regulations that would limit or eliminate the railroads' common carrier obligation to transport TIH materials. If the railroads were to succeed in one or more of these initiatives,
it could substantially and adversely affect our cost and potentially our ability to transport anhydrous ammonia and increase our liability for releases of our anhydrous ammonia while in the care,
custody and control of the railroads. 

        New
regulations could also be implemented affecting the equipment used to ship our raw materials or finished products. The U.S. railroad industry is also proposing higher ammonia tank
car performance standards which could require the modification or replacement of our leased tank car fleet. These higher standards could adversely impact our cost of operations and our ability to
obtain an adequate supply of rail cars to support our operations. 

 We are exposed to risks associated with our joint ventures.  

        We participate in joint ventures with third parties, including CFL and Keytrade. Our joint venture partners may have shared or majority
control over the operations of our joint ventures. As a result, our investments in joint ventures involve risks that are different from the risks involved in owning facilities and operations
independently. These risks include the possibility that our joint ventures or our partners: have economic or business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our business interests or
goals; are in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives; subject the joint venture to liabilities exceeding those contemplated; take actions that reduce
our return on investment; or take actions that harm our reputation or restrict our ability to run our business. 


        In
addition, we may become involved in disputes with our joint venture partners, which could lead to impasses or situations that could harm the joint venture, which could reduce our
revenues or increase our costs. 

 Expansion of our business may result in unanticipated adverse consequences.  

        We routinely consider possible expansions of our business, both domestically and in certain foreign locations. Acquisitions,
partnerships, joint ventures and other major
investments require significant managerial resources, which may be diverted from our other activities and may impair the operation of our businesses. 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg72801a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

        International
acquisitions, partnerships, or joint ventures or the international expansion of our business involve additional risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties and costs
of complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil
unrest; nationalization of properties by foreign governments; tax rates that may exceed those in the United States, and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements; the imposition of
tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations between the United States dollar and foreign currencies. 

        Furthermore,
acquisitions of businesses or facilities entail a number of additional risks, including: potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; problems
with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; loss of key personnel of businesses we acquire or invest in; exposure to
unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and challenges arising from the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. 

        These
risks of unanticipated adverse consequences from any expansion of our business through investments, acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures are increased due to the
significant capital and other resources that we may have to commit to any such expansion, which may not be recoverable if the expansion initiative to which they were devoted is ultimately not
implemented. We also face increased exposure to risks related to acquisitions and international operations because our experience with acquisitions and international operations is limited. As a result
of these and other factors, including general economic risk, we may not be able to realize our projected returns from any future acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or other investments. 

        Consolidation
in the fertilizer industry has increased the resources of several of our competitors, and we expect consolidation among fertilizer producers to continue. In light of this
industry consolidation, our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through investments in new or existing operations or through
acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. In the future, we may not be able to find suitable assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. Even if we are able to
locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to acquire desired assets or enter into desired joint ventures or partnerships on economically acceptable terms. Our inability to compete
successfully could result in the loss of customers, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. 

 Future regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions or other environmental discharges in the jurisdictions in which we operate could materially adversely affect our
operating results.  

        There have been increased initiatives by various parties to legislate and/or regulate carbon emissions, including carbon dioxide. The
Company's nitrogen operations produce substantial quantities of carbon dioxide in the chemical reactions that are necessary to produce anhydrous ammonia. 


        Pursuant
to the Kyoto Protocol, Canada has committed to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In the U.S., it is possible that GHG emissions will be limited through federal
legislation and/or regulatory action. In June 2009, the American Clean Energy and Security Act was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives. This legislation would establish an
economy-wide cap and trade system for carbon emissions commencing in 2012. Emitters of GHGs would be required to have allowances to offset their GHG emissions and, over time, the cap on
aggregate GHG emissions would decline. Similar legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate in September 2009. At this time, we cannot predict whether legislation imposing limits on GHG emissions in
the U.S. will be enacted. 

        The
Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) new Greenhouse Gas Mandatory Reporting Rule requires our facilities in Donaldsonville, Louisiana and Plant City, Florida to monitor emissions 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg72801a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



beginning
on January 1, 2010 and begin reporting the previous year's emissions annually starting in 2011. In addition to the GHG reporting rule, which directly affects our facilities, the EPA
has issued or proposed other regulations which could eventually impact us, including potentially applying the Clean Air Act to regulate GHGs. 

        Neither
of the state governments in Florida nor Louisiana, where our U.S. production facilities are located, has proposed regulations on GHG emissions. However, coalitions of states in
the Northeast, Midwest and West are working together to develop regional GHG emission reduction programs and several states (the most noteworthy being California) are developing regulatory programs on
their own. 

        Federal
and/or state regulation of GHGs may require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency, limit our output,
require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our costs for or limit the availability of energy, raw materials or transportation, or otherwise materially adversely affect our
operating results. In addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate are less stringent than in the U.S. or Canada, our competitors could gain
cost or other competitive advantages over us. 

        On
August 18, 2009, the EPA entered into a consent decree with environmental groups with respect to the promulgation of numeric criteria for nitrogen and phosphorous in surface
waters in Florida. The consent decree was approved by a federal district court judge on November 16, 2009. Pursuant to the consent decree, on January 26, 2010, the EPA proposed numeric
criteria (to replace narrative standards) for nitrogen and phosphorous in lakes and inland flowing waters. The EPA intends to adopt numeric water quality standards for these waters by October 2010.
Pursuant to the consent decree, the EPA is also required to propose and adopt numeric criteria for nitrogen and phosphorous in coastal and estuarine water bodies in 2011. The proposed numeric water
quality criteria are substantially lower than water quality criteria developed on a case-by-case basis. In addition, on September 30, 2009, the EPA proposed a Total
Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) for certain bodies of water within the Charlotte Harbor and Peace River watersheds. The proposed TMDL specifies a zero nutrient load from all National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) dischargers within these watersheds, including our NPDES discharge associated with our mining operation in Hardee County. 


        The
outcome of these regulatory initiatives could result in more stringent waste water discharge limits for our mining, manufacturing and distribution operations in Florida. The specific
limits imposed on wastewater discharges from our facilities will depend on the criteria that are adopted and the development of specific permit conditions that are consistent with these criteria. More
stringent limits could increase our costs and/or limit our operations and, therefore, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

 We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, as well as potential environmental liabilities, which may require us to make substantial
expenditures.  

        We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the United States and Canada, including laws and
regulations relating to land reclamation; the generation, treatment, storage, disposal and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; and the cleanup of hazardous substance releases. These laws
include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, RCRA, CERCLA, the Toxic Substances Control Act and various other federal, state, provincial, local and international statutes. 

24






<A
NAME="page_do72801_1_25"> 




































 
Table of Contents 


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.  

        As a fertilizer company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, our business is inherently subject to spills, discharges or other releases of
hazardous substances into the environment. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who have disposed of
or released hazardous substances into the environment. Given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are incurring currently, and are likely
to incur periodically in the future, liabilities under CERCLA and other environmental cleanup laws at our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal
locations. The costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance may be material. Additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including
personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous substances into the environment. 

        Violations
of environmental and health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit
revocations and facility shutdowns. Environmental and health and safety laws change rapidly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we have not always been and may not always
be in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Additionally, future environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or more vigorous enforcement of
current laws and regulations, whether caused by violations of environmental and health and safety laws by us or other chemical fertilizer companies or otherwise, may require us to make substantial
expenditures. Additionally, our costs to comply with, or any liabilities under, these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. 

        See
Item 1. Business.—Environmental Health and Safety and Item 3. Legal Proceedings for additional information on our environmental and legal matters. 

 Our operations are dependent on numerous required permits, approvals and financial assurance requirements from governmental authorities.  

        We hold numerous environmental, mining and other governmental permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities.
Expansion of our operations is also predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed
material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility
and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

        In
certain cases, as a condition to procure such permits and approvals or as a condition to maintain existing approvals, we may be required to comply with regulatory financial assurance
requirements. The purpose of these requirements is to assure local, state or federal government agencies that we will have sufficient funds available for the ultimate closure, post-closure
care and/or reclamation at our facilities. For example, in 2006, we established an escrow account for the benefit of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection as a means of complying with
Florida's regulations governing financial assurance related to closure and post-closure of phosphogypsum stacks. 

        We
may be subject to additional financial assurance requirements in connection with an enforcement initiative concerning compliance with the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)
at our Plant City, Florida phosphate fertilizer complex. A final settlement may require us to meet specified financial tests and/or contribute cash or other qualifying assets into a trust designated
to be used for closure, long-term maintenance, and monitoring costs for our phosphogypsum stacks, as well as any costs incurred to manage the water contained in the stack systems upon
closure. We are currently in negotiations with the United States Department of Justice and the United States Environmental Protection Agency on this aspect as well as other aspects of the enforcement
initiative. 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg72801a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 

        Florida
regulations also mandate payment of certain mining taxes based on the quantity of ore mined and are subject to change based on local regulatory approvals. Additional financial
assurance requirements or other increases in local mining regulations and taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

        Florida
regulations also require mining companies to demonstrate financial responsibility for wetland and other surface water mitigation measures in advance of any mining activities. If
and when we are able to expand our Hardee mining activities to areas not currently permitted, we will be required to demonstrate financial responsibility for wetland and other surface water mitigation
measures in advance of any mining activities. The demonstration of financial responsibility may be provided by passage of financial tests. In the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial
tests, alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements would require us to expend funds for the purchase of bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies or similar
instruments. It is possible that we will not be able to comply with either current or new financial assurance regulations in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations. 

        As
of December 31, 2009, the area permitted by local, state and federal authorities for mining at our Hardee phosphate complex had approximately 46 million tons of
recoverable phosphate rock reserves, which will meet our requirements, at current operating rates, for approximately 13 years. We have initiated the process of applying for authorization and
permits to expand the geographical area in which we can mine at our Hardee property. The expanded geographical area has an estimated 34 million tons of recoverable phosphate reserves, which
will allow us to conduct mining operations at our Hardee property for approximately ten additional years at current operating rates, assuming we secure the authorization and permits to mine in this
area. In Florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the authorization and permitting process for mining companies. A denial of the authorizations or permits to continue
and/or expand our mining operations at our Hardee property would prevent us from mining all of our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. 

        Likewise,
our phosphogypsum stack system at Plant City has sufficient capacity to meet our requirements through 2014 at current operating rates and is subject to regular renewals of our
operating permits. We have secured the local development authorization to increase the capacity of this stack system. Based on this authorization, estimated stack system capacity is expected to meet
our requirements until 2040 at current operating rates and is subject to securing the corresponding operating permits. This time frame is approximately eight years beyond our current estimate of
available phosphate rock reserves at our Hardee mine. A decision by the state or federal authorities to deny a renewal of our current permits or to deny operating permits for the expansion of our
stack system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

 Acts of terrorism could negatively affect our business.  

        Like other companies with major industrial facilities, our plants and ancillary facilities may be targets of terrorist activities. Many
of these plants and facilities store significant quantities of ammonia and other items that can be dangerous if mishandled. Any damage to infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation,
transmission and distribution facilities, or injury to employees, who could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism, may affect our operations. Any disruption of our ability to
produce or distribute our products could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse
impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, due to concerns related to 

26




 

<A
HREF="#bg72801a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



terrorism
or the potential use of certain fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations impacting the security of our plants, terminals and warehouses
or the transportation and use of fertilizers. These regulations could result in higher operating costs or limitations on the sale of our products and could result in significant unanticipated costs,
lower revenues and/or reduced profit margins. 

 Our operations are dependent upon raw materials provided by third parties and an increase in the price or any delay or interruption in the delivery of these raw materials
may adversely affect our business.  

        We use natural gas, ammonia and sulfur as raw materials in the manufacture of fertilizers. We purchase these raw materials from
third-party suppliers. Prices for these raw materials can fluctuate significantly due to changes in supply and demand. We may not be able to pass along to our customers increases in the costs of raw
materials, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. These products are transported by barge, truck, rail or pipeline to our
facilities by third-party transportation providers or through the use of facilities owned by third parties. Any delays or interruptions in the delivery of these key raw materials, including those
caused by capacity constraints; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and
ruptures involving pipelines; deliberate sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; or labor difficulties, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 Our investments in securities are subject to risks that may result in losses.  

        We invest in several types of securities, including notes and bonds issued by governmental entities or corporations and money market
funds. Securities issued by governmental agencies include those issued directly by the U.S. government, those issued by state, local or other governmental entities, and those guaranteed by entities
affiliated with governmental entities. Our investments are subject to fluctuations in both market value and yield based upon changes in market conditions, including interest rates, liquidity, general
economic and credit market conditions and conditions specific to the issuers. 

        At
December 31, 2009, we held investments of $133.9 million in tax-exempt auction rate securities. These securities were issued by various state and local
government entities and are all supported by student loans that were primarily issued under the Federal Family Loan Program. These auction rate securities have stated maturities that range up to
38 years and the underlying securities are guaranteed by entities affiliated with governmental entities. In February 2008, the market for these securities began to show signs of illiquidity and
auctions for several securities failed on their scheduled auction dates. As a result, we continue to hold investments in certain of these securities. These investments, for which auctions have failed,
are no longer liquid, and we will not be able to access these funds until such time as an auction of these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. 

        Due
to the risks of investments, we may not achieve expected returns or may realize losses on our investments which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations, liquidity, or financial condition. 

 The loss of key members of our management and professional staff may adversely affect our business.  


        We believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our senior management and professional staff. The
loss of one or more key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to find, hire and retain 

27




 


<A
HREF="#bg72801a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



needed
key personnel in the future, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

 Deterioration of global market and economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.  

        A continued slowdown of economic activity caused by the current recession could adversely affect our business in the following ways: a
worsening of the current credit markets could impact the ability of our customers and their customers to obtain sufficient credit to support their operations; the failure of our customers to fulfill
their purchase obligations could result in increases in bad debts and impact our working capital; the failure of certain key suppliers or derivative counterparties could increase our exposure to
disruptions in supply or to financial losses; and the continuation of both the volatility of interest rates and negative market returns could result in increased expense and greater contributions to
our defined benefit plans. 

28






<A
NAME="page_dq72801_1_29"> 









































Table of Contents 


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.  

<A
NAME="dq72801_forward_looking_statements"> 
    FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS        

        This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are not statements of historical fact and may involve a
number of risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These
statements may also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. We have used the words "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan,"
"predict," "project," and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements in this document. These forward-looking statements are made based on
our expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to
predict and many of which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. We do not
undertake any responsibility to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this document.
Additionally, we do not undertake any responsibility to provide updates regarding the occurrence of any unanticipated events which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by
the forward-looking statements contained in this document. 

        Important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Such
factors include, among others: 



•the relatively expensive and volatile cost of North American natural gas;   
•the cyclical nature of our business and the agricultural sector;   
•the global commodity nature of our fertilizer products, the impact of global supply and demand on our selling prices, and
the intense global competition in the consolidating markets in which we operate;   
•conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry;   
•weather conditions;   
•risks involving derivatives;   
•our inability to accurately predict seasonal demand for our products;   
•the concentration of our sales with certain large customers;   
•the impact of changing market conditions on our Forward Pricing Program;   
•the reliance of our operations on a limited number of key facilities and the significant risks and hazards against which
we may not be fully insured;   
•reliance on third party transportation providers;   
•risks associated with joint ventures;   
•risks associated with expansion of our business, including unanticipated adverse consequences and the significant
resources that could be required;   
•future regulatory restrictions and requirements related to greenhouse gas emissions, climate change or other environmental
requirements;   
•potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations; 

29




 

<A
HREF="#bg72801a_main_toc">Table of Contents


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. 



•our potential inability to obtain or maintain required permits and governmental approvals or to meet financial assurance
requirements;   
•acts of terrorism;   
•difficulties in securing the supply and delivery of raw materials we use and increases in their costs;  
•losses on our investments in securities;   
•loss of key members of management and professional staff; and   
•the international credit crisis and global recession 

30










<A
NAME="page_ds72801_1_31"> 



































 




Table of Contents 


CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.  


<A
NAME="ds72801_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments."> 
    ITEM 1B