.     Risk Factors.Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We have a significant amount of debt and may incur significant additional debt, including secured debt, in the future, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes in our business.We have a significant amount of debt and may (subject to applicable restrictions in our debt instruments) incur additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2011, our total principal amount of debt was approximately $12.8 billion.Because of our significant indebtedness, we may not be able to raise additional capital at reasonable rates, or at all.  Our significant amount of debt could have other important consequences, such as:•make us vulnerable to interest rate increases, because approximately 18% of our borrowings are, and may continue to be, subject to variable rates of interest;•expose us to increased interest expense to the extent we refinance existing debt, particularly our bank debt, with higher cost debt;•require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operating activities to make payments on our debt, reducing our funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate expenses;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the cable and telecommunications industries, 16and the economy at large;•place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt; and•adversely affect our relationship with customers and suppliers.If current debt amounts increase, the related risks that we now face will intensify.The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity.Our credit facilities and the indentures governing our debt contain a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, our liquidity, and our results of operations.  These covenants restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to:•incur additional debt;•repurchase or redeem equity interests and debt;•issue equity;•make certain investments or acquisitions;•pay dividends or make other distributions;•dispose of assets or merge;•enter into related party transactions; and •grant liens and pledge assets.Additionally, the Charter Operating credit facilities require Charter Operating to comply with a maximum total leverage covenant and a maximum first lien leverage covenant.  The breach of any covenants or obligations in our indentures or credit facilities, not otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness.  In addition, the secured lenders under the Charter Operating credit facilities, the holders of the Charter Operating senior second-lien notes, and the secured lenders under the CCO Holdings credit facility could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interests in our subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors.      We depend on generating (and having available to the applicable obligor) sufficient cash flow to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures, and ongoing operations.  We are dependent on our cash on hand and free cash flow to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures and ongoing operations.Our ability to service our debt and to fund our planned capital expenditures and ongoing operations will depend on our ability to continue to generate cash flow and our access (by dividend or otherwise) to additional liquidity sources at the applicable obligor.  Our ability to continue to generate cash flow is dependent on many factors, including:•our ability to sustain and grow revenues and free cash flow by offering video, Internet, telephone, advertising and other services to residential and commercial customers, to adequately meet the customer experience demands in our markets and to maintain and grow our customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive competition, the need for innovation and the related capital expenditures and the difficult economic conditions in the United States;•the development and deployment of new products and technologies;•the impact of competition from other market participants, including but not limited to incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite operators, wireless broadband and telephone providers and DSL providers and competition from video provided over the Internet;•general business conditions, economic uncertainty or downturn, high unemployment levels and the level of activity in the housing sector; •our ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to raise prices to offset, in whole or in part, the effects of higher programming costs (including retransmission consents); and•the effects of governmental regulation on our business.Some of these factors are beyond our control.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or we are unable to access additional liquidity sources, we may not be able to service and repay our debt, operate our business, respond to competitive challenges, or fund our other liquidity and capital needs.  17Restrictions in our subsidiaries' debt instruments and under applicable law limit their ability to provide funds to us and our subsidiaries that are debt issuers.Our primary assets are our equity interests in our subsidiaries.  Our operating subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and are not obligated to make funds available to their debt issuer holding companies for payments on our notes or other obligations in the form of loans, distributions, or otherwise.  Charter Operating’s and CCO Holdings’ ability to make distributions to us or the applicable debt issuers to service debt obligations is subject to their compliance with the terms of their credit facilities and indentures, and restrictions under applicable law.  See “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Limitations on Distributions” and “— Summary of Restrictive Covenants of Our Notes – Restrictions on Distributions.”  Under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (the “Act”), our subsidiaries may only make distributions if the relevant entity has “surplus” as defined in the Act.  Under fraudulent transfer laws, our subsidiaries may not pay dividends if the relevant entity is insolvent or is rendered insolvent thereby.  The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred.  Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if:•the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all its assets;•the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or•it could not pay its debts as they became due.While we believe that our relevant subsidiaries currently have surplus and are not insolvent, these subsidiaries may become insolvent in the future.  Our direct or indirect subsidiaries include the borrowers under the CCO Holdings credit facility and the borrowers and guarantors under the Charter Operating credit facilities.  Charter Operating is also an obligor, and its subsidiaries are guarantors under senior second-lien notes, and CCO Holdings is an obligor under its senior notes.  As of December 31, 2011, our total principal amount of debt was approximately $12.8 billion.In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation, or dissolution of one or more of our subsidiaries, that subsidiary's assets would first be applied to satisfy its own obligations, and following such payments, such subsidiary may not have sufficient assets remaining to make payments to its parent company as an equity holder or otherwise. In that event:•the lenders under CCO Holdings’ credit facility and Charter Operating's credit facilities and senior second-lien notes, whose interests are secured by substantially all of our operating assets, and all holders of other debt of CCO Holdings and Charter Operating, will have the right to be paid in full before us from any of our subsidiaries' assets; and•Charter and CCH I, the holders of preferred membership interests in our subsidiary, CC VIII, would have a claim on a portion of CC VIII’s assets that may reduce the amounts available for repayment to holders of our outstanding notes. All of our outstanding debt is subject to change of control provisions.  We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness following a change of control, which would place us in default under the applicable debt instruments.We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under our notes and our credit facilities following a change of control.  Under the indentures governing our notes, upon the occurrence of specified change of control events, the applicable note issuer is required to offer to repurchase all of its outstanding notes.  However, we may not have sufficient access to funds at the time of the change of control event to make the required repurchase of the applicable notes, and all of the notes issuers are limited in their ability to make distributions or other payments to their respective parent company to fund any required repurchase.  In addition, a change of control under the Charter Operating credit facilities would result in a default under those credit facilities.  Because such credit facilities and our subsidiaries’ notes are obligations of our subsidiaries, the credit facilities and our subsidiaries’ notes would have to be repaid by our subsidiaries before their assets could be available to their parent companies to repurchase their notes.  Any failure to make or complete a change of control offer would place the applicable note issuer or borrower in default under its notes.  The failure of our subsidiaries to make a change of control offer or repay the amounts accelerated under their notes and credit facilities would place them in default.18Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a very competitive business environment, which affects our ability to attract and retain customers and can adversely affect our business and operations. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has become more so in recent years.  In some instances, we compete against companies with fewer regulatory burdens, better access to financing, greater personnel resources, greater resources for marketing, greater and more favorable brand name recognition, and long-established relationships with regulatory authorities and customers.  Increasing consolidation in the cable industry and the repeal of certain ownership rules have provided additional benefits to certain of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale.  We could also face additional competition from multi-channel video providers if they began distributing video over the Internet to customers residing outside their current territories.Our principal competitors for video services throughout our territory are DBS providers.  The two largest DBS providers are DirecTV and DISH Network.  Competition from DBS, including intensive marketing efforts with aggressive pricing, exclusive programming and increased HD broadcasting has had an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers. DBS companies have also expanded their activities in the MDU market.  The cable industry, including us, has lost a significant number of video customers to DBS competition, and we face serious challenges in this area in the future.  Telephone companies, including two major telephone companies, AT&T and Verizon, offer video and other services in competition with us, and we expect they will increasingly do so in the future.  Upgraded portions of these networks carry two-way video, data service offerings and provide digital voice services similar to ours.  In the case of Verizon, high-speed data services offer speeds as high as or higher than ours.  In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies.  Based on our internal estimates, we believe that AT&T and Verizon are offering video services in areas serving approximately 31% to 34% and 3% to 4%, respectively, of our estimated homes passed as of December 31, 2011, and we have experienced customer losses in these areas.  AT&T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to capture more of the MDU market.  Additional upgrades and product launches are expected in markets in which we operate.  With respect to our Internet access services, we face competition, including intensive marketing efforts and aggressive pricing, from telephone companies and other providers of DSL.  DSL service competes with our Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than our Internet services, although often at speeds lower than the speeds we offer.  However one DSL provider, Century Link, offers DSL services in approximately 12% of our homes passed with speeds comparable to our lower speed tiers.  In addition, in many of our markets, DSL providers have entered into co-marketing arrangements with DBS providers to offer service bundles combining video services provided by a DBS provider with DSL and traditional telephone and wireless services offered by the telephone companies and their affiliates.  These service bundles offer customers similar pricing and convenience advantages as our bundles.  Continued growth in our residential telephone business faces risks.  The competitive landscape for residential and commercial telephone services is intense; we face competition from providers of Internet telephone services, as well as incumbent telephone companies.  Further, we face increasing competition for residential telephone services as more consumers in the United States are replacing traditional telephone service with wireless service.   The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an overbuild.  Overbuilds could adversely affect our growth, financial condition, and results of operations, by creating or increasing competition.  Based on internal estimates and excluding telephone companies, as of December 31, 2011, we are aware of traditional overbuild situations impacting approximately 8% to 9% of our estimated homes passed, and potential traditional overbuild situations in areas servicing approximately an additional 2% of our estimated homes passed.  Additional overbuild situations may occur in other systems. In order to attract new customers, from time to time we make promotional offers, including offers of temporarily reduced price or free service.  These promotional programs result in significant advertising, programming and operating expenses, and also may require us to make capital expenditures to acquire and install customer premise equipment.  Customers who subscribe to our services as a result of these offerings may not remain customers following the end of the promotional period.  A failure to retain customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mergers, joint ventures, and alliances among franchised, wireless, or private cable operators, DBS providers, local exchange carriers, and others, may provide additional benefits to some of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale, or the ability to provide multiple services in direct competition with us. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, our business is subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. Our business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, print media, 19and the Internet.  Further, due to consumer electronic innovations, content owners are allowing consumers to watch Internet-delivered content on televisions, personal computers, tablets, gaming boxes connected to televisions and mobile devices, some without charging a fee to access the content.  Technological advancements, such as video-on-demand, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers, and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could also negatively impact advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from us, as well as the price they are willing to pay for advertising.  If we do not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, our competitive position could deteriorate, and our financial results could suffer. Our services may not allow us to compete effectively.  Additionally, as we expand our offerings to introduce new and enhanced services, we will be subject to competition from other providers of the services we offer.  Competition may reduce our expected growth of future cash flows which may contribute to future impairments of our franchises and goodwill.  Economic conditions in the United States may adversely impact the growth of our business.We believe that continued competition and the weakened economic conditions in the United States, including the housing market and relatively high unemployment levels, have adversely affected consumer demand for our services, particularly basic video. These conditions combined with our disciplined customer acquisition strategy contributed to video revenues declining 2% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the corresponding period in 2010, while we continued to grow our commercial, Internet and telephone businesses. We believe competition from wireless and economic factors have contributed to an increase in the number of homes that replace their traditional telephone service with wireless service thereby impacting the growth of our telephone business. If these conditions do not improve, we believe the growth of our business and results of operations will be further adversely affected which may contribute to future impairments of our franchises and goodwill.We face risks inherent in our commercial business.  We may encounter unforeseen difficulties as we increase the scale of our service offerings to businesses.  We sell Internet access, data networking and fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video and business telephone services to businesses and have increased our focus on growing this business.  In order to grow our commercial business, we expect to increase expenditures on technology, equipment and personnel focused on the commercial business.  Commercial business customers often require service level agreements and generally have heightened customer expectations for reliability of services.  If our efforts to build the infrastructure to scale the commercial business are not successful, the growth of our commercial services business would be limited.  We depend on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties for the growth of our commercial business.  As a result, our ability to implement changes as the services grow may be limited.  If we are unable to meet these service level requirements or expectations, our commercial business could be adversely affected.  Finally, we expect advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, we are unable to predict the effect that ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on our telephone and commercial businesses and operations.Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers, vendors and third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition.We are exposed to risks associated with the potential financial instability of our customers, many of whom have been adversely affected by the general economic downturn.  Dramatic declines in the housing market, including falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, together with significant increases in unemployment, have severely affected consumer confidence and caused increased delinquencies or cancellations by our customers or lead to unfavorable changes in the mix of products purchased.  These events have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition.In addition, we are susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide products and services or to which we outsource certain functions.  The same economic conditions that may affect our customers, as well as volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, also could adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in output or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely.  Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operation and financial condition.20We may not have the ability to reduce the high growth rates of, or pass on to our customers, our increasing programming costs, which would adversely affect our cash flow and operating margins.Programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, our largest operating expense item.  In recent years, the cable industry has experienced a rapid escalation in the cost of programming.  We expect programming costs to continue to increase because of a variety of factors including amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual increases imposed by programmers with additional selling power as a result of media consolidation, additional programming, including new sports services and non-linear programming for on-line and OnDemand platforms.  The inability to fully pass these programming cost increases on to our customers has had an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with the video product.  We have programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before the end of 2012.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms.  To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable we may be forced to remove such programming channels from our line-up, which could result in a further loss of customers.Increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent are likely to further increase our programming costs.  Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime.  When a station opts for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission.  In some cases, we carry stations under short-term arrangements while we attempt to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements.  If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require us to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period.  Any loss of stations could make our video service less attractive to customers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue.  In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have an interest.  Carriage of these other services, as well as increased fees for retransmission rights, may increase our programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity we have available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.Our inability to respond to technological developments and meet customer demand for new products and services could limit our ability to compete effectively.Our business is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services, some of which are bandwidth-intensive.  We may not be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, or anticipate the demand of our customers for products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth.  Our inability to maintain and expand our upgraded systems and provide advanced services in a timely manner, or to anticipate the demands of the marketplace, could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers.  Consequently, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially.We depend on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors; thus, if we are unable to procure the necessary services, equipment, software or licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, our ability to offer services could be impaired, and our growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors to supply some of the services, hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of our services.  We obtain these materials from a limited number of vendors, some of which do not have a long operating history or which may not be able to continue to supply the equipment and services we desire.  Some of our hardware, software and operational support vendors, and service providers represent our sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity.  If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment or services we need in a timely manner, at our specifications and at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay our ability to serve our customers.  These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract customers, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, financial results and financial condition.  A limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead to less product innovation and higher costs.  For these reasons, we generally endeavor to establish alternative vendors for materials we consider critical, but may not be able to establish these relationships or be able to obtain required materials on favorable terms.  In that regard, we currently purchase set-top boxes from a limited number of vendors, because each of our cable systems use one or two proprietary conditional access security schemes, which allows us to regulate subscriber access to some services, such as premium channels.  We believe that the proprietary nature of these conditional access schemes makes other manufacturers reluctant to produce set-top boxes.  Future innovation in set-top boxes may be restricted until these issues are resolved.  In addition, we 21believe that the general lack of compatibility among set-top box operating systems has slowed the industry’s development and deployment of digital set-top box applications.  We depend on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in our operating activities. Any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to continue to use certain intellectual property, which could result in discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm, our incurring substantial monetary liability or being enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question.Malicious and abusive activities could disrupt our networks, information systems or properties and could impair our operating activities.Network and information systems technologies are critical to our operating activities, as well as our customers' access to our services.  Malicious and abusive activities, such as the dissemination of computer viruses, worms, and other destructive or disruptive software, computer hackings, social engineering, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering and other malicious activities have become more common in industry overall.  If directed at us or technologies upon which we depend, these activities could have adverse consequences on our network and our customers, including degradation of service, excessive call volume to call centers, and damage to our or our customers' equipment and data.  Further, these activities could result in security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data.  If a significant incident were to occur, it could damage our reputation and credibility, lead to customer dissatisfaction and, ultimately, loss of customers or revenue, in addition to increased costs to service our customers and protect our network. These events also could result in large expenditures to repair or replace the damaged properties, networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future.   Any significant loss of Internet customers or revenue, or significant increase in costs of serving those customers, could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations.For tax purposes, we experienced a deemed ownership change upon emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy, resulting in an annual limitation on our ability to use our existing tax loss carryforwards.  We could experience another deemed ownership change in the future that could further limit our ability to use our tax loss carryforwards.As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $7.4 billion of federal tax net operating and capital loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $2.6 billion, expiring in the years 2014 through 2031.  These losses resulted from the operations of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, we had state tax net operating and capital loss carryforwards, resulting in a gross deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately $252 million, generally expiring in years 2012 through 2031.  Due to uncertainties in projected future taxable income, valuation allowances have been established against the gross deferred tax assets for book accounting purposes, except for future taxable income that will result from the reversal of existing temporary differences for which deferred tax liabilities are recognized.  Such tax loss carryforwards can accumulate and be used to offset our future taxable income.  The consummation of the Plan generated an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”).  In general, an “ownership change” occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by “5-percent stockholders” (within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by such “5-percent stockholders” at any time over the preceding three years. As a result, Charter is subject to an annual limitation on the use of our loss carryforwards which existed at November 30, 2009.  Further, our loss carryforwards have been reduced by the amount of the cancellation of debt income resulting from the Plan that was allocable to Charter.  The limitation on our ability to use our loss carryforwards, in conjunction with the loss carryforward expiration provisions, could reduce our ability to use a portion of our loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income which could result in us being required to make material cash tax payments.  Our ability to make such income tax payments, if any, will depend at such time on our liquidity or our ability to raise additional capital, and/or on receipt of payments or distributions from Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries.   If Charter were to experience a second ownership change in the future (as a result of purchases and sales of stock by Charter’s 5-percent stockholders, new issuances or redemptions of Charter’s stock, certain acquisitions of Charter’s stock and issuances, redemptions, sales or other dispositions or acquisitions of interests in Charter’s 5-percent stockholders), Charter’s ability to use our loss carryforwards could become subject to further limitations.  Our common stock is subject to certain transfer restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation.  These restrictions, which are designed to minimize the likelihood of an ownership change occurring and thereby preserve our ability to utilize our loss carryforwards, are not currently operative 22but could become operative in the future if certain events occur and the restrictions are imposed by Charter’s board of directors.  However, there can be no assurance that Charter’s board of directors would choose to impose these restrictions or that such restrictions, if imposed, would prevent an ownership change from occurring.If we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to manage our business could be adversely affected.Our operational results have depended, and our future results will depend, upon the retention and continued performance of our management team. On October 11, 2011, we announced that Michael J. Lovett, our President and Chief Executive Officer, would be resigning from his positions at Charter following a transition period. On February 13, 2012, Thomas M. Rutledge became President and Chief Executive Officer of Charter.  Over the last twelve months, we have experienced other significant changes in our management team and may experience additional changes in the future. Our ability to hire new key employees for management positions could be impacted adversely by the competitive environment for management talent in the telecommunications industry. The loss of the services of key members of management and the inability or delay in hiring new key employees could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and our future operational and financial results.Risks Related to Ownership Positions of Charter’s Principal ShareholdersCharter’s principal stockholders own a significant amount of Charter’s common stock, giving them influence over corporate transactions and other matters.Members of Charter’s board of directors include directors who are also employed by our principal stockholders, Mr. Darren Glatt is an employee of Apollo Management, L.P.;  Mr. Bruce Karsh is the president of Oaktree Capital Management, L.P.; Mr. Stan Parker is a senior partner of Apollo Global Management LLC; and Mr. Edgar Lee is a Senior Vice President of Oaktree Capital Management, L.P.  As of December 31, 2011, funds affiliated with AP Charter Holdings, L.P. beneficially held approximately 33% of the Class A common stock of Charter. Oaktree Opportunities Investments, L.P. and certain affiliated funds beneficially held approximately 17% of the Class A common stock of Charter.  The board of directors of Charter has nominated Jeffrey Marcus as a candidate for election to the board.  Mr. Marcus is a partner of Crestview Partners, L.P.  Crestview beneficially held approximately 11% of Charter's outstanding Class A common stock as of December 31, 2011.  Charter’s principal stockholders may be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate action, such as mergers and other business combination transactions should these stockholders retain a significant ownership interest in us.  Charter’s principal stockholders are not restricted from investing in, and have invested in, and engaged in, other businesses involving or related to the operation of cable television systems, video programming, Internet service, telephone or business and financial transactions conducted through broadband interactivity and Internet services.  The principal stockholders may also engage in other businesses that compete or may in the future compete with us.The principal stockholders’ substantial influence over our management and affairs could create conflicts of interest if any of them were faced with decisions that could have different implications for them and us.Risks Related to Regulatory and Legislative Matters Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation, which could adversely affect our business.Regulation of the cable industry has increased cable operators' operational and administrative expenses and limited their revenues.  Cable operators are subject to, among other things:•rules governing the provision of cable equipment and compatibility with new digital technologies;•rules and regulations relating to subscriber and employee privacy and data security;•limited rate regulation;•rules governing the copyright royalties that must be paid for retransmitting broadcast signals;•requirements governing when a cable system must carry a particular broadcast station and when it must first obtain retransmission consent to carry a broadcast station;•requirements governing the provision of channel capacity to unaffiliated commercial leased access programmers;•rules limiting our ability to enter into exclusive agreements with multiple dwelling unit complexes and control our inside wiring;•rules, regulations, and regulatory policies relating to provision of high-speed Internet service, including net neutrality rules;•rules, regulations, and regulatory policies relating to provision of voice communications;•rules for franchise renewals and transfers; and23•other requirements covering a variety of operational areas such as equal employment opportunity, emergency alert systems, technical standards, and customer service requirements.Additionally, many aspects of these regulations are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals.  In March 2010, the FCC submitted its National Broadband Plan to Congress and announced its intention to initiate approximately 40 rulemakings addressing a host of issues related to the delivery of broadband services, including video, data, VoIP and other services. The broad reach of these rulemakings could ultimately impact the environment in which we operate. There are also ongoing efforts to amend or expand the federal, state, and local regulation of some of our cable systems, which may compound the regulatory risks we already face, and proposals that might make it easier for our employees to unionize.  For example, Congress and various federal agencies are now considering adoption of significant new privacy restrictions, including new restrictions on the use of personal and profiling information for behavioral advertising.  In response to recent global data breaches, malicious activity and cyber threats, as well as the general increasing concerns regarding the protection of consumers’ personal information, Congress is considering the adoption of new data security and cybersecurity legislation that could result in additional network and information security requirements for our business. In the event of a data breach or cyber attack, these new laws, as well as existing legal and regulatory obligations, could require significant expenditures to remedy any such breach or attack. In addition, the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010 includes various provisions intended to ensure communications services are accessible to people with disabilities.  Our cable system franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination. The failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business.Our cable systems generally operate pursuant to franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by a state or local governmental authority controlling the public rights-of-way.  Many franchises establish comprehensive facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance.  In many cases, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with significant provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system operations.  Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms and must be periodically renewed.  Franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate.  Franchise authorities often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal.  In some instances, local franchises have not been renewed at expiration, and we have operated and are operating under either temporary operating agreements or without a franchise while negotiating renewal terms with the local franchising authorities.  The traditional cable franchising regime is currently undergoing significant change as a result of various federal and state actions.  Some of the new state franchising laws do not allow us to immediately opt into favorable statewide franchising.  In many cases, state franchising laws will result in fewer franchise imposed requirements for our competitors who are new entrants than for us, until we are able to opt into the applicable state franchise.We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all significant provisions of our franchise agreements and certain of our franchisors have from time to time alleged that we have not complied with these agreements.  Additionally, although historically we have renewed our franchises without incurring significant costs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew, or to renew as favorably, our franchises in the future.  A termination of or a sustained failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business in the affected geographic area.Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Accordingly, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises and create competition in market areas where none existed previously, resulting in overbuilds, which could adversely affect results of operations.Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive.  Consequently, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises to competitors in the same geographic area or operate their own cable systems.  In some cases, local government entities and municipal utilities may legally compete with us without obtaining a franchise from the local franchising authority.  In addition, certain telephone companies are seeking authority to operate in communities without first obtaining a local franchise.  As a result, competing operators may build systems in areas in which we hold franchises. In a series of rulemakings, the FCC adopted new rules that streamline entry for new competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduce franchising burdens for these new entrants.  At the same time, a substantial number of states have adopted new franchising laws. principally designed to streamline entry for new competitors, and often provide advantages for these new entrants that are not immediately available to existing operators.  24Local franchise authorities have the ability to impose additional regulatory constraints on our business, which could further increase our expenses.In addition to the franchise agreement, cable authorities in some jurisdictions have adopted cable regulatory ordinances that further regulate the operation of cable systems.  This additional regulation increases the cost of operating our business.  Local franchising authorities may impose new and more restrictive requirements.  Local franchising authorities who are certified to regulate rates in the communities where they operate generally have the power to reduce rates and order refunds on the rates charged for basic service and equipment.Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  We operate cable systems in locations throughout the United States and, as a result, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of federal, state and local governments. From time to time, various legislative and/or administrative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. As a result of state and local budget shortfalls due primarily to the recession as well as other considerations, certain states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on our services or changing the methodologies or base on which certain fees and taxes are computed. Such potential changes include additional taxes or fees on our services which could impact our customers, combined reporting and other changes to general business taxes, central/unit-level assessment of property taxes and other matters that could increase our income, franchise, sales, use and/or property tax liabilities. In addition, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. Further regulation of the cable industry could cause us to delay or cancel service or programming enhancements, or impair our ability to raise rates to cover our increasing costs, resulting in increased losses.Currently, rate regulation is strictly limited to the basic service tier and associated equipment and installation activities.  However, the FCC and Congress continue to be concerned that cable rate increases are exceeding inflation.  It is possible that either the FCC or Congress will further restrict the ability of cable system operators to implement rate increases.  Should this occur, it would impede our ability to raise our rates.  If we are unable to raise our rates in response to increasing costs, our losses would increase.There has been legislative and regulatory interest in requiring cable operators to offer historically combined programming services on an á la carte basis.  It is possible that new marketing restrictions could be adopted in the future. Such restrictions could adversely affect our operations.Actions by pole owners might subject us to significantly increased pole attachment costs.Pole attachments are cable wires that are attached to utility poles.  Cable system attachments to investor-owned public utility poles historically have been regulated at the federal or state level, generally resulting in favorable pole attachment rates for attachments used to provide cable service.  In contrast, utility poles owned by municipalities or cooperatives are not subject to federal regulation and are generally exempt from state regulation.  On April 7, 2011, the FCC amended its pole attachment rules to promote broadband deployment.  The new order (the "Order") maintains the basic rate formula applicable to "cable" attachments in the 30 states directly subject to FCC regulation, but reduces the rate formula previously applicable to "telecommunications" attachments to make it roughly equivalent to the cable attachment rate.  Although the Order maintains the status quo treatment of cable-provided VoIP service as an unclassified service eligible for the favorable cable rate, there is still some uncertainty in this area.  The Order also allows for new penalties in certain cases involving unauthorized attachments that could result in additional costs for cable operators.  The new Order overall strengthens the cable industry's ability to access investor-owned utility poles on reasonable rates, terms and conditions.  Electric utilities filed Petitions for Reconsideration at the FCC and Petitions for Review in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals seeking to modify or overturn the FCC’s Order.  Charter and other cable operators have intervened in the court proceeding in support of the FCC.Increasing regulation of our Internet service product could adversely affect our ability to provide new products and services.On December 21, 2010, the FCC adopted new “net neutrality” rules it deemed necessary to ensure continuation of an “open” Internet that is not unduly restricted by network “gatekeepers,” which went into effect on November 20, 2011.  The new rules are based on three core principles of: (1) transparency, (2) no blocking, and (3) no unreasonable discrimination. The rules permit broadband service providers to exercise “reasonable network management” for legitimate management purposes, such as 25management of congestion, harmful traffic, and network security. The rules also permit usage-based billing, and permit broadband service providers to offer additional specialized services such as facilities-based IP voice services, without being subject to restrictions on discrimination. Although the rules encompass both wireline providers (like us) and wireless providers, the rules are less stringent with regard to wireless providers.  Verizon and other parties have filed for additional FCC review, as well as filing an appeal challenging the FCC’s authority to issue such rules, which will be heard by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.  For now, the FCC will enforce these rules based on case-by-case complaints. Because many of the requirements are vague and because the FCC has not provided clear guidance on implementation, it is unclear how the FCC will enforce its rules and adjudicate any related complaints. A legislative review is also possible. The FCC’s new rules, if they withstand challenges, as well as any additional legislation or regulation, could impose new obligations and restraints on high-speed Internet providers. Any such rules or statutes could limit our ability to manage our cable systems to obtain value for use of our cable systems and respond to operational and competitive challenges. Changes in channel carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on us.Cable operators also face significant regulation of their channel carriage.  We can be required to devote substantial capacity to the carriage of programming that we might not carry voluntarily, including certain local broadcast signals; local public, educational and government access (“PEG”) programming; and unaffiliated, commercial leased access programming (required channel capacity for use by persons unaffiliated with the cable operator who desire to distribute programming over a cable system).  Under FCC regulations, most cable systems are currently required to offer both an analog and digital version of local broadcast signals.  This burden could increase further if we are required to carry multiple programming streams included within a single digital broadcast transmission (multicast carriage) or if our broadcast carriage obligations are otherwise expanded.  Pursuant to copyright legislation adopted in 2010, the Copyright Office recently issued a report recommending that Congress gradually phase-out  the compulsory copyright license through which cable systems have historically retransmitted broadcast programming, but the Copyright Office report failed to identify specific mechanisms for accomplishing that phase-out.  At the same time, the cost that cable operators face to secure retransmission consent (separate from copyright authority) for the carriage of popular broadcast stations is increasing significantly.  The FCC also adopted new commercial leased access rules (currently stayed while under appeal) which dramatically reduce the rate we can charge for leasing this capacity and dramatically increase our associated administrative burdens.  The FCC recently adopted amendments, and is currently considering additional amendments, to its program carriage rules that provide additional rights to programmers dissatisfied with their carriage arrangements with cable and satellite companies to pursue complaints against these companies at the FCC.  These regulatory changes could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our preferred use of limited channel capacity, increase our programming costs, and limit our ability to offer services that would maximize our revenue potential.  It is possible that other legal restraints will be adopted limiting our discretion over programming decisions.Offering voice communications service may subject us to additional regulatory burdens, causing us to incur additional costs.We offer voice communications services over our broadband network and continue to develop and deploy VoIP services. The FCC has ruled that competitive telephone companies that support VoIP services, such as those we offer our customers, are entitled to interconnect with incumbent providers of traditional telecommunications services, which ensure that our VoIP services can compete in the market.  The FCC has also declared that certain VoIP services are not subject to traditional state public utility regulation. The full extent of the FCC preemption of state and local regulation of VoIP services is not yet clear. Expanding our offering of these services may require us to obtain certain additional authorizations. We may not be able to obtain such authorizations in a timely manner, or conditions could be imposed upon such licenses or authorizations that may not be favorable to us. Telecommunications companies generally are subject to other significant regulation which could also be extended to VoIP providers. If additional telecommunications regulations are applied to our VoIP service, it could cause us to incur additional costs.  The FCC has already extended certain traditional telecommunications carrier requirements, such as E911, Universal Service fund collection, Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act ("CALEA"), privacy, Customer Proprietary Network Information, number porting, disability and discontinuance of service requirements to many VoIP providers such as us. On November 18, 2011, the FCC released an order significantly changing the rules governing intercarrier compensation payments for the origination and termination of telephone traffic between carriers. The new rules will result in a substantial decrease in intercarrier compensation payments over a multi-year period. We had intercarrier compensation of approximately $23 million in 2011.  The decreases over the multi-year transition will affect both the amounts that Charter pays to other carriers and the amounts that Charter receives from other carriers. The schedule and magnitude of these decreases, however, will vary depending on the nature of the carriers and the telephone traffic at issue, and the FCC's new ruling initiates further implementation rulemakings. We cannot yet predict with certainty the balance of the impact on Charter's revenues and expenses for voice services at particular times over this multi-year period. 26Item 1B