.     Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We have a significant amount of debt and may incur significant additional debt, including secured debt, in the future, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes in our business.We have a significant amount of debt and may (subject to applicable restrictions in our debt instruments) incur additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2014, our total principal amount of debt was approximately $21.1 billion, including $7.0 billion of debt for which proceeds are held in escrow pending consummation of the Transactions.Our significant amount of debt could have consequences, such as:•impact our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable rates, or at all;•make us vulnerable to interest rate increases, because approximately 28% of our borrowings are, and may continue to be, subject to variable rates of interest;•expose us to increased interest expense to the extent we refinance existing debt with higher cost debt;•require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operating activities to make payments on our debt, reducing our funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate expenses;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the cable and telecommunications industries, and the economy at large;•place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt; and•adversely affect our relationship with customers and suppliers.If current debt amounts increase, the related risks that we now face will intensify. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity.Our credit facilities and the indentures governing our debt contain a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, our liquidity, and our results of operations.  These covenants restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to:•incur additional debt;•repurchase or redeem equity interests and debt;•issue equity;•make certain investments or acquisitions;•pay dividends or make other distributions;•dispose of assets or merge;•enter into related party transactions; and •grant liens and pledge assets.Additionally, the Charter Operating credit facilities require Charter Operating to comply with a maximum total leverage covenant and a maximum first lien leverage covenant.  The breach of any covenants or obligations in our indentures or credit facilities, not  18otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness.  In addition, the secured lenders under the Charter Operating credit facilities could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interests in our subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors.      We depend on generating sufficient cash flow to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures, and ongoing operations.  We are dependent on our cash on hand and cash flow from operations to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures and ongoing operations.Our ability to service our debt and to fund our planned capital expenditures and ongoing operations will depend on our ability to continue to generate cash flow and our access (by dividend or otherwise) to additional liquidity sources at the applicable obligor.  Our ability to continue to generate cash flow is dependent on many factors, including:•our ability to sustain and grow revenues and cash flow from operations by offering video, Internet, voice, advertising and other services to residential and commercial customers, to adequately meet the customer experience demands in our markets and to maintain and grow our customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive competition, the need for innovation and the related capital expenditures;•the impact of competition from other market participants, including but not limited to incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite operators, wireless broadband and telephone providers, DSL providers, video provided over the Internet and providers of advertising over the Internet;•general business conditions, economic uncertainty or downturn, high unemployment levels and the level of activity in the housing sector; •our ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to raise prices to offset, in whole or in part, the effects of higher programming costs (including retransmission consents); •the development and deployment of new products and technologies; and•the effects of governmental regulation on our business or potential business combination transactions.Some of these factors are beyond our control.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or we are unable to access additional liquidity sources, we may not be able to service and repay our debt, operate our business, respond to competitive challenges, or fund our other liquidity and capital needs.  Restrictions in our subsidiaries' debt instruments and under applicable law limit their ability to provide funds to us and our subsidiaries that are debt issuers.Our primary assets are our equity interests in our subsidiaries.  Our operating subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and are not obligated to make funds available to their debt issuer holding companies for payments on our notes or other obligations in the form of loans, distributions, or otherwise.  Charter Operating’s ability to make distributions to us, CCOH Safari or CCO Holdings, our other primary debt issuers, to service debt obligations is subject to its compliance with the terms of its credit facilities, and restrictions under applicable law.  See “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Limitations on Distributions” and “— Summary of Restrictive Covenants of Our Notes – Restrictions on Distributions.”  Under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (the “Act”), our subsidiaries may only make distributions if the relevant entity has “surplus” as defined in the Act.  Under fraudulent transfer laws, our subsidiaries may not pay dividends if the relevant entity is insolvent or is rendered insolvent thereby.  The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred.  Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if:•the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all its assets;•the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or•it could not pay its debts as they became due.While we believe that our relevant subsidiaries currently have surplus and are not insolvent, these subsidiaries may become insolvent in the future.  Our direct or indirect subsidiaries include the borrowers under the CCO Safari credit facility and the borrowers and guarantors under the Charter Operating credit facilities.  CCOH Safari and CCO Holdings are each an obligor under their respective senior notes.  As of December 31, 2014, our total principal amount of debt was approximately $21.1 billion, including $7.0 billion of debt for which proceeds are held in escrow pending consummation of the Transactions. 19In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation, or dissolution of one or more of our subsidiaries, that subsidiary's assets would first be applied to satisfy its own obligations, and following such payments, such subsidiary may not have sufficient assets remaining to make payments to its parent company as an equity holder or otherwise. In that event:•the lenders under Charter Operating's credit facilities, whose interests are secured by substantially all of our operating assets, and all holders of other debt of CCOH Safari, CCO Holdings, Charter Operating and CCO Safari, will have the right to be paid in full before us from any of our subsidiaries' assets; and•CCH I, the holder of preferred membership interests in our subsidiary, CC VIII, would have a claim on a portion of CC VIII’s assets that may reduce the amounts available for repayment to holders of CCO Holdings' and CCOH Safari's outstanding notes. All of our outstanding debt is subject to change of control provisions.  We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness following a change of control, which would place us in default under the applicable debt instruments.We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under our notes and our credit facilities following a change of control.  Under the indentures governing our notes, upon the occurrence of specified change of control events, the debt issuer is required to offer to repurchase all of its outstanding notes.  However, we may not have sufficient access to funds at the time of the change of control event to make the required repurchase of the applicable notes, and Charter Operating is limited in its ability to make distributions or other payments to any debt issuer to fund any required repurchase.  In addition, a change of control under the Charter Operating credit facilities would result in a default under those credit facilities.  Because such credit facilities are obligations of Charter Operating, the credit facilities would have to be repaid before Charter Operating's assets could be available to CCO Holdings or CCOH Safari to repurchase their notes.  Any failure to make or complete a change of control offer would place CCO Holdings or CCOH Safari in default under its notes.  The failure of our subsidiaries to make a change of control offer or repay the amounts accelerated under their notes and credit facilities would place them in default.Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a very competitive business environment, which affects our ability to attract and retain customers and can adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has become more so in recent years.  In some instances, we compete against companies with fewer regulatory burdens, better access to financing, greater personnel resources, greater resources for marketing, greater and more favorable brand name recognition, and long-established relationships with regulatory authorities and customers.  Increasing consolidation in the cable industry and the repeal of certain ownership rules have provided additional benefits to certain of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale.  We could also face additional competition from multi-channel video providers if they began distributing video over the Internet to customers residing outside their current territories.Our principal competitors for video services throughout our territory are DBS providers.  The two largest DBS providers are DirecTV and DISH Network.  Competition from DBS, including intensive marketing efforts with aggressive pricing, exclusive programming and increased HD broadcasting has had an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers. DBS companies have also expanded their activities in the MDU market.    Telephone companies, including two major telephone companies, AT&T and Verizon, offer video and other services in competition with us, and we expect they will increasingly do so in the future.  Upgraded portions of these networks carry two-way video, data services and provide digital voice services similar to ours.  In the case of Verizon, FIOS high-speed data services offer speeds as high as or higher than ours.  In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies.  Based on our internal estimates, we believe that AT&T and Verizon are offering video services in areas serving approximately 30% and 4%, respectively, of our estimated passings and we have experienced customer losses in these areas.  AT&T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to capture more of the MDU market.  AT&T has publicly stated that it expects to roll out its video product beyond the territories currently served although it is unclear where and to what extent.  When AT&T or Verizon have introduced or expanded their offering of video products in our market areas, we have seen a decrease in our video revenue as AT&T and Verizon typically roll out aggressive marketing and discounting campaigns to launch their products.  Additionally, in May 2014, AT&T announced its intention to acquire DirecTV, the nation’s largest DBS provider.  If completed, this transaction will create an even larger competitor for Charter’s video services that will have the ability to expand its video service offerings to include bundled wireless offerings. 20Due to consumer electronic innovations, content owners are allowing consumers to watch Internet-delivered content on televisions, personal computers, tablets, gaming boxes connected to televisions and mobile devices, some without charging a fee to access the content.  Technological advancements, such as video-on-demand, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers, and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. For example, online video services continue to offer consumers alternatives including Hulu, Netflix, Amazon and Apple.  Recently, HBO and CBS announced plans to sell their programming direct to consumers over the Internet.  DISH has also announced Sling TV which will include ESPN among other programming, and Sony has announced PlayStation Vue which is expected to include 75 TV channels to be launched in the first quarter of 2015.  The increasing number of choices available to audiences could also negatively impact advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from us, as well as the price they are willing to pay for advertising.With respect to our Internet access services, we face competition, including intensive marketing efforts and aggressive pricing, from telephone companies, primarily AT&T and Verizon, and other providers of DSL, fiber-to-the-node and fiber-to-the-home services.  DSL service competes with our Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than our Internet services, although often at speeds lower than the speeds we offer.  Fiber-to-the-node networks can provide faster Internet speeds than conventional DSL, but still cannot typically match our Internet speeds.  Fiber-to-the-home networks, however, can provide Internet speeds equal to or greater than our current Internet speeds.  In addition, in many of our markets, DSL providers have entered into co-marketing arrangements with DBS providers to offer service bundles combining video services provided by a DBS provider with DSL and traditional telephone and wireless services offered by the telephone companies and their affiliates.  These service bundles offer customers similar pricing and convenience advantages as our bundles.  Continued growth in our residential voice business faces risks.  The competitive landscape for residential and commercial telephone services is intense; we face competition from providers of Internet telephone services, as well as incumbent telephone companies.  Further, we face increasing competition for residential voice services as more consumers in the United States are replacing traditional telephone service with wireless service.  We expect to continue to price our voice product aggressively as part of our triple play strategy which could negatively impact our revenue from voice services to the extent we do not increase volume.The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an overbuild.  Overbuilds could adversely affect our growth, financial condition, and results of operations, by creating or increasing competition.  We are aware of traditional overbuild situations impacting certain of our markets, however, we are unable to predict the extent to which additional overbuild situations may occur. In order to attract new customers, from time to time we make promotional offers, including offers of temporarily reduced price or free service.  These promotional programs result in significant advertising, programming and operating expenses, and also may require us to make capital expenditures to acquire and install customer premise equipment.  Customers who subscribe to our services as a result of these offerings may not remain customers following the end of the promotional period.  A failure to retain customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mergers, joint ventures, and alliances among franchised, wireless, or private cable operators, DBS providers, local exchange carriers, and others, may provide additional benefits to some of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale, or the ability to provide multiple services in direct competition with us. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, our business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, print media, and the Internet.  If we do not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, our competitive position could deteriorate, and our financial results could suffer. Our services may not allow us to compete effectively.  Competition may reduce our expected growth of future cash flows which may contribute to future impairments of our franchises and goodwill and our ability to meet cash flow requirements, including debt service requirements.  Our exposure to the economic conditions of our current and potential customers, vendors and third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition.We are exposed to risks associated with the economic conditions of our current and potential customers, the potential financial instability of our customers and their financial ability to purchase our products.  If there were a general economic downtown, we may experience increased cancellations by our customers or unfavorable changes in the mix of products purchased.  These events have adversely affected us in the past, and may adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition if a downturn were to occur.  21In addition, we are susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide products and services or to which we outsource certain functions.  The same economic conditions that may affect our customers, as well as volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, also could adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in output or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely.  Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operation and financial condition.We face risks inherent in our commercial business.  We may encounter unforeseen difficulties as we increase the scale of our service offerings to businesses.  We sell Internet access, data networking and fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video and business voice services to businesses and have increased our focus on growing this business.  In order to grow our commercial business, we expect to continue investment in technology, equipment and personnel focused on the commercial business.  Commercial business customers often require service level agreements and generally have heightened customer expectations for reliability of services.  If our efforts to build the infrastructure to scale the commercial business are not successful, the growth of our commercial services business would be limited.  We depend on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties for the growth of our commercial business.  As a result, our ability to implement changes as the services grow may be limited.  If we are unable to meet these service level requirements or expectations, our commercial business could be adversely affected.  Finally, we expect advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, we are unable to predict the effect that ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on our voice and commercial businesses and operations.Programming costs are rising at a much faster rate than wages or inflation, and we may not have the ability to reduce or moderate the growth rates of, or pass on to our customers, our increasing programming costs, which would adversely affect our cash flow and operating margins.Programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, our largest operating expense item.  In recent years, the cable industry has experienced a rapid escalation in the cost of programming.  We expect programming costs to continue to increase because of a variety of factors including amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual increases imposed by programmers with additional selling power as a result of media consolidation, incremental programming, including new sports services, out-of-home or non-linear programming and attempts by programmers to replace advertising revenue they are losing to online marketing options and as a result of declining viewership ratings.  The inability to fully pass these programming cost increases on to our customers has had an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with the video product.  We have programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before the end of 2015.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms.  To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable, we may be forced to remove such programming channels from our line-up, which could result in a further loss of customers.Increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent are likely to further increase our programming costs.  Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime.  When a station opts for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission.  In some cases, we carry stations under short-term arrangements while we attempt to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements.  If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require us to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period.  Any loss of stations could make our video service less attractive to customers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue.  In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have an interest.  Carriage of these other services, as well as increased fees for retransmission rights, may increase our programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity we have available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.Our inability to respond to technological developments and meet customer demand for new products and services could limit our ability to compete effectively. Our business is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services, some of which are bandwidth-intensive.  We may not be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, execute the plans to do so, or anticipate the demand of our customers for products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth.  The implementation of our network-based user interface, Spectrum Guide, and downloadable security necessary for our Worldbox set-top box strategy, may ultimately be unsuccessful or more expensive than anticipated. In order to realize the  22benefits of our Worldbox technology, we must implement our downloadable conditional access security in our regional video networks.  Our inability to maintain and expand our upgraded systems and provide advanced services such as a state of the art user interface in a timely manner, or to anticipate the demands of the marketplace, could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers.  Consequently, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially.We depend on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors; thus, if we are unable to procure the necessary services, equipment, software or licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, our ability to offer services could be impaired, and our growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors to supply some of the services, hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of our services.  We obtain these materials from a limited number of vendors, some of which do not have a long operating history or which may not be able to continue to supply the equipment and services we desire.  Some of our hardware, software and operational support vendors, and service providers represent our sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity.  If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment or services we need in a timely manner, at our specifications and at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay our ability to serve our customers.  These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract customers, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, financial results and financial condition.  A limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead to less product innovation and higher costs.  Our cable systems have historically been restricted to using one of two proprietary conditional access security systems, which we believe has limited the number of manufacturers producing set-top boxes for such systems.  As an alternative, Charter has developed a conditional access security system which may be downloaded into set-top boxes with features we specify that could be provided by a variety of manufacturers.  We refer to our specified set-top box as our Worldbox.  In order to realize the benefits of our Worldbox technology, we must now implement the conditional access security system across our video network.  We cannot provide assurances that this implementation will ultimately be successful or completed in the expected timeframe or at the expected budget.We further depend on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in our operating activities. Any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to continue to use certain intellectual property, which could result in discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm, our incurring substantial monetary liability or being enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question.Various events could disrupt our networks, information systems or properties and could impair our operating activities and negatively impact our reputation.Network and information systems technologies are critical to our operating activities, as well as our customers' access to our services.  We may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions.  Malicious and abusive activities, such as the dissemination of computer viruses, worms, and other destructive or disruptive software, computer hackings, social engineering, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks and other malicious activities have become more common in industry overall.  If directed at us or technologies upon which we depend, these activities could have adverse consequences on our network and our customers, including degradation of service, excessive call volume to call centers, and damage to our or our customers' equipment and data.  Further, these activities could result in security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems and networks, and in our vendors’ systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data.  System failures and network disruptions may also be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions or telecommunications failures.  If a significant incident were to occur, it could damage our reputation and credibility, lead to customer dissatisfaction and, ultimately, loss of customers or revenue, in addition to increased costs to service our customers and protect our network. These events also could result in large expenditures to repair or replace the damaged properties, networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future.   System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities.  Any significant loss of customers or revenue, or significant increase in costs of serving those customers, could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations.For tax purposes, we could experience a deemed ownership change in the future that could limit our ability to use our tax loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $9.5 billion of federal tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $3.3 billion. Federal tax net operating loss carryforwards expire in the years 2020 through  232034. These losses resulted from the operations of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, we had state tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately $321 million. State tax net operating loss carryforwards generally expire in the years 2015 through 2034. Due to uncertainties in projected future taxable income, valuation allowances have been established against the gross deferred tax assets for book accounting purposes, except for future taxable income that will result from the reversal of existing temporary differences for which deferred tax liabilities are recognized. Such tax loss carryforwards can accumulate and be used to offset our future taxable income. In the past, we have experienced “ownership changes” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”).  In general, an “ownership change” occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by “5-percent stockholders” (within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by such “5-percent stockholders” at any time over the preceding three years. As a result, we are subject to an annual limitation on the use of our loss carryforwards which existed at November 30, 2009 for the first "ownership change" and those that existed at May 1, 2013 for the second "ownership change."  The limitation on our ability to use our loss carryforwards, in conjunction with the loss carryforward expiration provisions, could reduce our ability to use a portion of our loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income, which could result in us being required to make material cash tax payments.  Our ability to make such income tax payments, if any, will depend at such time on our liquidity or our ability to raise additional capital, and/or on receipt of payments or distributions from Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries.   If we were to experience a third ownership change in the future (as a result of purchases and sales of stock by our "5-percent stockholders," new issuances or redemptions of our stock, certain acquisitions of our stock and issuances, redemptions, sales or other dispositions or acquisitions of interests in our "5-percent stockholders"), our ability to use our loss carryforwards could become subject to further limitations.  Our common stock is subject to certain transfer restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation.  These restrictions, which are designed to minimize the likelihood of an ownership change occurring and thereby preserve our ability to utilize our loss carryforwards, are not currently operative but could become operative in the future if certain events occur and the restrictions are imposed by our board of directors.  However, there can be no assurance that our board of directors would choose to impose these restrictions or that such restrictions, if imposed, would prevent an ownership change from occurring.If we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to manage our business could be adversely affected. Our operational results have depended, and our future results will depend, upon the retention and continued performance of our management team. Our ability to retain and hire new key employees for management positions could be impacted adversely by the competitive environment for management talent in the broadband communications industry. The loss of the services of key members of management and the inability or delay in hiring new key employees could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and our future operational and financial results. Our inability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, assets, products or technologies could harm our operating results.We continuously evaluate and pursue small and large acquisitions and strategic investments in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our business or otherwise offer growth or cost-saving opportunities. From time to time, including in the near term, we may enter into letters of intent with companies with which we are negotiating for potential acquisitions or investments, or as to which we are conducting due diligence. An investment in, or acquisition of, complementary businesses, products or technologies in the future could materially decrease the amount of our available cash or require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. We may not be successful in negotiating the terms of any potential acquisition, conducting thorough due diligence, financing the acquisition or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. Our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, or employee or customer issues. Additionally, in connection with any acquisitions we complete, we may not achieve the growth, synergies or other benefits we expected to achieve, and we may incur write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities that could negatively affect our operating results or financial position or could otherwise harm our business. Further, contemplating or completing an acquisition and integrating an acquired business, product or technology, individually or across multiple opportunities, could divert management and employee time and resources from other matters. 24Risks Related to Ownership Position of Liberty Broadband CorporationLiberty Broadband Corporation owns a significant amount of Charter’s common stock, giving it influence over corporate transactions and other matters.Members of our board of directors include directors who are also officers and directors of our principal stockholder.  Dr. John Malone is the Chairman of Liberty Broadband Corporation, and Mr. Greg Maffei is the president and chief executive officer of Liberty Broadband Corporation.  As of December 31, 2014, Liberty Broadband Corporation beneficially held approximately 25.75% of our Class A common stock.  Liberty Broadband Corporation has the right to designate up to four directors as nominees for our board of directors through our 2015 annual meeting of stockholders with one designated director to be appointed to each of the Audit Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Compensation and Benefits Committee.  Liberty Broadband Corporation may be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate action, such as mergers and other business combination transactions should Liberty Broadband Corporation retain a significant ownership interest in us.  Liberty Broadband Corporation and its affiliates are not restricted from investing in, and have invested in, and engaged in, other businesses involving or related to the operation of cable television systems, video programming, Internet service, voice or business and financial transactions conducted through broadband interactivity and Internet services.  Liberty Broadband Corporation and its affiliates may also engage in other businesses that compete or may in the future compete with us.Liberty Broadband Corporation's substantial influence over our management and affairs could create conflicts of interest if Liberty Broadband Corporation faced decisions that could have different implications for it and us. Risks Related to the TransactionsAs a result of the Transactions, current Charter stockholders’ ownership interest in Charter will be diluted from 100% to approximately 92%. Immediately following the Transactions, it is expected that the current stockholders of Charter, who presently own 100% of Charter, will own approximately 92% of the outstanding common stock of Charter.  The Transactions therefore will result in substantial dilution of the ownership interest of the current Charter stockholders.  Additionally, due to the ownership dilution, Charter’s current stockholders as a group will be able to exercise less influence after the Transactions than they currently exercise over the management, operations and policies for Charter.  If GreatLand Connections raises less proceeds in the related financing Transactions than currently contemplated, Charter is obligated pursuant to the Merger Agreement and the financing arrangements to increase its stock consideration paid in the Charter Merger, which would further dilute existing Charter stockholders.  Also, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, if the price at which shares of Charter trade were to be lower during the 60 days leading up to the closing of the Transactions, Charter would have to issue more shares further diluting existing Charter stockholders.  Completion of the Transactions is subject to a number of conditions and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the Transactions will not be completed.Our obligation and the obligation of Comcast to complete the Transactions are subject to satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions, including, among others:•completion of Comcast’s acquisition of TWC;•expiration or termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act ("HSR Act") waiting period and receipt of certain regulatory approvals for the Transactions, in most cases without the imposition of a burdensome condition;•unless not required under applicable law, approval by our stockholders;•receipt of opinions of counsel as to the tax-free nature of certain of the Transactions;•absence of injunction or legal impediment on any of the Transactions;•effectiveness of a registration statement for GreatLand Connections shares to be issued in the Transactions and approval for the listing on NASDAQ of the shares of GreatLand Connections’ common stock to be issued in the Transactions;•effectiveness of the registration statement filed by CCH I, which will become New Charter upon the closing of the Transactions ("New Charter") and approval for listing on NASDAQ of the shares of New Charter’s common stock;•accuracy of the representations and warranties with respect to each of the Transactions, subject to certain materiality thresholds;•performance of covenants with respect to each of the Transactions, subject to certain materiality thresholds;•with respect to Charter’s obligations, absence of a material adverse change with respect to the assets and liabilities transferred to GreatLand Connections and the assets and liabilities transferred by Comcast to us, taken as a whole, and  25with respect to Comcast’s obligations, absence of a material adverse change with respect to the assets and liabilities transferred by us to Comcast and absence of a material adverse effect with respect to us, and also with respect to Charter’s obligations, absence of the assertion by Charter’s financing sources of a material adverse effect with respect to us; and•completion of the debt-for-debt exchange contemplated in connection with the GreatLand Connections spin-off from Comcast.There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the Transactions will be satisfied or waived or that the Transactions will be completed.In order to complete the Transactions, we along with Comcast must obtain certain governmental authorizations, and if such authorizations are not granted or are granted with conditions to the parties, completion of the Transactions may be jeopardized or the anticipated benefits of the Transactions could be reduced.Completion of the Transactions is conditioned upon the expiration or early termination of the waiting periods relating to the Transactions under the HSR Act and the required governmental authorizations, including an order of the FCC, having been obtained and being in full force and effect.  Although we and Comcast have agreed in the Transactions Agreement to use reasonable best efforts, subject to certain limitations, to obtain the required governmental authorizations, there can be no assurance that the relevant waiting periods will expire or that the relevant authorizations will be obtained.  In addition, the governmental authorities with or from which these authorizations are required have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations.  As a condition to authorization of the Transactions, these governmental authorities may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of our business after completion of the Transactions.  There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying completion of the Transactions or imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of New Charter following the Transactions, or otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations after completion of the Transactions.  In addition, we can provide no assurance that these conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the Transactions.We have relied on publicly available information and ongoing diligence on the systems being acquired by Charter and by GreatLand Connections.We have relied on publicly available information and ongoing diligence regarding the systems being acquired by Charter and by GreatLand Connections.  The Transactions accordingly provide for assumption by Charter and by GreatLand Connections of only those liabilities that are primarily related to the systems acquired by each of them respectively, and for valuation terms that will depend on actual Carveout 2014 EBITDA (as defined in the Transactions Agreement) produced by such systems, including true-up adjustment payments related to EBITDA and, in some cases, working capital.  However, it is possible that significant liabilities, present, future or contingent, may be assumed by Charter or GreatLand Connections that are not fully reflected in the valuation terms, and accordingly could have a material adverse effect on Charter and/or its investment in GreatLand Connections.  Similarly, it is possible that certain assets required to operate the systems acquired by GreatLand Connections and/or Charter, such as licenses, technologies and/or employees, may not be transferred in the Transactions, requiring GreatLand Connections and/or Charter to incur additional costs and invest additional resources to procure such assets and/or hire employees with expertise in the transferred business, which may adversely affect Charter’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Transactions.  As we have already entered into the Agreement for the Transactions without any diligence conditions, our ongoing diligence is not expected to give rise to any material adjustments in the Transactions, and our ongoing diligence continues to focus on the transition of the to be acquired systems to our ownership or the provision of services in the case of GreatLand Connections.We may not realize anticipated cost synergies and growth opportunities. We expect that we will realize cost synergies, growth opportunities and other financial and operating benefits as a result of the Transactions.  Our success in realizing these cost synergies, growth opportunities and other financial and operating benefits, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of the business operations obtained in the Asset Exchange and the Asset Purchase and our ability to provide certain services to GreatLand Connections effectively pursuant to a services agreement.  Even if we are able to integrate the business operations obtained in the Asset Exchange and the Asset Purchase successfully, we cannot predict with certainty if or when these cost synergies, growth opportunities and benefits will occur, or the extent to which they actually will be achieved.  For example, the benefits from the Transactions may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the new business operations or in obtaining or attempting to obtain regulatory approvals for the Transactions, or negatively impacted by potential programming dis-synergies that we may experience as a result of the Transactions.  Realization of any benefits and cost synergies could be affected by the factors described in other risk factors and a number of factors beyond our control, including, without limitation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs, the response of competitors and regulatory developments.    26In addition, certain license and customer contracts which are required to be transferred to GreatLand Connections or Charter by Comcast require the consent of the licensor or customer party to the contract to effect this assignment.  Comcast, GreatLand Connections and Charter may be unable to obtain these consents on terms favorable to GreatLand Connections or Charter, respectively, or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on GreatLand Connections’ (and hence on us) or on our business, financial condition and results of operations after the Transactions.  There can be no assurance that third-party consents will be obtained prior to completion of the Transactions or at all. The integration of the business acquired in the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase with the businesses we operated prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase may not be successful or the anticipated benefits from the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase may not be realized. After consummation of the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase, we will have significantly more systems, assets, investments, businesses, customers and employees than we did prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase.  The process of integrating these assets with the businesses we operated prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase will require us to expend significant capital and significantly expand the scope of our operations and operating and financial systems.  Our management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of the acquired assets with our operations before the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase.  There is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. These difficulties include:•integrating the operations of the acquired assets while carrying on the ongoing operations of the businesses we operated prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase; •integrating information, purchasing, provisioning, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll, reporting and regulatory compliance systems;•integrating and unifying the product offerings and services available to customers, including customer premise equipment and video user interfaces;•completing the conversion of analog systems to all-digital for the systems to be acquired;•managing a significantly larger company than before consummation of the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase; •integrating separate business cultures; •attracting and retaining the necessary personnel associated with the acquired assets; and•creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems and controlling the costs associated with such matters; and•the impact on our business of providing services to GreatLand Connections which will also face the foregoing difficulties.Charter and Comcast have agreed to provide each other with transition services in connection with the transferred systems and relevant assets.  Providing such services could divert management attention and result in additional costs, particularly as Charter starts up infrastructure and staff to take over transition services and provides transition services to Comcast for former Charter systems.  In addition, the inability to procure such services could negatively impact our expected results of operations.There is no assurance that the assets acquired in the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase will be successfully or cost-effectively integrated into the businesses we operated prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase. The process of integrating the acquired assets into our operations prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business.  If our management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer and our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. Even if we are able to successfully integrate the new assets, it may not be possible to realize the benefits that are expected to result from the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is expected. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. Programming dis-synergies could also be larger than expected.  If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from the acquisition, our liquidity, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected. The value of our interests in GreatLand Connections following the Transactions may fluctuate from time to time based on factors beyond our control.Following the Transactions, the value of our interests in GreatLand Connections will depend on GreatLand Connections’ operational performance and fluctuations in its share price.  We will not control the management and operations of GreatLand Connections, and we will therefore not be able to prevent or address any decline in the operational performance or trading value of GreatLand Connections.  In addition, the operational performance and trading value of GreatLand Connections may be influenced by other  27factors outside our control, including risks resulting from the separation of the cable systems from Comcast; changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or GreatLand Connections’ ability to meet those estimates; and domestic and foreign economic conditions. If the operating results for GreatLand Connections following the Transactions are poor, we may not achieve the increases in revenues and earnings per share that we expect as a result of the Transactions. We have projected that we will derive a portion of our revenues and earnings per share from GreatLand Connections after the Transactions, through receipt of a services fee of 4.25% of GreatLand Connections’ revenues pursuant to a services agreement.  In addition, we will record 33% of GreatLand Connections’ net income, which will also have an impact on our operating results.  Therefore, any negative impact on GreatLand Connections or the operations of GreatLand Connections' business could harm our operating results.  Some of the significant factors that could harm GreatLand Connections and the operations of the GreatLand Connections' business, and therefore harm our future operating results after the Transactions, include competitive pressure from existing or new companies and a decline in the markets served by GreatLand Connections. If the operating results of the TWC assets acquired in the Asset Exchange and the Asset Purchase are less than our expectations, or an increase in the capital expenditures to upgrade and maintain those assets as well as to keep pace with technological developments is necessary, Charter may not achieve the expected level of financial results from the Transactions. We have projected that we will derive a portion of our revenues and earnings per share from the operation of the TWC assets that we will acquire in the Asset Exchange and the Asset Purchase.  Therefore, any negative impact on the TWC assets to be acquired by us or the operating results derived from such exchanged and purchased assets could harm our operating results.  Our business is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services.  We intend to make all-digital investments in the TWC assets acquired in the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase and transition toward only using two-way interactive set-top boxes. The increase in capital expenditures necessary for the all-digital investment and the transition toward two-way set-top boxes in the TWC assets may negatively impact the expected financial results from the Transactions. We may not be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, execute the plans to do so, or anticipate the demand of our customers for products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth.  Our inability to maintain, expand and upgrade our existing or acquired assets, including through all-digital initiatives for the TWC assets, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Because of high debt levels, we may not be able to service our debt obligations in accordance with our terms after the Transactions. Our ability to meet our expense and debt service obligations contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in customer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors.  Should our sales decline after the Transactions, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay our debt service obligations when due.  If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations after the Transactions or should we fail to comply with our financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices or borrow more money.  We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us or at all.  Our inability to refinance our debt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results from operations after the Transactions.We may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other employees in light of the Transactions.Uncertainty about the effect of the Transactions on our employees may have an adverse effect on us.  This uncertainty may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel until the Transactions are completed.  Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the Transactions, as employees may feel uncertain about their future roles with us after the Transactions.  If our employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Transactions could be reduced.  Similar challenges exist for us in retaining employees being transferred to Charter in the Transactions and in attracting any additional personnel we may need after the Transactions.A delay in the completion of the Transactions may diminish the anticipated benefits of the Transactions. Completion of the Transactions is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental consents and approvals, orders, authorizations, and rulings, including the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period (or extension thereof) under the HSR Act and the adoption of an order by the FCC granting its consent to the transfer of control or assignment of certain licenses and authorizations issued by the FCC.  The requirement to receive these consents and approvals, orders, authorizations and rulings  28before the Transactions could delay the completion of the Transactions if, for example, government agencies request additional information from the parties in order to facilitate their review of the Transactions or require any conditions precedent to granting their approval of the Transactions.  In addition, these governmental agencies may attempt to condition their approval of the Transactions on the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on us after the Transactions, including but not limited to our operating results or the value of Charter Class A common stock.  Any delay in the completion of the Transactions could diminish the anticipated benefits of the Transactions or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the Transactions.  Any uncertainty over the ability of the companies to complete the Transactions could make it more difficult for us and GreatLand Connections to retain key employees or to pursue business strategies.  In addition, until the Transactions are completed, the attention of our management may be diverted from ongoing business concerns and regular business responsibilities to the extent management is focused on matters relating to the Transactions. Failure to complete the Transactions could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results.If the Transactions are not completed for any reason, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the Transactions, we would be subject to a number of risks:•We may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on our stock price;•We may experience negative reactions from our customers, regulators and employees;•We may be required to pay significant costs relating to the Transactions, and will have paid significant costs related to the Transactions such as interest on the $7.0 billion of debt incurred to fund the Transactions;•The Transactions Agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of our business with respect to our assets being transferred to Comcast prior to completion of the Transactions. Such restrictions, the waiver of which is subject to the consent of the other party (in certain cases, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), may have prevented us from taking certain specified actions or otherwise pursuing business opportunities during the pendency of the Transactions; and •Matters relating to the Transactions (including integration planning) will require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management and expenditures, which would otherwise have been devoted to day-to-day operations and other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us in the absence of the Transactions. If the Transactions are not completed, the risks described above may materialize and they may adversely affect our business, financial condition, financial results and stock price.In addition, we could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Transactions or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the Transactions Agreement. If the Spin-Off does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of GreatLand Connections, then Comcast may recognize a very substantial amount of taxable gain and GreatLand Connections (and in certain circumstances, Charter) may be obligated to indemnify Comcast for these taxes. The completion of the Transactions is conditioned upon the receipt of opinions from counsel as to the tax free nature of certain of the Transactions, including the Spin-Off.  The opinions of counsel will be based on, among other things, current law and certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Comcast, GreatLand Connections and Charter.  Any change in currently applicable law, which may be retroactive, or the failure of any representation to be true, correct and complete, could adversely affect the conclusions reached by counsel in the opinions.  Moreover, the opinions will not be binding on the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the conclusions reached in the opinions.  Even if the Spin-Off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free spin-off for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Spin-Off will be taxable to Comcast pursuant to section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more of the stock of either Comcast or GreatLand Connections is acquired, directly or indirectly (taking into account the stock of GreatLand Connections acquired by New Charter in the Merger and the stock of Comcast and GreatLand Connections acquired by TWC shareholders in the transaction between Comcast and TWC and in the Spin-Off), as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Spin-Off. Because GreatLand Connections stockholders that are former Comcast shareholders (exclusive of former TWC shareholders) will own more than 50% of the common stock of GreatLand Connections following the Merger, the Merger standing alone is not expected to cause the Spin-Off to be taxable to Comcast under section 355(e) of the Code. However, if the IRS were to determine that other acquisitions of GreatLand Connections common stock or Comcast common stock, either before or after the Spin-Off are part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Spin-Off, such determination could result in the recognition of gain by Comcast under section 355(e) of the Code. If section 355(e) of the Code applied, Comcast might recognize a very substantial amount of taxable gain.  29Under the tax sharing agreement that will be entered into by Comcast, GreatLand Connections and, to a limited extent, New Charter, in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, GreatLand Connections will be required to indemnify Comcast against taxes on the Spin-Off that arise as a result of certain actions or failures to act by GreatLand Connections or as a result of certain changes in ownership of the stock of GreatLand Connections after the completion of the Transactions. GreatLand Connections will be unable to take certain actions after the Transactions because such actions could adversely affect the tax-free status of the Spin-Off, and such restrictions could be significant. If GreatLand Connections is required to indemnify Comcast in the event the Spin-Off is taxable, this indemnification obligation would be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on GreatLand Connections.Moreover, under the tax sharing agreement, in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, New Charter will be required to indemnify Comcast against taxes on the Spin-Off that arise from New Charter taking any actions that would result in New Charter holding GreatLand Connections shares in excess of the percentage of GreatLand Connections shares acquired in the Merger during the two year period following the Spin-Off.  If New Charter is required to indemnify Comcast in the event the Spin-Off is taxable, this indemnification obligation would be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on New Charter.New Charter and GreatLand Connections will be unable to take certain actions after the Transactions because such actions could adversely affect the tax-free status of the Spin-Off, and such restrictions could be significant.The tax sharing agreement will prohibit New Charter, Charter and GreatLand Connections from taking actions that could cause the Spin-Off to be taxable to Comcast.  In particular, for two years after the completion of the Transactions, New Charter and GreatLand Connections will not be permitted to take actions that would result in New Charter holding (or being treated as holding) GreatLand Connections shares in excess of the percentage of GreatLand Connections shares acquired by New Charter in the merger.  These actions could include entering into certain merger or consolidation transactions, certain stock issuances and certain other desirable strategic transactions.Because of these restrictions, GreatLand Connections may be limited in the amount of stock that it can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital in the two years subsequent to the completion of the Charter Merger, which could have a material adverse effect on GreatLand Connections’ liquidity and financial condition.  The tax sharing agreement will also provide that in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, GreatLand Connections and New Charter will be required to indemnify Comcast against taxes on the Spin-Off that arise as a result of actions in violation of the prohibitions and limitations described above.  If GreatLand Connections or New Charter is required to indemnify Comcast in the event the Spin-Off is taxable, this indemnification obligation would be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on GreatLand Connections or New Charter, as applicable.We will incur significant transaction-related costs in connection with the Transactions.We expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with the Transactions before, at, and after closing the Transactions. We also will incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans, including facilities and systems implementation costs and employment-related costs. We continue to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the Transactions and integration. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset integration-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.  In addition, if the Transactions are not consummated, we would bear some or all of these costs without the benefit of efficiencies from the integration of the businesses. Such costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Sales of our common stock after the Transactions may negatively affect the market price of New Charter common stock. The shares of our common stock to be issued in the Transactions to holders of GreatLand Connections common stock (initially, the Comcast shareholders) will generally be eligible for immediate resale.  The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market after the consummation of the Transactions or even the perception that these sales could occur. Currently, Comcast shareholders may include index funds that have performance tied to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index or other stock indices, and institutional investors subject to various investing guidelines.  Because New Charter may not be included in these indices following the consummation of the Transactions or may not meet the investing guidelines of some of these institutional investors, these index funds and institutional investors may decide to or may be required to sell the common stock that they receive  30in the Transactions.  These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, may also make it more difficult for New Charter to obtain additional capital by selling equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that it deems appropriate. Risks Related to Regulatory and Legislative Matters Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation, which could adversely affect our business.Regulation of the cable industry has increased cable operators' operational and administrative expenses and limited their revenues.  Cable operators are subject to various laws and regulations including those covering the following:•the provisioning and marketing of cable equipment and compatibility with new digital technologies;•subscriber and employee privacy and data security;•limited rate regulation of video service;•copyright royalties for retransmitting broadcast signals;•when a cable system must carry a particular broadcast station and when it must first obtain retransmission consent to carry a broadcast station;•the provision of channel capacity to unaffiliated commercial leased access programmers;•limitations on our ability to enter into exclusive agreements with multiple dwelling unit complexes and control our inside wiring;•the provision of high-speed Internet service, including net neutrality rules;•the provision of voice communications;•cable franchise renewals and transfers; •equal employment opportunity, emergency alert systems, disability access, technical standards, marketing practices, customer service, and consumer protection; and•approval for mergers and acquisitions often accompanied by the imposition of restrictions and requirements on an applicant's business in order to secure approval of the proposed transaction.Additionally, many aspects of these laws and regulations are often the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals.  There are also ongoing efforts to amend or expand the federal, state, and local regulation of some of the services offered over our cable systems, which may compound the regulatory risks we already face, and proposals that might make it easier for our employees to unionize.  Some states are considering adopting energy efficiency regulations governing the operation of equipment (such as broadband modems) that we use to deliver Internet services, which could constrain innovation in broadband services and equipment.  Congress is considering whether to rewrite the entire Communications Act to account for changes in the communications marketplace.  Congress and various federal agencies are also considering more focused changes, such as new privacy restrictions and new restrictions on the use of personal and profiling information for behavioral advertising.  In response to recent global data breaches, malicious activity and cyber threats, as well as the general increasing concerns regarding the protection of consumers’ personal information, Congress and various federal agencies are also considering the adoption of new data security and cybersecurity legislation and regulation that could result in additional network and information security requirements for our business. These new laws, as well as existing legal and regulatory obligations, could affect our operations and require significant expenditures.  In addition, federal, state, and local regulators could deny necessary approval of the Transactions or impose additional regulatory conditions in connection with their review of the Transactions that could affect our operations.Our cable system franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination. The failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business.Our cable systems generally operate pursuant to franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by a state or local governmental authority controlling the public rights-of-way.  Many franchises establish comprehensive facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance.  In many cases, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with significant provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system operations.  Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms and must be periodically renewed.  Franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate.  Franchise authorities often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal.  In some instances, local franchises have not been renewed at expiration, and we have operated and are operating under either temporary operating agreements or without a franchise while negotiating renewal terms with the local franchising authorities.The traditional cable franchising regime has recently undergone significant change as a result of various federal and state actions.  Some state franchising laws do not allow incumbent operators like us to opt into favorable statewide franchising as quickly as  31new entrants, and often require us to retain certain franchise obligations that are more burdensome than those applied to new entrants.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all significant provisions of our franchise agreements and certain of our franchisers have from time to time alleged that we have not complied with these agreements.  Additionally, although historically we have renewed our franchises without incurring significant costs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew, or to renew as favorably, our franchises in the future.  A termination of or a sustained failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business in the affected geographic area.Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Accordingly, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises and create additional competition for our products, resulting in overbuilds, which could adversely affect results of operations.Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive.  Consequently, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises to competitors in the same geographic area or operate their own cable systems.  In some cases, local government entities and municipal utilities may legally compete with us on more favorable terms.  As a result, competing operators may build systems in areas in which we hold franchises.The FCC has adopted rules that streamline entry for new competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduce franchising burdens for these new entrants.  At the same time, a substantial number of states have adopted new franchising laws, principally designed to streamline entry for new competitors, and often provide advantages for these new entrants that are not immediately available to existing operators.  Broadband delivery of video content is not necessarily subject to the same franchising obligations applicable to our traditional cable systems.The FCC administers a program that collects Universal Service Fund contributions from telecommunications service providers and uses them to subsidize the provision of telecommunications services in high-cost areas and to low-income consumers and the provision of Internet and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care providers.  A variety of regulatory changes may lead the FCC to expand the collection of Universal Service Fund contributions to encompass Internet service providers.  The FCC already has begun to redirect the expenditure of some Universal Service Funding to broadband deployment in ways that could assist competitors in competing with our services. Local franchise authorities have the ability to impose additional regulatory constraints on our business, which could further increase our expenses.In addition to the franchise agreement, cable authorities in some jurisdictions have adopted cable regulatory ordinances that further regulate the operation of cable systems.  This additional regulation increases the cost of operating our business.  Local franchising authorities may impose new and more restrictive requirements.  Local franchising authorities who are certified to regulate rates in the communities where they operate generally have the power to reduce rates and order refunds on the rates charged for basic service and equipment.Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  We operate cable systems in locations throughout the United States and, as a result, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of federal, state and local governments. From time to time, various legislative and/or administrative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. Certain states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on our services or changing the methodologies or base on which certain fees and taxes are computed.  The federal Internet Tax Freedom Act, which prohibits many taxes on Internet access service, will expire October 1, 2015, unless it is renewed by Congress. Potential changes include additional taxes or fees on our services which could impact our customers, combined reporting and other changes to general business taxes, central/unit-level assessment of property taxes and other matters that could increase our income, franchise, sales, use and/or property tax liabilities. In addition, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. 32Further regulation of the cable industry could impair our ability to raise rates to cover our increasing costs, resulting in increased losses.Currently, rate regulation of cable systems is strictly limited to the basic service tier and associated equipment and installation activities.  However, the FCC and Congress continue to be concerned that cable rate increases are exceeding inflation.  It is possible that either the FCC or Congress will further restrict the ability of cable system operators to implement rate increases for our video services or even for our high-speed Internet and voice services.  Should this occur, it would impede our ability to raise our rates.  If we are unable to raise our rates in response to increasing costs, our losses would increase.There has been legislative and regulatory interest in requiring companies that own multiple cable networks to make each of them available on a standalone, rather than a bundled basis to cable operators, and in requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled programming services on an á la carte basis to consumers.   While any new regulation or legislation designed to enable cable operators to purchase programming on a standalone basis could be beneficial to Charter, any regulation or legislation that limits how we sell programming could adversely affect our business.Actions by pole owners might subject us to significantly increased pole attachment costs.Pole attachments are cable wires that are attached to utility poles.  Cable system attachments to investor-owned public utility poles historically have been regulated at the federal or state level, generally resulting in favorable pole attachment rates for attachments used to provide cable service.  In contrast, utility poles owned by municipalities or cooperatives are not subject to federal regulation and are generally exempt from state regulation.  In 2011, the FCC amended its pole attachment rules to promote broadband deployment.  The order overall strengthens the cable industry's ability to access investor-owned utility poles on reasonable rates, terms and conditions.  It also allows for new penalties in certain cases involving unauthorized attachments that could result in additional costs for cable operators.  The new rules were affirmed in 2013.   Future regulatory changes in this area could impact the pole attachment rates we pay utility companies.Increasing regulation of our Internet service product could adversely affect our ability to provide new products and services.On May 15, 2014, the FCC initiated a rulemaking to issue new "network neutrality" regulations, potentially including a reclassification of broadband services as Title II common carrier services, which could subject our services to far more extensive and burdensome federal and state regulation.  On February 4, 2015, the Chairman of the FCC released a fact sheet describing his proposed new rules. The Chairman’s proposal reclassifies wireline and wireless broadband services as Title II common carrier services. The new rules would prohibit ISPs from engaging in blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization, and the existing transparency rules compelling the disclosure of network management policies would be enhanced. The FCC would also have authority under the proposed rules to hear complaints and take enforcement action if it determines that the interconnection of ISPs are not just and reasonable, or if ISPs fail to meet a new general obligation not to harm consumers or edge providers. We do not know at the current time whether the regulations proposed by the Chairman will be adopted by the full Commission at a meeting scheduled for February 26, 2015, whether any rules adopted actually will go into effect or be struck down by a legal appeal, or how any new rules actually would be administered by the FCC, but such rules could limit our ability to efficiently manage our cable systems and respond to operational and competitive challenges. Changes in channel carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on us.Cable operators also face significant regulation of their video channel carriage.  We can be required to devote substantial capacity to the carriage of programming that we might not carry voluntarily, including certain local broadcast signals; local public, educational and governmental access (“PEG”) programming; and unaffiliated, commercial leased access programming (required channel capacity for use by persons unaffiliated with the cable operator who desire to distribute programming over a cable system). The FCC adopted revised commercial leased access rules which would dramatically reduce the rate we can charge for leasing this capacity and dramatically increase our administrative burdens, but these remain stayed while under appeal.  Legislation has been introduced in Congress in the past that, if adopted, could impact our carriage of broadcast signals by simultaneously eliminating the cable industry’s compulsory copyright license and the retransmission consent requirements governing cable’s retransmission of broadcast signals. The FCC also continues to consider changes to the rules affecting the relationship between programmers (including broadcasters) and multichannel video distributors.   Future regulatory changes could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our preferred use of limited channel capacity, increase our programming costs, and limit our ability to offer services that would maximize our revenue potential.  It is possible that other legal restraints will be adopted limiting our discretion over programming decisions. 33Our voice service is subject to regulatory burdens which may increase, causing us to incur additional costs.We offer voice communications services over our broadband network using VoIP services. The FCC has ruled that competitive telephone companies that support VoIP services, such as those we offer our customers, are entitled to interconnect with incumbent providers of traditional telecommunications services, which ensures that our VoIP services can compete in the market.  The scope of these interconnection rights are being reviewed in a current FCC proceeding, which may affect our ability to compete in the provision of voice services or result in additional costs.  The FCC has also declared that certain VoIP services are not subject to traditional state public utility regulation. The full extent of the FCC preemption of state and local regulation of VoIP services is not yet clear. Telecommunications companies generally are subject to other significant regulation which could also be extended to VoIP providers. If additional telecommunications regulations are applied to our VoIP service, it could cause us to incur additional costs.  The FCC has already extended certain traditional telecommunications carrier requirements to many VoIP providers such as us, including E911, Universal Service fund collection, CALEA, privacy of Customer Proprietary Network Information, number porting, network outage reporting, rural call completion reporting, disability access and discontinuance of service requirements. In November 2011, the FCC released an order significantly changing the rules governing intercarrier compensation payments for the origination and termination of telephone traffic between carriers, including VoIP service providers like us. The United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit upheld the rules in May 2014. The new rules will result in a substantial decrease in intercarrier compensation payments over a multi-year period. We received intercarrier compensation of approximately $23 million, $21 million and $19 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Item 1B