.     Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We have a significant amount of debt and may incur significant additional debt, including secured debt, in the future, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes in our business.We have a significant amount of debt and may (subject to applicable restrictions in our debt instruments) incur additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2015, our total principal amount of debt was approximately $35.9 billion, including $21.8 billion of debt for which proceeds are held in escrow pending consummation of the TWC Transaction.Our significant amount of debt could have consequences, such as:•impact our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable rates, or at all;•make us vulnerable to interest rate increases, because approximately 17% of our borrowings as of December 31, 2015 were, and may continue to be, subject to variable rates of interest;•expose us to increased interest expense to the extent we refinance existing debt with higher cost debt;•require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operating activities to make payments on our debt, reducing our funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate expenses;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the cable and telecommunications industries, and the economy at large;•place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt; and•adversely affect our relationship with customers and suppliers.If current debt amounts increase, the related risks that we now face will intensify. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity.Our credit facilities and the indentures governing our debt contain a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, our liquidity, and our results of operations.  These covenants restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to:•incur additional debt;•repurchase or redeem equity interests and debt;•issue equity;•make certain investments or acquisitions;•pay dividends or make other distributions;•dispose of assets or merge;•enter into related party transactions; and •grant liens and pledge assets.Additionally, the Charter Operating credit facilities require Charter Operating to comply with a maximum total leverage covenant and a maximum first lien leverage covenant.  The breach of any covenants or obligations in our indentures or credit facilities, not otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness.  In addition, the secured lenders under the Charter Operating credit facilities, CCO Safari III credit facilities and the holders of the CCO Safari II notes could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interests in our subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors.      We depend on generating sufficient cash flow to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures, and ongoing operations.  We are dependent on our cash on hand and cash flow from operations to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures and ongoing operations. 20Our ability to service our debt and to fund our planned capital expenditures and ongoing operations will depend on our ability to continue to generate cash flow and our access (by dividend or otherwise) to additional liquidity sources at the applicable obligor.  Our ability to continue to generate cash flow is dependent on many factors, including:•our ability to sustain and grow revenues and cash flow from operations by offering video, Internet, voice, advertising and other services to residential and commercial customers, to adequately meet the customer experience demands in our markets and to maintain and grow our customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive competition, the need for innovation and the related capital expenditures;•the impact of competition from other market participants, including but not limited to incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite operators, wireless broadband and telephone providers, DSL providers, video provided over the Internet and providers of advertising over the Internet;•general business conditions, economic uncertainty or downturn, high unemployment levels and the level of activity in the housing sector; •our ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to raise prices to offset, in whole or in part, the effects of higher programming costs (including retransmission consents); •the development and deployment of new products and technologies including our cloud-based user interface, Spectrum Guide®, and downloadable security for set-top boxes; •the effects of governmental regulation on our business or potential business combination transactions; and•any events that disrupt our networks, information systems or properties and impair our operating activities and negatively impact our reputation.Some of these factors are beyond our control.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or we are unable to access additional liquidity sources, we may not be able to service and repay our debt, operate our business, respond to competitive challenges, or fund our other liquidity and capital needs.  Restrictions in our subsidiaries' debt instruments and under applicable law limit their ability to provide funds to us and our subsidiaries that are debt issuers.Our primary assets are our equity interests in our subsidiaries.  Our operating subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and are not obligated to make funds available to their debt issuer holding companies for payments on our notes or other obligations in the form of loans, distributions, or otherwise.  Charter Operating’s ability to make distributions to Charter, CCO Holdings, CCOH Safari, CCO Safari II or CCO Safari III, our other primary debt issuers, to service debt obligations is subject to its compliance with the terms of its credit facilities, and restrictions under applicable law.  See “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Limitations on Distributions” and “— Summary of Restrictive Covenants of Our Notes – Restrictions on Distributions.”  Under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (the “Act”), our subsidiaries may only make distributions if the relevant entity has “surplus” as defined in the Act.  Under fraudulent transfer laws, our subsidiaries may not pay dividends if the relevant entity is insolvent or is rendered insolvent thereby.  The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred.  Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if:•the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all its assets;•the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or•it could not pay its debts as they became due.While we believe that our relevant subsidiaries currently have surplus and are not insolvent, these subsidiaries may become insolvent in the future.  Our direct or indirect subsidiaries include the borrowers and guarantors under the Charter Operating credit facilities and the entities that will be issuers and guarantors under the CCO Safari II notes upon consummation of the TWC Transaction.  CCO Holdings and CCOH Safari are also obligors under their respective senior notes and CCO Safari III is an obligor under its credit facilities.  As of December 31, 2015, our total principal amount of debt was approximately $35.9 billion.In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation, or dissolution of one or more of our subsidiaries, that subsidiary's assets would first be applied to satisfy its own obligations, and following such payments, such subsidiary may not have sufficient assets remaining to make payments to its parent company as an equity holder or otherwise. In that event, the lenders under Charter Operating's credit facilities, the CCO Safari II notes and any other indebtedness of our subsidaries whose interests are (or will be following the consummation of the TWC Transaction) secured by substantially all of our operating assets, and all holders of other debt of Charter Operating, CCO Safari II, CCO Safari III, CCO Holdings and CCOH Safari will have the right to be paid in full before us from any of our subsidiaries' assets. 21 Some of our outstanding debt is subject to change of control provisions.  We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness following a change of control, which would place us in default under the applicable debt instruments.We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under our notes and our credit facilities following a change of control.  Under the indentures governing the CCO Holdings' notes and CCOH Safari notes, upon the occurrence of specified change of control events, the debt issuer is required to offer to repurchase all of its outstanding notes.  However, we may not have sufficient access to funds at the time of the change of control event to make the required repurchase of the applicable notes, and Charter Operating is limited in its ability to make distributions or other payments to any debt issuer to fund any required repurchase.  In addition, a change of control under the Charter Operating credit facilities would result in a default under those credit facilities, which would trigger a default under the indentures governing the CCO Holdings' notes and CCO Safari II notes.  Because such credit facilities and notes are obligations of Charter Operating and its subsidiaries, the credit facilities would have to be repaid before Charter Operating's assets could be available to CCO Holdings or CCOH Safari to repurchase their notes.  Any failure to make or complete a change of control offer would place CCO Holdings or CCOH Safari in default under their notes.  The failure of our subsidiaries to make a change of control offer or repay the amounts accelerated under their notes and credit facilities would place them in default under such agreements.Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a very competitive business environment, which affects our ability to attract and retain customers and can adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has become more so in recent years.  In some instances, we compete against companies with fewer regulatory burdens, better access to financing, greater personnel resources, greater resources for marketing, greater and more favorable brand name recognition, and long-established relationships with regulatory authorities and customers.  Increasing consolidation in the cable industry and the repeal of certain ownership rules have provided additional benefits to certain of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale.  We could also face additional competition from multi-channel video providers if they began distributing video over the Internet to customers residing outside their current territories.Our principal competitors for video services throughout our territory are DBS providers.  The two largest DBS providers are DirecTV (which is owned by AT&T) and DISH Network.  Competition from DBS, including intensive marketing efforts with aggressive pricing, exclusive programming and increased HD broadcasting has had an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers. DBS companies have also expanded their activities in the MDU market.    Telephone companies, including two major telephone companies, AT&T and Verizon, offer video and other services in competition with us, and we expect they will increasingly do so in the future.  Upgraded portions of these networks carry two-way video, data services and provide digital voice services similar to ours.  In the case of Verizon, FIOS high-speed data services offer speeds as high as or higher than ours.  In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies.  Based on our internal estimates, we believe that AT&T (excluding DirecTV) and Verizon are offering video services in areas serving approximately 35% and 4%, respectively, of our estimated residential passings and we have experienced customer losses in these areas.  AT&T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to capture more of the MDU market.  When AT&T or Verizon have introduced or expanded their offering of video products in our market areas, we have seen a decrease in our video revenue as AT&T and Verizon typically roll out aggressive marketing and discounting campaigns to launch their products.  Additionally, in July 2015, AT&T completed its acquisition of DirecTV, the nation’s largest DBS provider and in connection with that acquisition, AT&T committed to expand fiber to the premises services to 12.5 million locations.  This transaction created an even larger competitor for Charter’s video services that has the ability to expand its video service offerings to include bundled wireless offerings.Due to consumer electronic innovations, content owners are allowing consumers to watch Internet-delivered content on televisions, personal computers, tablets, gaming boxes connected to televisions and mobile devices, some without charging a fee to access the content.  Technological advancements, such as video on demand, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers, and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. For example, online video services continue to offer consumers alternatives including Hulu, Netflix, Amazon and Apple.  In 2015, HBO and CBS began selling their programming direct to consumers over the Internet.  DISH Network launched Sling TV which includes ESPN among other programming, and Sony launched PlayStation Vue which includes 85+ TV channels.  The increasing number of choices available to audiences could also negatively impact advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from us, as well as the price they are willing to pay for advertising. 22With respect to our Internet access services, we face competition, including intensive marketing efforts and aggressive pricing, from telephone companies, primarily AT&T and Verizon, and other providers of DSL, fiber-to-the-node and fiber-to-the-home services.  DSL service competes with our Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than our Internet services, although often at speeds lower than the speeds we offer.  Fiber-to-the-node networks can provide faster Internet speeds than conventional DSL, but still cannot typically match our Internet speeds.  Fiber-to-the-home networks, however, can provide Internet speeds equal to or greater than our current Internet speeds.  In addition, in many of our markets, DSL providers have entered into co-marketing arrangements with DBS providers to offer service bundles combining video services provided by a DBS provider with DSL and traditional telephone and wireless services offered by the telephone companies and their affiliates.  These service bundles offer customers similar pricing and convenience advantages as our bundles.  Continued growth in our residential voice business faces risks.  The competitive landscape for residential and commercial telephone services is intense; we face competition from providers of Internet telephone services, as well as incumbent telephone companies.  Further, we face increasing competition for residential voice services as more consumers in the United States are replacing traditional telephone service with wireless service.  We expect to continue to price our voice product aggressively as part of our triple play strategy which could negatively impact our revenue from voice services to the extent we do not increase volume.The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an overbuild.  Overbuilds could adversely affect our growth, financial condition, and results of operations, by creating or increasing competition.  We are aware of traditional overbuild situations impacting certain of our markets, however, we are unable to predict the extent to which additional overbuild situations may occur. In order to attract new customers, from time to time we make promotional offers, including offers of temporarily reduced price or free service.  These promotional programs result in significant advertising, programming and operating expenses, and also may require us to make capital expenditures to acquire and install customer premise equipment.  Customers who subscribe to our services as a result of these offerings may not remain customers following the end of the promotional period.  A failure to retain customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mergers, joint ventures, and alliances among franchised, wireless, or private cable operators, DBS providers, local exchange carriers, and others, may provide additional benefits to some of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale, or the ability to provide multiple services in direct competition with us. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, our business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, print media, and the Internet.  If we do not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, our competitive position could deteriorate, and our financial results could suffer. Our services may not allow us to compete effectively.  Competition may reduce our expected growth of future cash flows which may contribute to future impairments of our franchises and goodwill and our ability to meet cash flow requirements, including debt service requirements.  Our exposure to the economic conditions of our current and potential customers, vendors and third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition.We are exposed to risks associated with the economic conditions of our current and potential customers, the potential financial instability of our customers and their financial ability to purchase our products.  If there were a general economic downtown, we may experience increased cancellations by our customers or unfavorable changes in the mix of products purchased.  These events have adversely affected us in the past, and may adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition if a downturn were to occur. In addition, we are susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide products and services or to which we outsource certain functions.  The same economic conditions that may affect our customers, as well as volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, also could adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in output or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely.  Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operation and financial condition. 23We face risks inherent in our commercial business.  We may encounter unforeseen difficulties as we increase the scale of our service offerings to businesses.  We sell Internet access, data networking and fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video and business voice services to businesses and have increased our focus on growing this business.  In order to grow our commercial business, we expect to continue investment in technology, equipment and personnel focused on the commercial business.  Commercial business customers often require service level agreements and generally have heightened customer expectations for reliability of services.  If our efforts to build the infrastructure to scale the commercial business are not successful, the growth of our commercial services business would be limited.  We depend on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties for the growth of our commercial business.  As a result, our ability to implement changes as the services grow may be limited.  If we are unable to meet these service level requirements or expectations, our commercial business could be adversely affected.  Finally, we expect advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, we are unable to predict the effect that ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on our voice and commercial businesses and operations.Programming costs are rising at a much faster rate than wages or inflation, and we may not have the ability to reduce or moderate the growth rates of, or pass on to our customers, our increasing programming costs, which would adversely affect our cash flow and operating margins.Programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, our largest operating expense item.  In recent years, the cable industry has experienced a rapid escalation in the cost of programming.  We expect programming costs to continue to increase because of a variety of factors including amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual increases imposed by programmers with additional selling power as a result of media consolidation, incremental programming, including new sports services, out-of-home or non-linear programming and attempts by programmers to replace advertising revenue they are losing to online marketing options and as a result of declining viewership ratings.  The inability to fully pass these programming cost increases on to our customers has had an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with the video product.  We have programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before the end of 2016.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms.  To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable, we may be forced to remove such programming channels from our line-up, which could result in a further loss of customers.Increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent are likely to further increase our programming costs.  Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime.  When a station opts for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission.  In some cases, we carry stations under short-term arrangements while we attempt to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements.  If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require us to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period.  Any loss of stations could make our video service less attractive to customers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue.  In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have an interest.  Carriage of these other services, as well as increased fees for retransmission rights, may increase our programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity we have available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.Our inability to respond to technological developments and meet customer demand for new products and services could limit our ability to compete effectively. Our business is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services, some of which are bandwidth-intensive.  We may not be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, execute the plans to do so, or anticipate the demand of our customers for products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth.  The implementation of our network-based user interface, Spectrum Guide, and downloadable security necessary for our Worldbox set-top box strategy, may ultimately be unsuccessful or more expensive than anticipated. In order to realize the benefits of our Worldbox technology, we must implement our downloadable conditional access security in our regional video networks.  Our inability to maintain and expand our upgraded systems and provide advanced services such as a state of the art user interface in a timely manner, or to anticipate the demands of the marketplace, could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers.  Consequently, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. 24We depend on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors; thus, if we are unable to procure the necessary services, equipment, software or licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, our ability to offer services could be impaired, and our growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors to supply some of the services, hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of our services.  We obtain these materials from a limited number of vendors, some of which do not have a long operating history or which may not be able to continue to supply the equipment and services we desire.  Some of our hardware, software and operational support vendors, and service providers represent our sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity.  If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment or services we need in a timely manner, at our specifications and at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay our ability to serve our customers.  These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract customers, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, financial results and financial condition.  A limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead to less product innovation and higher costs.  Our cable systems have historically been restricted to using one of two proprietary conditional access security systems, which we believe has limited the number of manufacturers producing set-top boxes for such systems.  As an alternative, Charter has developed a conditional access security system which may be downloaded into set-top boxes with features we specify that could be provided by a variety of manufacturers.  We refer to our specified set-top box as our Worldbox.  In order to realize the benefits of our Worldbox technology, we must now implement the conditional access security system across our video network.  We cannot provide assurances that this implementation will ultimately be successful or completed in the expected timeframe or at the expected budget.We further depend on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in our operating activities. Any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to continue to use certain intellectual property, which could result in discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm, our incurring substantial monetary liability or being enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question.Various events could disrupt our networks, information systems or properties and could impair our operating activities and negatively impact our reputation.Network and information systems technologies are critical to our operating activities, as well as our customers' access to our services.  We may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions.  Malicious and abusive activities, such as the dissemination of computer viruses, worms, and other destructive or disruptive software, computer hackings, social engineering, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks and other malicious activities have become more common in industry overall.  If directed at us or technologies upon which we depend, these activities could have adverse consequences on our network and our customers, including degradation of service, excessive call volume to call centers, and damage to our or our customers' equipment and data.  Further, these activities could result in security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems and networks, and in our vendors’ systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data.  System failures and network disruptions may also be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions or telecommunications failures.  If a significant incident were to occur, it could damage our reputation and credibility, lead to customer dissatisfaction and, ultimately, loss of customers or revenue, in addition to increased costs to service our customers and protect our network. These events also could result in large expenditures to repair or replace the damaged properties, networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future.   System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities.  Any significant loss of customers or revenue, or significant increase in costs of serving those customers, could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations.For tax purposes, we could experience a deemed ownership change in the future that could limit our ability to use our tax loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately $11.3 billion of federal tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $4.0 billion. Federal tax net operating loss carryforwards expire in the years 2020 through 2035. These losses resulted from the operations of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, we had state tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately $365 million. State tax net operating loss carryforwards generally expire in the years 2016 through 2035. Due to uncertainties in projected future taxable income, valuation allowances have been established against the gross deferred tax assets for book  25accounting purposes, except for future taxable income that will result from the reversal of existing temporary differences for which deferred tax liabilities are recognized. Such tax loss carryforwards can accumulate and be used to offset our future taxable income. In the past, we have experienced “ownership changes” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”).  In general, an “ownership change” occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by “5-percent stockholders” (within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by such “5-percent stockholders” at any time over the preceding three years. As a result, Charter is, and following the TWC transactions, New Charter (or, if only the Bright House Transaction is completed, Charter) will be subject to an annual limitation on the use of our loss carryforwards which existed at November 30, 2009 for the first “ownership change” and those that existed at May 1, 2013 for the second “ownership change.”  The limitation on our ability to use our loss carryforwards, in conjunction with the loss carryforward expiration provisions, could reduce our ability to use a portion of our loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income, which could result in us being required to make material cash tax payments.  Our ability to make such income tax payments, if any, will depend at such time on our liquidity or our ability to raise additional capital, and/or on receipt of payments or distributions from Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries.   If we were to experience a third ownership change in the future (as a result of the transactions with TWC, Bright House and Liberty Broadband or from purchases and sales of stock by our “5-percent stockholders,” new issuances or redemptions of our stock, certain acquisitions of our stock and issuances, redemptions, sales or other dispositions or acquisitions of interests in our “5-percent stockholders”), our ability to use our loss carryforwards could become subject to further limitations.  Our common stock is subject to certain transfer restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation.  These restrictions, which are designed to minimize the likelihood of an ownership change occurring and thereby preserve our ability to utilize our loss carryforwards, are not currently operative but could become operative in the future if certain events occur and the restrictions are imposed by our board of directors.  However, there can be no assurance that our board of directors would choose to impose these restrictions or that such restrictions, if imposed, would prevent an ownership change from occurring.  These restrictions will be eliminated if the Bright House Transaction is consummated.  If we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to manage our business could be adversely affected. Our operational results have depended, and our future results will depend, upon the retention and continued performance of our management team. Our ability to retain and hire new key employees for management positions could be impacted adversely by the competitive environment for management talent in the broadband communications industry. The loss of the services of key members of management and the inability or delay in hiring new key employees could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and our future operational and financial results. Our inability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, assets, products or technologies could harm our operating results.We continuously evaluate and pursue small and large acquisitions and strategic investments in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our business or otherwise offer growth or cost-saving opportunities. From time to time, we may enter into letters of intent with companies with which we are negotiating for potential acquisitions or investments, or as to which we are conducting due diligence. An investment in, or acquisition of, complementary businesses, products or technologies in the future could materially decrease the amount of our available cash or require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. We may not be successful in negotiating the terms of any potential acquisition, conducting thorough due diligence, financing the acquisition or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. Our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, or employee or customer issues. Additionally, in connection with any acquisitions we complete, we may not achieve the growth, synergies or other benefits we expected to achieve, and we may incur write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities that could negatively affect our operating results or financial position or could otherwise harm our business. Further, contemplating or completing an acquisition and integrating an acquired business, product or technology, individually or across multiple opportunities, could divert management and employee time and resources from other matters.  See “— Risks Related to the TWC Transaction and Bright House Transaction” for risks specifically related to our proposed acquisitions of TWC and Bright House. 26Risks Related to Ownership Position of Liberty Broadband CorporationLiberty Broadband Corporation owns a significant amount of Charter’s common stock, giving it influence over corporate transactions and other matters.Members of our board of directors include directors who are also officers and directors of our stockholder with the largest ownership.  Dr. John Malone is the Chairman of Liberty Broadband, and Mr. Greg Maffei is the president and chief executive officer of Liberty Broadband.  As of December 31, 2015, Liberty Broadband beneficially held approximately 25.65% of our Class A common stock.  Liberty Broadband has the right to designate up to four directors as nominees for our board of directors through our 2015 annual meeting of stockholders with one designated director to be appointed to each of the Audit Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Compensation and Benefits Committee.  Liberty Broadband may be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate action, such as mergers and other business combination transactions should Liberty Broadband retain a significant ownership interest in us.  Liberty Broadband and its affiliates are not restricted from investing in, and have invested in, and engaged in, other businesses involving or related to the operation of cable television systems, video programming, Internet service, voice or business and financial transactions conducted through broadband interactivity and Internet services.  Liberty Broadband and its affiliates may also engage in other businesses that compete or may in the future compete with us.Liberty Broadband's substantial influence over our management and affairs could create conflicts of interest if Liberty Broadband faced decisions that could have different implications for it and us. Risks Related to the TWC Transaction and the Bright House TransactionIn the event (i) only the TWC Transaction or the TWC Transaction and the Bright House Transaction are completed, former Charter stockholders (excluding Liberty Broadband) will have significantly lower ownership and voting interest in New Charter following the completion of such transactions than they currently have in Charter and will exercise less influence over management, or (ii) only the Bright House Transaction is completed, existing Charter stockholders (excluding Liberty Broadband) will have a reduced ownership and voting interest in Charter following the completion of the Bright House Transaction than they currently have in Charter and will exercise less influence over management.Based on the number of shares of TWC common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2015, and the number of shares of Charter Class A common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2015, it is expected that, immediately after completion of the TWC Transaction, the issuance of shares to Liberty Broadband and the completion of the Bright House Transaction, and depending on the outcome of the election feature contained in the merger agreement, former Charter stockholders (excluding Liberty Broadband) are expected to own between approximately 26% and 24% of New Charter Class A common stock, former TWC stockholders (excluding Liberty Broadband) are expected to own between approximately 41% and 45% of New Charter Class A common stock, A/N is expected to own indirectly (on an as-converted, as-exchanged basis) between approximately 14% and 13% of New Charter Class A common stock and Liberty Broadband is expected to own between approximately 19% and 17% of New Charter Class A common stock. If only the TWC Transaction is completed, it is expected that former Charter stockholders (excluding Liberty Broadband) will own between approximately 30% and 28% of New Charter Class A common stock, former TWC stockholders (excluding Liberty Broadband) will own between approximately 48% and 52% of New Charter Class A common stock and Liberty Broadband will own between approximately 22% and 20% of New Charter Class A common stock. In connection with the TWC Transaction, each TWC stockholder and Charter stockholder will become a stockholder of New Charter with a percentage ownership of New Charter that is significantly smaller than the stockholder’s percentage ownership in TWC and Charter, respectively. Charter stockholders currently have the right to vote for their board of directors and on other matters affecting the applicable company. Consequently, former Charter stockholders (excluding Liberty Broadband) will be able to exercise less influence over the management, operations and policies of New Charter after the TWC Transaction (and the Bright House Transaction, if applicable) than they currently exercise over the management, operations and policies of Charter.If only the Bright House Transaction is completed, it is expected that following the Bright House Transaction existing Charter stockholders (excluding Liberty Broadband) will own approximately 52% of Charter Class A common stock, Liberty Broadband will own approximately 20% of Charter Class A common stock and A/N will indirectly own (on an as-converted, as exchanged basis) approximately 28% of Charter Class A common stock. Charter stockholders currently have the right to vote for their board of directors and on other matters affecting Charter. Consequently, assuming the TWC Transaction is not completed but the Bright House Transaction is completed, existing Charter stockholders (excluding Liberty Broadband) will be able to exercise less influence over the management, operations and policies of Charter after the Bright House Transaction than they currently exercise over the management, operations and policies of Charter. 27In order to complete the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, Charter along with TWC and Bright House must obtain certain governmental authorizations, and if such authorizations are not made or granted or are granted with conditions to the parties, completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction may be jeopardized or the anticipated benefits of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction could be reduced.The completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction are each conditioned upon, among other things, the expiration or early termination of the applicable waiting periods under the HSR Act and the required governmental authorizations, including an order of the FCC with respect to the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, having been obtained and being in full force and effect. Although Charter and TWC have agreed in the Merger Agreement, and Charter and Bright House have agreed in the Contribution Agreement, to use reasonable best efforts, subject to certain limitations, to obtain the required governmental authorizations, there can be no assurance that the relevant waiting periods will expire or that the relevant authorizations will be obtained. In addition, the governmental authorities with or from which these authorizations are required generally have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. As a condition to authorization of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, these governmental authorities may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business after completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction. Under the terms of each of the Merger Agreement and Contribution Agreement, subject to certain exceptions, Charter and its subsidiaries are required to accept certain conditions and take certain actions imposed by governmental authorities and accept any other remedies to the extent such actions, conditions or other remedies would not constitute a burdensome condition. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction or imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of New Charter (or, if only the Bright House Transaction is completed, Charter) following the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, or otherwise adversely affecting the business and results of operations of New Charter or Charter, as applicable, after completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction. In addition, there can be no assurance that these conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction.New Charter (or, if only the Bright House Transaction is completed, Charter) may not realize anticipated cost synergies and growth opportunities.New Charter (or, if only the Bright House Transaction is completed, Charter) expects to realize cost synergies, growth opportunities and other financial and operating benefits as a result of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction. The combined company’s success in realizing these cost synergies, growth opportunities and other financial and operating benefits, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of the business operations obtained in the TWC Transaction and the Bright House Transaction. Even if New Charter or Charter, as applicable, is able to integrate the business operations obtained in the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction successfully, it is not possible to predict with certainty if or when these cost synergies, growth opportunities and benefits will occur, or the extent to which they actually will be achieved. For example, the benefits from the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the new business operations or in obtaining or attempting to obtain regulatory approvals for the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, or increased operating costs that may be experienced as a result of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction. Realization of any benefits and cost synergies could be affected by the factors described in other risk factors and a number of factors beyond New Charter’s or Charter’s control, as applicable, including, without limitation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs, the response of competitors and vendors and regulatory developments.If New Charter (or, if only the Bright House Transaction is completed, Charter) is not able to successfully integrate Charter’s business with that of TWC and/or Bright House within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated cost savings and other benefits of the TWC Transaction and/or Bright House Transaction may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. In such circumstances, in the event the TWC Transaction (and, if applicable, the Bright House Transaction) are completed, New Charter may not perform as expected and the value of the New Charter Class A common stock (including the merger consideration) may be adversely affected.Charter, TWC and Bright House have operated and, until completion of the TWC Transaction and/or Bright House Transaction will continue to operate, independently, and there can be no assurances that their businesses can be integrated successfully. After consummation of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction the combined company will have significantly more systems, assets, investments, businesses, customers and employees than each company did prior to the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key Charter, TWC and/or Bright House employees, the loss of subscribers and customers, the disruption of the companies’ ongoing businesses or in unexpected integration issues, higher than expected integration costs and an overall post-completion integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated. The process of integrating TWC, Bright House, or TWC and Bright House, with the businesses Charter operated prior to the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction will require significant capital expenditures and the  28expansion of certain operations and operating and financial systems. Management of each company will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the integration process before the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction is completed. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. These difficulties include:•integrating the companies’ operations and corporate functions;•integrating the companies’ technologies, networks and customer service platforms;•integrating and unifying the product offerings and services available to customers;•harmonizing the companies’ operating practices, employee development and compensation programs, internal controls and other policies, procedures and processes;•maintaining existing relationships and agreements with customers, providers, programmers and other vendors and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers, providers and vendors;•addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies;•consolidating the companies’ administrative and information technology infrastructure;•coordinating programming and marketing efforts;•coordinating geographically dispersed organizations;•integrating information, purchasing, provisioning, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll, reporting and regulatory compliance systems;•integrating and unifying the product offerings and services available to customers, including customer premise equipment and video user interfaces;•completing the conversion of analog systems to all-digital for the systems to be acquired from TWC and Bright House;•managing a significantly larger company than before the completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction; and•attracting and retaining the necessary personnel associated with the acquired assets.Even if the new businesses are successfully integrated, it may not be possible to realize the benefits that are expected to result from the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is expected. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the TWC Transaction and/or Bright House Transaction may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the businesses and increased operating costs. If the combined company fails to realize the anticipated benefits from the transactions, its liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and/or share price may be adversely affected. In addition, at times, the attention of certain members of Charter’s, TWC’s and/or Bright House’s management and resources may be focused on the completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction and the integration of the businesses and diverted from day-to-day business operations, which may disrupt each company’s business and the business of the combined company.The substantial indebtedness that will be incurred by New Charter in connection with the TWC Transaction and/or Bright House Transaction could adversely affect New Charter’s operations and financial condition after the TWC Transaction and the Bright House Transaction.As of December 31, 2015, our total principal amount of debt was approximately $35.9 billion, including $21.8 billion of debt for which proceeds are held in escrow pending consummation of the TWC Transaction.  New Charter’s and its subsidiaries’ indebtedness could have negative consequences to New Charter after the TWC Transaction and/or Bright House Transaction, such as:•requiring New Charter to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operating activities to payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, potential strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;•limiting New Charter’s ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital or capital expenditures, or to fulfill debt service requirements or other cash requirements;•exposing New Charter to increased interest expense to the extent New Charter refinances existing debt with higher cost debt;•to the extent that New Charter’s debt is subject to floating interest rates, increasing New Charter’s vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest rates;•placing New Charter at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt;•adversely affecting New Charter’s relationship with customers and suppliers;•limiting New Charter’s flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business, the cable and telecommunications industries, and the economy at large; and•limiting New Charter’s ability to buy back New Charter Class A common stock or pay cash dividends.If current debt amounts increase, the related risks that Charter now faces may intensify. 29Because of high debt levels, New Charter may not be able to service its debt obligations in accordance with their terms after the TWC Transaction and/or Bright House Transaction.New Charter’s ability to meet its expense and debt service obligations contained in the agreements governing New Charter’s indebtedness will depend on its future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in customer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. Should New Charter’s revenues decline after the TWC Transaction and/or Bright House Transaction, it may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay its debt service obligations when due. If New Charter is unable to meet its debt service obligations after the TWC Transaction and/or Bright House Transaction or should it fail to comply with its financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing New Charter’s indebtedness, New Charter may be required to refinance all or part of its debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices or borrow more money. New Charter may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to New Charter or at all. The inability of New Charter to refinance its debt could have a material adverse effect on New Charter’s financial condition and results from operations after the TWC Transaction and/or Bright House Transaction.New Charter will be dependent on an equity financing from Liberty Broadband to partially finance the TWC Transaction.Charter plans to use the proceeds of $4.3 billion from the purchase by Liberty Broadband of New Charter Class A common stock to partially fund the TWC Transaction. Liberty Broadband will primarily rely on proceeds from third-party investors to fund the investment in New Charter Class A common stock, and Liberty Broadband has secured commitments for such financing through investment agreements with such third parties. Charter cannot guarantee that Liberty Broadband will successfully complete these transactions with such third-party investors. The TWC Transaction is not conditioned on the receipt of financing, including financing from Liberty Broadband.Charter, TWC and Bright House may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other employees in light of the TWC Transaction and the Bright House Transaction.Uncertainty about the effect of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction on Charter, TWC and Bright House employees may impair Charter’s, TWC’s and Bright House’s ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel prior to and following the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined business. In addition, certain employees potentially could terminate their employment for good reason and collect severance if certain specified circumstances set forth in their employment agreements occur following the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, including certain changes in such employees’ duties, position, compensation and benefits or primary office location. If employees of Charter, TWC or Bright House depart, the integration of the companies may be more difficult and the combined company’s business following the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction may be harmed. Furthermore, New Charter (or, if only the Bright House Transaction is completed, Charter) may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring and retaining replacements for departing employees and may lose significant expertise and talent relating to the businesses of Charter, TWC and/or Bright House, and the combined company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction may be adversely affected. In addition, there could be disruptions to or distractions for the workforce and management associated with activities of labor unions or integrating employees into New Charter.A delay in the completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction may diminish the anticipated benefits of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction.Completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental consents and approvals, orders, authorizations, and rulings, including the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period (or extension thereof) under the HSR Act and the adoption of an order, by the FCC and any other requisite governmental entity granting its consent to the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction. The requirement to receive these consents and approvals, orders, authorizations and rulings before the TWC Transaction could delay the completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction if, for example, government agencies request additional information from the parties in order to facilitate their review of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction or require any conditions precedent to granting their approval of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction. In addition, these governmental agencies may attempt to condition their approval of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction on the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on New Charter (or, if only the Bright House Transaction is completed, Charter) after the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, including but not limited to its operating results or the value of New Charter Class A common stock (or, if only the Bright House Transaction is completed, Charter Class A common stock). Any delay  30in the completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction could diminish the anticipated benefits of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction or result in additional transaction costs, including interest expense for debt incurred in anticipation of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction. Any uncertainty over the ability of the companies to complete the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction could make it more difficult for Charter, TWC and Bright House to retain key employees or to pursue business strategies.Prior to the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, Charter, TWC and/or Bright House, as applicable, and after the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, the combined company, will incur significant transaction-related costs in connection with the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction.Prior to the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, Charter, TWC and/or Bright House, as applicable, and after the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, the combined company, expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction before, at, and after closing the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction. If the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, Charter will be required to pay to TWC certain termination fees. Charter and/or New Charter also will incur transaction fees and costs related to financing (including interest and fees with any pre-funding of the consideration to be paid in the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction) and formulating and implementing integration plans, including facilities and systems implementation costs and employment-related costs. Some of these costs have already been incurred or may be incurred regardless of whether the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction is completed, including a portion of the fees and expenses of financial advisors and other advisors and representatives and filing fees for the proxy statement. While many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time, management of Charter continues to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in connection with the TWC Transaction and integration. There are a number of factors beyond the control of the parties that could affect the total amount or the timing of all of the expected integration expenses. Although the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should offset integration-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. These integration expenses may result in Charter and/or New Charter taking significant charges against earnings following the completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction. In addition, if the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction is not consummated, Charter will bear some or all of these costs without the benefit of efficiencies from the integration of the businesses. Such costs could have a material adverse impact on Charter and/or New Charter’s financial results.Sales of New Charter Class A common stock after the TWC Transaction (and, if completed, the Bright House Transaction) may negatively affect the market price of New Charter Class A common stock.The shares of New Charter Class A common stock to be issued in the TWC Transaction to holders of TWC common stock will generally be eligible for immediate resale. The market price of New Charter Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of New Charter Class A common stock in the market after the consummation of the TWC Transaction (and, if completed, the Bright House Transaction) or even the perception that these sales could occur.Charter’s, TWC’s and Bright House’s business relationships may be subject to disruption due to uncertainty associated with the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction.Parties with which Charter, TWC or Bright House do business may experience uncertainty associated with the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, including with respect to current or future business relationships with Charter, TWC, Bright House or the combined business. Charter’s, TWC’s and Bright House’s business relationships may be subject to disruption as customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors and others may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties excluding Charter, TWC, Bright House or the combined business. These disruptions, which may exist for an extended period of time if completion of the TWC Transaction (and, if completed, the Bright House Transaction) is delayed, could have an adverse effect on the businesses, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of the combined business, including an adverse effect on New Charter’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the TWC Transaction (and, if completed, the Bright House Transaction). The risk, and adverse effect, of such disruptions could be exacerbated by a delay in completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction or termination of the merger agreement and/or the Bright House contribution agreement. 31Failure to complete the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction could negatively impact the stock price and the future business and financial results of Charter.If the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction is not completed for any reason, the ongoing business of Charter may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction, Charter would be subject to a number of risks, including the following:•Charter may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on its stock price;•Charter may experience negative reactions from its customers, regulators and employees;•Charter will be required to pay certain costs relating to the TWC Transaction, whether or not the TWC Transaction is completed and Charter will be required to pay certain costs relating to the Bright House Transaction, whether or not the Bright House Transaction is completed;•the Merger Agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of TWC’s and Charter’s businesses prior to completion of the TWC Transaction; such restrictions, the waiver of which is subject to the consent of the other party (in certain cases, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), may prevent TWC and Charter from making certain acquisitions, taking certain other specified actions or otherwise pursuing business opportunities during the pendency of the TWC Transaction;•the Contribution Agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of Charter’s business prior to completion of the Bright House Transaction; such restrictions, the waiver of which is subject to the consent of A/N (in certain cases, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), may prevent Charter from taking certain specified actions or otherwise pursuing business opportunities during the pendency of the Bright House Transaction; and•matters relating to the TWC Transaction (and with respect to Charter only, matters relating to the Bright House contribution), including integration planning, will require substantial commitments of time and resources by Charter and TWC management, which would otherwise have been devoted to day-to-day operations and other opportunities that may have been beneficial to either Charter or TWC as an independent company.If the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction is not completed, the risks described above may materialize and they may adversely affect Charter’s business, financial condition, financial results and stock price.In addition, Charter and TWC could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against Charter or TWC to perform their respective obligations under the Merger Agreement or against Charter to perform it obligations under the Contribution Agreement.If the operating results of TWC and/or Bright House before or following the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction is less than Charter’s and/or New Charter’s expectations, or an increase in the capital expenditures to upgrade and maintain those assets as well as to keep pace with technological developments are greater than expected, New Charter (or, if only the Bright House Transaction is completed, Charter) may not achieve the expected level of financial results from the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction.New Charter (or, if only the Bright House Transaction is completed, Charter) will derive a portion of its revenues and earnings per share from the operation of TWC and/or Bright House following completion of the TWC Transaction and/or Bright House Transaction. Therefore, any negative impact on these companies or the operating results derived from such companies could harm the combined company’s operating results.The businesses of Charter, TWC, Bright House and New Charter are characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services. New Charter (or, if only the Bright House Transaction is completed, Charter) intends to make investments in the combined business following the completion of the TWC Transaction and/or the Bright House Transaction and transition toward only using two-way all-digital set-top boxes. The increase in capital expenditures necessary for the transition toward two-way set-top boxes in the business may negatively impact the expected financial results from the TWC Transaction and/or Bright House Transaction. The combined company may not be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, execute the plans to do so, or anticipate the demand of its customers for products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth. New Charter’s (or, if only the Bright House Transaction is completed, Charter’s) inability to maintain, expand and upgrade its existing or combined businesses could materially adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.The TWC Transaction and the Bright House Transaction will be accounted for as an acquisition by New Charter in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of TWC and Bright House will be recorded, as of the date of completion of the TWC Transaction, the Bright House Transaction and Liberty transactions, at their respective fair values and added to those of Charter. The reported financial condition  32and results of operations of New Charter issued after completion of the TWC Transaction, the Bright House Transaction and Liberty transactions will reflect New Charter balances and results after completion of the TWC Transaction, the Bright House Transaction and Liberty transactions, but will not be restated retroactively to reflect the historical financial position or results of operations of New Charter for periods prior to the TWC Transaction, the Bright House Transaction and Liberty transactions. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total purchase price will be allocated to TWC’s and Bright House’s tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the TWC Transaction, the Bright House Transaction and Liberty transactions. The excess of the purchase price over those fair values will be recorded as goodwill. Charter, TWC and Bright House expect that the TWC Transaction and the Bright House Transaction will result in the creation of goodwill based upon the application of the acquisition method of accounting. To the extent the value of goodwill or intangibles becomes impaired, New Charter may be required to incur material charges relating to such impairment. Such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on New Charter’s operating results. Risks Related to the TWC TransactionCompletion of the TWC Transaction is subject to a number of conditions and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the TWC Transaction will not be completed.The obligations of Charter and TWC to complete the TWC Transaction is subject to satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions, including, among others:•expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period (or extension thereof) under the HSR Act relating to the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement (solely with respect to the obligations of each of Charter, New Charter, Merger Subsidiary One, Merger Subsidiary Two and Merger Subsidiary Three to complete the TWC Transaction, without the imposition of any burdensome condition);•(i) adoption of an order, and release of the full text thereof, by the FCC granting its consent to the transfer of control or assignment of the licenses issued by the FCC to TWC or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, (ii) approval of certain LFAs, such that the sum of the aggregate number of video subscribers of TWC belonging to franchise areas for which either (x) no LFA consent is required or (y) if LFA consent is required, such consent shall have been obtained, shall be no less than 85% of the aggregate number of video subscribers of TWC and (iii) authorizations of state public utilities commissions whose consent is required in connection with the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement (solely with respect to the obligations of each of Charter, New Charter, Merger Subsidiary One, Merger Subsidiary Two and Merger Subsidiary Three to complete the TWC Transaction, in each case without the imposition of any burdensome condition);•except for the conditions described in the two preceding bullets, (i) absence of (x) any applicable law of a governmental authority of competent jurisdiction enacted or promulgated after the date of the merger agreement in a jurisdiction in which any of Charter, TWC or their respective subsidiaries has substantial operations and (y) any order of a governmental authority of competent jurisdiction that, in each case, (1) imposes any burdensome condition or (2) prohibits completion of the TWC Transaction and the violation of which would result in criminal liability, and (ii) the absence of any injunction (whether temporary, preliminary or permanent) by any governmental authority of competent jurisdiction that imposes a burdensome condition or prohibits completion of the TWC Transaction;•approval for the listing on NASDAQ of the shares of New Charter Class A common stock to be issued in the TWC Transaction, subject only to official notice of issuance; •accuracy of the representations and warranties made in the merger agreement by the other party, subject to certain materiality thresholds;•performance in all material respects by the other party of the material obligations required to be performed by it at or prior to completion of the TWC Transaction;•the absence of a material adverse effect on the other party;•receipt of a certificate executed by an executive officer of the other party as to the satisfaction of the conditions described in the preceding three bullets with respect to such other party; and•delivery of opinions of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, in the case of Charter, and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, in the case of TWC, with respect to certain tax aspects of the TWC Transaction.There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the TWC Transaction will be satisfied or waived or that the TWC Transaction will be completed. There can be no assurance that these conditions will not result in the abandonment or delay of the TWC Transaction. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on the companies’ results of operations and the trading price of the TWC common stock or Charter Class A common stock. 33The TWC Transaction is not conditioned upon completion of the Bright House Transaction or the issuance of shares to A/N. The TWC Transaction and the Bright House Transaction is subject to separate conditions, and the TWC Transaction may be completed whether or not the Bright House Transaction is ultimately consummated. The market price of New Charter Class A common stock after the TWC Transaction (and, if completed, the Bright House Transaction) may be affected by factors different from those affecting shares of Charter or TWC common stock currently.Upon completion of the TWC Transaction, holders of Charter Class A common stock will become holders of shares of New Charter Class A common stock. The businesses of Charter differ from those of TWC in important respects, including the following:•Differences in product penetration and mix, including different approaches to pricing and packaging;•Differences in the geographic operating areas served by Charter, TWC and Bright House as well as different presences in those areas, different structures and different competitive factors in those areas;•Differences in the technology platforms and physical plant and property used to deliver the companies’ respective products and services, including that Charter’s platform has generally been converted to all digital;•Differences in the companies’ corporate and organizational structure;•TWC engages in telecom and Internet infrastructure businesses, including through its subsidiary DukeNet Communications;•TWC engages in information technology ("IT") and cloud businesses, including through its NaviSite subsidiary, outsourced IT solutions and cloud services;•TWC operates and distributes regional sports networks and local sports, news and lifestyle channels; and•Differences in the potential tax treatment of historical transactions of both Charter and TWC.Accordingly, the results of operations, including capital expenditures, of New Charter after the TWC Transaction (and, if completed, the Bright House Transaction), as well as the market price of New Charter Class A common stock, may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the results of operations, including capital expenditures, of Charter and TWC currently. The shares of New Charter Class A common stock to be received by TWC and Charter stockholders as a result of the TWC Transaction will have different rights from shares of TWC common stock and Charter Class A common stock previously held by such stockholders.Following completion of the TWC Transaction, TWC and Charter stockholders will no longer be stockholders of TWC and Charter, respectively, but will instead be stockholders of New Charter. There are important differences between the rights of TWC and Charter stockholders and the rights of New Charter stockholders. Litigation has been filed against Charter, TWC, the TWC board of directors and the merger subsidiaries. An adverse ruling in such lawsuit may result in the payment of damages following completion of the TWC Transaction.Litigation has been filed against Charter, Charter's board of directors, TWC, the TWC board of directors and the merger subsidiaries in connection with the TWC Transaction, which could result in substantial costs to Charter, TWC, and/or New Charter. See “Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for more information.Risks Related to the Bright House Transaction and Liberty TransactionsLiberty Broadband currently has governance rights that give it influence over corporate transactions and other matters. In connection with the Bright House Transaction, Liberty Broadband’s governance rights will be modified and A/N will receive governance rights pursuant to the Bright House/Liberty stockholders agreement and amendments to New Charter’s or Charter’s governing documents, as applicable, and Liberty Broadband and A/N will have influence over corporate transactions and other matters.Liberty Broadband currently owns a significant amount of Charter Class A common stock and is entitled to certain governance rights with respect to Charter. Members of the Charter board of directors include directors who are also officers and directors of Liberty Broadband. Dr. John Malone is the Chairman of Liberty Broadband, and Mr. Greg Maffei is the president and chief executive officer of Liberty Broadband. As of December 31, 2015, Liberty Broadband beneficially held approximately 25.65% of Charter Class A common stock. Pursuant to the stockholders agreement between Liberty Broadband and Charter dated March 19, 2013, as amended on October 14, 2014, Liberty Broadband has the right to designate up to four directors as nominees for Charter’s board of directors through Charter’s 2015 annual meeting of stockholders with one designated director to be appointed to each of the audit committee, the nominating and corporate governance committee and the compensation and benefits committee. 34In connection with the Bright House Transaction, Charter and New Charter entered into the Bright House/Liberty stockholders agreement with A/N and Liberty Broadband, which will supersede the existing stockholders agreement in its entirety upon the earlier to occur of the closing of the TWC Transaction and the closing of the Bright House Transaction, unless the Bright House contribution agreement is terminated prior to the closing of the Bright House Transaction. Following the closing of the TWC Transaction and the Bright House Transaction, Charter expects that Liberty Broadband will have an equity interest of between approximately 19% and 17% and A/N will have an equity interest of between approximately 14% and 13%, in each case on an as-converted, as-exchanged basis, in New Charter. In connection with the TWC Transaction, Liberty Broadband and Liberty Interactive entered into a proxy and right of first refusal agreement, pursuant to which, in connection with the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, Liberty Interactive will grant Liberty Broadband an irrevocable proxy to vote all New Charter Class A common stock owned beneficially or of record by Liberty Interactive following such closing, with certain exceptions. In addition, at the closing of the Bright House Transaction, A/N and Liberty Broadband will enter into a proxy agreement pursuant to which A/N will grant to Liberty Broadband a 5-year irrevocable proxy (which we refer to as the “A/N proxy”) to vote, subject to certain exceptions, that number of shares of New Charter Class A common stock and New Charter Class B common stock, in each case held by A/N (such shares are referred to as the “proxy shares”), that will result in Liberty Broadband having voting power in New Charter equal to 25.01% of the outstanding voting power of New Charter, provided, that the voting power of the proxy shares will be capped at 7.0% of the outstanding voting power of New Charter. Therefore, giving effect to the Liberty Interactive proxy and the A/N proxy and the voting cap contained in the Bright House/Liberty stockholders agreement, Liberty Broadband is expected to have 25.01% of the outstanding voting power in New Charter following the consummation of the TWC Transaction and Bright House Transaction. The Bright House/Liberty stockholders agreement and New Charter’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation will fix the size of the board at 13 directors, and three designees selected by Liberty Broadband and two designees selected by A/N will become members of the New Charter board of directors. Thereafter, Liberty Broadband will be entitled to designate three nominees to be elected as directors and A/N will be entitled to designate two nominees to be elected as directors, in each case provided that each maintains certain specified voting or equity ownership thresholds and each nominee meets certain applicable requirements or qualifications. Liberty Broadband and A/N are required to vote (subject to the applicable voting cap) their respective shares of New Charter Class A common stock and New Charter Class B common stock for the director nominees nominated by the nominating and corporate governance committee of the board of directors, including the respective designees of Liberty Broadband and A/N, and against any other nominees, except that, with respect to the unaffiliated directors, Liberty Broadband and A/N must instead vote in the same proportion as the voting securities are voted by stockholders other than A/N and Liberty Broadband or any group which includes any of them are voted, if doing so would cause a different outcome with respect to the unaffiliated directors. As a result of their rights under the Bright House/Liberty stockholders agreement and their significant equity and voting stakes in New Charter, Liberty Broadband and/or A/N, who may have interests different from those of other stockholders, will be able to exercise substantial influence over certain matters relating to the governance of New Charter, including the approval of significant corporate actions, such as mergers and other business combination transactions.The Bright House/Liberty stockholders agreement will provide A/N and Liberty Broadband with preemptive rights with respect to issuances of New Charter equity in connection with certain transactions, and in the event that A/N or Liberty Broadband exercises these rights, holders of Charter Class A common stock may experience further dilution.The Bright House/Liberty stockholders agreement provides that A/N and Liberty Broadband will have certain contractual preemptive rights over issuances of New Charter equity securities in connection with capital raising transactions, merger and acquisition transactions, and in certain other circumstances. Holders of New Charter Class A common stock will not be entitled to similar preemptive rights with respect to such transactions. As a result, if Liberty Broadband and/or A/N elect to exercise their preemptive rights, (i) these parties would not experience the dilution experienced by the other holders of New Charter Class A common stock, and (ii) such other holders of New Charter Class A common stock may experience further dilution of their interest in New Charter upon such exercise.Completion of the Bright House Transaction is subject to a number of conditions and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the Bright House Transaction will not be completed.The obligation of Charter and New Charter and the obligation of A/N to complete the Bright House Transaction is subject to satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions, including, among others:•the consummation of the TWC Transaction, except in certain circumstances;•expiration or termination of the HSR Act waiting period and receipt of certain regulatory approvals for the Bright House Transaction (and with respect to Charter’s obligations, without the imposition of a Bright House contribution burdensome condition); 35•obtaining all of the required consents by the FCC to the transfer to Charter of all FCC licenses, authorizations, permits and consents held by Bright House or its subsidiaries and/or used in the Bright House business (solely with respect to Charter, New Charter and Charter Holdings, without the imposition of a Bright House contribution burdensome);•the aggregate number of video customers served by the Bright House systems used in the Bright House business (i) pursuant to the “grandfathering” provisions of the Communications Act and (ii) pursuant to franchises for which (A) no consent is required from any government entity for the completion of the Bright House contribution or (B) any such consent is required and has been received (or deemed received under Section 617 of the Communications Act) (solely with respect to the obligations of Charter, New Charter and Charter Holdings, without the imposition of a Bright House contribution burdensome condition) shall not be less than 80% of the video customers served by the Bright House systems used in the Bright House business at the closing; and if less than 100% of such number of video customers, all applicable waiting periods (including extensions) shall have expired with respect to the FCC Forms 394 filed in connection with requests for approvals by local franchising authorities that have not been obtained;•obtaining authorizations from state communications authorities as required for Charter to provide voice and other regulated services in the Bright House systems used in the Bright House business following the closing (solely with respect to the obligations of Charter, New Charter and Charter Holdings, without the imposition of a Bright House contribution burdensome condition);•the absence of any statute, rule, regulation, executive order, decree, judgment, injunction or other order (whether temporary, preliminary or permanent) in effect that makes unlawful, prohibits, delays, enjoins or otherwise prevents or restricts, the consummation of the Bright House Transaction or any pending action that seeks any of the foregoing;•the Bright House/Liberty stockholders agreement being valid, binding and enforceable and in full force and effect;•with respect to the obligations of Charter, New Charter and Charter Holdings, the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to Bright House;•with respect to A/N’s obligations, the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to Charter; and•certain other customary conditions with respect to the accuracy of representations and warranties, performance of covenants and agreements, receipt of certifications with respect to the satisfaction of certain conditions, and delivery of certain other specified certificates, instruments of assignment and transaction documents.As more fully described in the Contribution Agreement, the obligation of Charter, New Charter and Charter Holdings to complete the Bright House Transaction is also subject to the completion by A/N of a restructuring, pursuant to which Bright House will transfer to A/N certain excluded assets and A/N shall assume from Bright House certain excluded liabilities.There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the Bright House Transaction will be satisfied or waived or that the Bright House Transaction will be completed. The consummation of the Bright House Transaction is conditioned on the completion of the TWC Transaction. However, if the TWC Transaction is not completed, Charter and A/N may still be obligated to complete the Bright House Transaction under certain circumstances if the tail condition is satisfied. There can be no assurance that the Bright House Transaction will be completed if the TWC Transaction is not completed.Risks Related to Regulatory and Legislative Matters Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation, which could adversely affect our business.Regulation of the cable industry has increased cable operators' operational and administrative expenses and limited their revenues.  Cable operators are subject to various laws and regulations including those covering the following:•the provisioning and marketing of cable equipment and compatibility with new digital technologies;•customer and employee privacy and data security;•limited rate regulation of video service;•copyright royalties for retransmitting broadcast signals;•when a cable system must carry a particular broadcast station and when it must first obtain retransmission consent to carry a broadcast station;•the provision of channel capacity to unaffiliated commercial leased access programmers;•limitations on our ability to enter into exclusive agreements with multiple dwelling unit complexes and control our inside wiring;•the provision of high-speed Internet service, including net neutrality or open Internet rules;•the provision of voice communications;•cable franchise renewals and transfers; •equal employment opportunity, emergency alert systems, disability access, technical standards, marketing practices, customer service, and consumer protection; and 36•approval for mergers and acquisitions often accompanied by the imposition of restrictions and requirements on an applicant's business in order to secure approval of the proposed transaction.Additionally, many aspects of these laws and regulations are often the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals.  There are also ongoing efforts to amend or expand the federal, state, and local regulation of some of the services offered over our cable systems, which may compound the regulatory risks we already face, and proposals that might make it easier for our employees to unionize.  Some states are considering adopting energy efficiency regulations governing the operation of equipment (such as broadband modems) that we use to deliver Internet services, which could constrain innovation in broadband services and equipment.  Congress and various federal agencies are also considering legislation and rules that would further regulate us, such as new privacy restrictions and new restrictions on the use of personal and profiling information for behavioral advertising.  In response to recent global data breaches, malicious activity and cyber threats, as well as the general increasing concerns regarding the protection of consumers’ personal information, Congress and various federal agencies are also considering the adoption of new data security and cybersecurity legislation and regulation that could result in additional network and information security requirements for our business. These new laws, as well as existing legal and regulatory obligations, and increased enforcement by the FCC and other agencies, could affect our operations and require significant expenditures.  In addition, federal, state, and local regulators could deny necessary approval of the Transactions or impose additional regulatory conditions in connection with their review of the Transactions that could affect our operations.Changes to existing statutes, rules, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or adoption of new ones, could have an adverse effect on Charter’s business. Legislators and regulators at all levels of government frequently consider changing, and sometimes do change, existing statutes, rules, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or prescribe new ones. Any future legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative actions may increase Charter’s costs or impose additional restrictions on Charter’s businesses. For example, on February 26, 2015, the FCC adopted an order that (1) reclassified broadband Internet service as a Title II service, (2) applied certain existing Title II provisions and associated regulations (including requiring that rates and practices be just, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory, allowing complaints in court and before the FCC, imposing privacy and disability obligations, and providing broadband providers with access to poles and conduits), (3) forbore from applying a range of other existing Title II provisions and associated regulations, but to varying degrees indicated that this forbearance may be only temporary, and (4) issued new rules expanding disclosure requirements and prohibiting blocking, throttling, paid prioritization, and unreasonable interference with the ability of end users and edge providers to reach each other. The order also subjected broadband providers’ Internet traffic exchange rates and practices to potential FCC oversight for the first time and created a mechanism for third parties to file complaints regarding these matters. The order has been appealed by multiple parties, but the rules are currently in effect (except for the expanded disclosure requirements, which will not become effective until they receive approval from the Office of Management and Budget). The order could have a material adverse effect on Charter’s business and results of operations. The FCC is also considering the appropriate regulatory framework for VoIP service, including whether that service should be regulated under Title II. While Charter cannot predict what rules the FCC will adopt as part of these rulemakings, any changes to the regulatory framework for Charter’s Internet or VoIP services could have a negative impact on its business and results of operations.The FCC is considering numerous other regulatory changes, including the possibility of new navigation device rules in response to Congress’ recent elimination of the FCC’s “integration ban,” which had required cable operators to include a separate security module (i.e., a “CableCARD”) in all set-top boxes.  On January 27, 2016, the FCC Chairman announced that he had circulated a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to the other FCC commissioners for vote on February 18, 2016 and outlined his proposal regarding navigation devices.  If adopted, the Chairman’s proposal would require us to allow navigation devices on our network if the navigation devices meet standards to be developed by a third party standard setting body envisioned by the proposed rules regardless of the manufacturer of the device.  It remains uncertain what rules, if any, will ultimately be adopted and what operating or financial impact any such rules might have on us including on the security of the content we obtain from programmers that is delivered over any third party navigation device, customer privacy and the user experience.  In addition, the FCC’s Enforcement Bureau is actively investigating various industry practices and imposing forfeitures for alleged regulatory violations.  Our cable system franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination. The failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business.Our cable systems generally operate pursuant to franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by a state or local governmental authority controlling the public rights-of-way.  Many franchises establish comprehensive facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance.  In many cases, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with significant provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system operations.  Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms and must be periodically renewed.  Franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate.  Franchise authorities  37often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal.  In some instances, local franchises have not been renewed at expiration, and we have operated and are operating under either temporary operating agreements or without a franchise while negotiating renewal terms with the local franchising authorities.The traditional cable franchising regime has undergone significant change as a result of various federal and state actions.  Some state franchising laws do not allow incumbent operators like us to opt into favorable statewide franchising as quickly as new entrants, and often require us to retain certain franchise obligations that are more burdensome than those applied to new entrants.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all significant provisions of our franchise agreements and certain of our franchisers have from time to time alleged that we have not complied with these agreements.  Additionally, although historically we have renewed our franchises without incurring significant costs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew, or to renew as favorably, our franchises in the future.  A termination of or a sustained failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business in the affected geographic area.Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Accordingly, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises and create additional competition for our products, resulting in overbuilds, which could adversely affect results of operations.Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive.  Consequently, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises to competitors in the same geographic area or operate their own cable systems.  In some cases, local government entities and municipal utilities may legally compete with us on more favorable terms.  The FCC recently adopted an order (currently under appeal) rejecting state laws in North Carolina and Tennessee that restricted municipalities from providing broadband service.   In addition, potential competitors (like Google) have recently pursued and obtained local franchises that are more favorable than the incumbent operator’s franchise.  As a result, competing operators may build systems in areas in which we hold franchises.The FCC has adopted rules that streamline entry for new competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduce franchising burdens for these new entrants.  At the same time, a substantial number of states have adopted new franchising laws, principally designed to streamline entry for new competitors, and often provide advantages for these new entrants that are not immediately available to existing operators.  Broadband delivery of video content is not necessarily subject to the same franchising obligations applicable to our traditional cable systems.The FCC administers a program that collects Universal Service Fund contributions from telecommunications service providers and uses them to subsidize the provision of telecommunications services in high-cost areas and to low-income consumers and the provision of Internet and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care providers.  A variety of regulatory changes may lead the FCC to expand the collection of Universal Service Fund contributions to encompass Internet service providers.  The FCC already has begun to redirect the expenditure of some Universal Service Funding to broadband deployment in ways that could assist competitors in competing with our services. Local franchise authorities have the ability to impose additional regulatory constraints on our business, which could further increase our expenses.In addition to the franchise agreement, cable authorities in some jurisdictions have adopted cable regulatory ordinances that further regulate the operation of cable systems.  This additional regulation increases the cost of operating our business.  Local franchising authorities may impose new and more restrictive requirements.  Local franchising authorities who are certified to regulate rates in the communities where they operate generally have the power to reduce rates and order refunds on the rates charged for basic service and equipment.Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  We operate cable systems in locations throughout the United States and, as a result, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of federal, state and local governments. From time to time, various legislative and/or administrative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. Certain states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on our services or changing the methodologies or base on which certain fees and taxes are computed.  The federal Internet Tax Freedom Act, which prohibits many taxes on Internet access service, will expire October 1, 2016, unless it is renewed by Congress. Potential changes include additional taxes or fees on our services which could impact our customers, combined reporting and other changes to general business taxes, central/unit-level assessment of property taxes and other matters that could increase our income, franchise, sales, use and/or property tax liabilities. In addition, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations  38are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.Further regulation of the cable industry could impair our ability to raise rates to cover our increasing costs, resulting in increased losses.Currently, rate regulation of cable systems is strictly limited to the basic service tier and associated equipment and installation activities, and the FCC recently revised its rules, in response to changed market conditions, to make it more difficult for local franchising authorities to assert rate regulation authority.  However, the FCC and Congress continue to be concerned that cable rate increases are exceeding inflation.  It is possible that either the FCC or Congress will further restrict the ability of cable system operators to implement rate increases for our video services or even for our high-speed Internet and voice services.  Should this occur, it would impede our ability to raise our rates.  If we are unable to raise our rates in response to increasing costs, our losses would increase.There has been legislative and regulatory interest in requiring companies that own multiple cable networks to make each of them available on a standalone, rather than a bundled basis to cable operators, and in requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled programming services on an á la carte basis to consumers.   While any new regulation or legislation designed to enable cable operators to purchase programming on a standalone basis could be beneficial to Charter, any regulation or legislation that limits how we sell programming could adversely affect our business.Actions by pole owners might subject us to significantly increased pole attachment costs.Pole attachments are cable wires that are attached to utility poles.  Cable system attachments to investor-owned public utility poles historically have been regulated at the federal or state level, generally resulting in favorable pole attachment rates for attachments used to provide cable service.  In contrast, utility poles owned by municipalities or cooperatives are not subject to federal regulation and are generally exempt from state regulation.  Future regulatory changes in this area could impact the pole attachment rates we pay utility companies.Changes in channel carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on us.Cable operators also face significant regulation of their video channel carriage.  We can be required to devote substantial capacity to the carriage of programming that we might not carry voluntarily, including certain local broadcast signals; local public, educational and governmental access (“PEG”) programming; and unaffiliated, commercial leased access programming (required channel capacity for use by persons unaffiliated with the cable operator who desire to distribute programming over a cable system). The FCC adopted revised commercial leased access rules which would dramatically reduce the rate we can charge for leasing this capacity and dramatically increase our administrative burdens, but these remain stayed while under appeal.  Legislation has been introduced in Congress in the past that, if adopted, could impact our carriage of broadcast signals by simultaneously eliminating the cable industry’s compulsory copyright license and the retransmission consent requirements governing cable’s retransmission of broadcast signals. The FCC also continues to consider changes to the rules affecting the relationship between programmers (including broadcasters) and multichannel video distributors.   Future regulatory changes could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our preferred use of limited channel capacity, increase our programming costs, and limit our ability to offer services that would maximize our revenue potential.  It is possible that other legal restraints will be adopted limiting our discretion over programming decisions.Our voice service is subject to regulatory burdens which may increase, causing us to incur additional costs.We offer voice communications services over our broadband network using VoIP services. The FCC has ruled that competitive telephone companies that support VoIP services, such as those we offer our customers, are entitled to interconnect with incumbent providers of traditional telecommunications services, which ensures that our VoIP services can compete in the market.  The scope of these interconnection rights are being reviewed in a current FCC proceeding, which may affect our ability to compete in the provision of voice services or result in additional costs.  The FCC has also declared that certain VoIP services are not subject to traditional state public utility regulation. The full extent of the FCC preemption of state and local regulation of VoIP services is not yet clear, and at least one state (Minnesota) has asserted jurisdiction over the company’s VoIP services.  We have filed a legal challenge to that jurisdictional assertion, which is now pending before a federal district court in Minnesota. Telecommunications companies generally are subject to other significant regulation which could also be extended to VoIP providers. If additional telecommunications regulations are applied to our VoIP service, it could cause us to incur additional costs.  The FCC has already extended certain traditional telecommunications carrier requirements to many VoIP providers such as us, including E911, Universal Service fund collection, CALEA, privacy of Customer Proprietary Network Information, number porting, network outage reporting,  39rural call completion reporting, disability access and discontinuance of service requirements.  In addition, the FCC is subjecting our VoIP services to new back-up power obligations that were effective beginning February 2015.In 2011, the FCC released an order (subsequently upheld on appeal) that significantly changed the rules governing intercarrier compensation payments for the origination and termination of telephone traffic between carriers, including VoIP service providers like us. This change will result in a substantial decrease in intercarrier compensation payments over a multi-year period. Item 1B