ITEM 1A Risk Factors 

<A
NAME="ci77201_item_1a_risk_factors"> 
    





ITEM 1A  Risk Factors      

As
a large company operating in a complex industry, Cigna encounters a variety of risks and uncertainties including those identified in this Risk Factor discussion and elsewhere in this report. Cigna
has implemented and maintains enterprise-wide risk management processes, in addition to the risk management processes within its businesses. The factors discussed below represent
significant risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on Cigna's business, liquidity, results of operations or financial condition. These risks and uncertainties are not the
only ones Cigna faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect Cigna. 


Regulatory and Litigation Risks


 <A
NAME="ci77201_health_care_reform_legislation__hea08537"> 
  





Health Care Reform legislation, as well as potential additional changes in federal or state regulations, could have a material  adverse effect on Cigna's business, results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity.      

In 2010, Health Care Reform was signed into law, and it is resulting in significant changes to the current U.S. health care system.
Health Care Reform mandates broad changes in the delivery of health care benefits that may impact the Company's current business model, including its relationship with current and future customers,
producers and health care providers, products, services, processes and technology. Health Care Reform includes, among other requirements, provisions for guaranteed coverage and renewal requirements,
prohibitions on annual and lifetime limits on the dollar amount of benefits for essential health services, increased restrictions on rescinding coverage, minimum medical loss ratio and customer rebate
requirements, a requirement to cover preventive services on a first dollar basis, and greater controls on premium rate increases for individual and small employer health insurance. It also reduces the
Medicare Part D coverage gap and reduces payments to private plans offering Medicare Advantage, as well as provides for state insurance exchanges through which insurers and HMOs will, if
qualified, be able to offer insured plans to individuals and small employers. In addition, the legislation imposes an excise tax on high-cost employer-sponsored coverage and annual fees on
insurance companies and HMOs that will generally not be deductible for income tax purposes and therefore may adversely impact the Company's effective tax rate. It also limits the amount of
compensation for executives of insurers that is tax deductible. 

Certain
of the law's provisions became effective between 2010 and 2012 and other provisions will take effect from 2013 to 2018. Health Care Reform left many of the details of the new law to be set
forth through regulations. While federal agencies have published interim final regulations with respect to certain requirements, many issues remain uncertain, thus the full impact on the Company is
not yet known. This legislation could impact the Company significantly by:






 
•
  disrupting the employer-based market, which is currently the primary business model for the Company's Global Health Care segment;  







 
•
  causing employers to drop health care coverage for their employees; 






 
•
 driving potential cost shifting in the health care delivery system to health insurance companies and HMOs; 






 
•
  regulating business practices; 






 
•
  imposing new or increasing taxes and financial assessments; 






 
•
 limiting the ability to increase premiums to meet costs (including denial or delays in approval and implementation of those rates); and  






 
•
  significantly reducing the growth of Medicare program payments. 

Accordingly,
Health Care Reform, other regulatory reform initiatives or additional changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 

The
Medicare business acquired with HealthSpring presents additional risks for Cigna, as the Medicare program has been the subject of recent regulatory reform initiatives, including Health Care
Reform. Because Medicare program premiums account for substantially all of the acquired business's revenue, reductions or less than expected increases in funding for Medicare programs (including the
potential effect of sequestration) could significantly reduce the Company's profitability, and non-renewal or termination of Medicare contracts would substantially impair the acquired
business. 

In
June 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of most parts of Health Care Reform, but considerable uncertainty remains and it is difficult to predict the impact of Health Care
Reform on the business due to the law's complexity, continuing development of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance. Cigna is unable to predict how these events will develop and what
impact they will have on Health Care Reform, and in turn, on Cigna. 

For
additional information on Health Care Reform, see "Business – Regulation" in Section H beginning on page 14 of this Form 10-K and the
"Introduction" section of MD&A beginning on page 32 of this Form 10-K. See also the description of minimum medical loss ratio and customer rebate requirements in the
"Business – B. Global Health Care" section beginning on page 2 of this Form 10-K. 

CIGNA CORPORATION - 2012 Form 10-K    19 




 

Back to Contents

PART I ITEM 1A Risk Factors

<A
NAME="ci77201_cigna_s_business_is_subject_to__cig07867"> 
 







 Cigna's business is subject to substantial government regulation that, along with new regulation, could increase its costs of  doing business and have a material adverse effect on its profitability.
     

Cigna's business is regulated at the international, federal, state and local levels. The laws and rules governing Cigna's business
and related interpretations are increasing in number and complexity, are subject to frequent change and can be inconsistent or even conflict with each other. As a public company with global
operations, Cigna is subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate
governance, privacy, data protection, labor and employment, consumer protection, tax and anti-corruption. Cigna must identify, assess and respond to new trends in the legislative and
regulatory environments as well as effectively comply with the various existing regulations applicable to its business. Existing or future laws, rules, regulatory interpretations or judgments could
force Cigna to change how it does business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase health care, technology and administrative costs, including pension costs and capital requirements, require
enhancements to the Company's compliance infrastructure and internal controls environment. Existing or future laws and rules could also require Cigna to take other actions such as changing its
business practices for disability payments thereby increasing Cigna's liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. 


In
addition, Cigna must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of its products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to consummate some of its acquisitions and
divestitures. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce the Company's revenue or increase its costs. For further information on regulatory matters relating to
Cigna, see "Business – Regulation" in Section H of this Form 10-K. 

<A
NAME="ci77201_cigna_faces_risks_related_to_l__cig03085"> 
 






Cigna faces risks related to litigation, regulatory audits and investigations.      

Cigna is routinely involved in numerous claims, lawsuits, regulatory audits, investigations and other legal matters arising in the
ordinary course of business, including that of administering and insuring employee benefit programs. These could include benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, disputes regarding
reinsurance arrangements, employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, wage and hour claims, tax, privacy, intellectual property and real estate related disputes.
In addition, Cigna incurs and likely will continue to incur liability for claims related to its health care business, such as failure to pay for or provide health care, poor outcomes for care
delivered or arranged, provider disputes, including disputes over compensation, and claims related to self-funded business. Also, there are currently, and may be in the future, attempts to
bring class action lawsuits against the industry. 

Court
decisions and legislative activity may increase Cigna's exposure for any of these types of claims. In some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages may be sought. Cigna
currently has insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities. Other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may not
be sufficient to cover the entire damages awarded. In addition, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance, and insurance coverage for all or certain forms of
liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. It is possible that the resolution of one or more of the legal matters and claims described could result in losses material
to Cigna's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 

A
description of material pending legal actions and other legal matters in which Cigna is currently involved is included in Note 24 to Cigna's Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Form 10-K. The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain, and outcomes that are not justified by the evidence or existing law can occur. Cigna believes that
it has valid defenses to the legal matters pending against it and is defending itself vigorously. 

In
addition, there is heightened review by federal and state regulators of health care and group disability insurance industry business and reporting practices. Cigna is frequently the subject of
regulatory market conduct and other reviews, audits and investigations by state insurance and health and welfare departments, attorneys general, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS)
and, the Office of Inspector General (OIG). With respect to Cigna's Medicare Advantage business, CMS and OIG perform audits to determine a health plan's compliance with federal regulations and
contractual obligations, including compliance with proper coding practices (sometimes referred to as Risk Adjustment Data Validation Audits or RADV audits) and compliance with fraud and abuse
enforcement practices through Recovery Audit Contractor (RAC) audits in which third-party contractors conduct post-payment reviews on a contingency fee basis to detect and correct improper
payments. In 2012, Cigna significantly expanded its Medicare business with its acquisition of HealthSpring. This expansion of its Medicare business may increase the risks the Company faces from
lawsuits, regulatory audits, investigations and other regulatory matters. These regulatory reviews could result in changes to or clarifications of Cigna's business practices or retroactive adjustments
to certain premiums, and also could result in significant fines, penalties, civil liabilities, criminal liabilities or other sanctions, that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
business, results of operation, financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, the employee benefits industry remains under scrutiny by various state and federal government agencies and could be
subject to governmental efforts to bring criminal actions in circumstances that could previously have given rise only to civil or administrative proceedings. 

20    CIGNA CORPORATION - 2012 Form 10-K




 

Back to Contents

PART I ITEM 1A Risk Factors

Business Risks


 <A
NAME="ci77201_future_performance_of_cigna_s___fut05827"> 
  






 Future performance of Cigna's business will depend on the Company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational  initiatives effectively.      

The future performance of Cigna's business will depend in large part on Cigna's ability to effectively implement and execute its
strategic and operational initiatives that include: (1) driving growth in targeted geographies, product lines, buying segments and distribution channels; (2) improving its strategic and
financial flexibility; and (3) pursuing additional opportunities in high-growth markets with particular focus on individuals. 


Successful
execution of these strategic and operational initiatives depends on a number of factors including:






 
•
  differentiating Cigna's products and services from those of its competitors by leveraging its health advocacy capabilities and other strengths in
targeted markets, geographies and buyer segments; 






 
•
  developing and introducing new products or programs, particularly in response to government regulation and the increased focus on consumer directed
products; 






 
•
  identifying and introducing the proper mix or integration of products that will be accepted by the marketplace; 






 
•
  attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified employees; 







 
•
  attracting and engaging a sufficient number of qualified partners, including physicians partners in an environment with a growing shortage of primary
care physicians; 






 
•
  effectively managing balance sheet exposures, including the Company's pension funding obligation; 






 
•
  improving medical cost competitiveness in targeted markets; and 







 
•
  reducing Cigna HealthCare's medical operating expenses to achieve sustainable benefits. 

If
these initiatives fail or are not executed effectively, it could harm the Company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. For example, reducing operating expenses while
maintaining the necessary resources and the Company's talent pool is important to the Company and, if not managed effectively, could have long-term effects on the business such as failure
to maintain or improve the quality of its products and limiting its ability to retain or hire key personnel. In addition, to succeed, the Company must align its organization to its strategy. Cigna
must effectively integrate its operations, including its most recently acquired businesses, actively work to ensure consistency throughout the organization, and promote a global mind-set
and a focus on individual customers. If the Company fails to do so, it may be unable to grow as planned, or the result of expansion may be unsatisfactory. Also, the current competitive, economic and
regulatory environment will require Cigna's organization to adapt rapidly and nimbly to new opportunities and challenges. The Company will be unable to do so if it does not make important decisions
quickly, define its appetite for risk specifically, implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes smoothly and communicate roles and responsibilities clearly. 

<A
NAME="ci77201_as_a_global_company,_cigna_fac__as_08346"> 
 







 As a global company, Cigna faces political, legal, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks that present challenges  and could negatively affect its multinational operations or the Company's
 long-term growth.      

As a global company, Cigna's business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks, which can vary
substantially by market, include political, legal, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks, including government intervention and censorship that the Company does not face in its U.S.
operations. The global nature of Cigna's business and operations presents challenges including, but not limited, to those arising from:






 
•
  varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands; 






 
•
  discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets; 






 
•
  price controls or other pricing issues and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent it from transferring funds from these operations out
of the countries in which it operates or converting local currencies that our foreign operations hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies; 






 
•
  foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations that may have an impact on the future costs or on future sales and cash flows from the Company's
international operations, and any measures that it may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of its international operations may not be effective;  






 
•
  reliance on local sales forces for some of its operations in countries that may have labor problems and less flexible employee relationships that can
be difficult and expensive to terminate, or where changes in local regulation or law may disrupt the business operations; 






 
•
  risk associated with managing Cigna's partner relationships in accordance with business objectives in countries where our foreign businesses
voluntarily operate or are required to operate with local business partners; 







 
•
  challenges associated with managing more geographically diverse operations and projects; 






 
•
 the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations; 






 
•
  political instability or acts of war, terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics in locations where Cigna operates; and 







 
•
  general economic and political conditions. 

These
factors may increase in importance as Cigna continues to expand globally, and any one of these challenges could negatively affect the Company's operations or its long-term growth.
Currently, South Korea is the single largest geographic market in Cigna's Global 

CIGNA CORPORATION - 2012 Form 10-K    21 




 

Back to Contents

PART I ITEM 1A Risk Factors

Supplemental
Benefits segment. South Korea generated 54% of the segment's revenues and 90% of the segment's earnings in 2012. Due to the concentration of business in South Korea, the Global
Supplemental Benefits segment is exposed to potential losses resulting from economic and geopolitical developments in that country, as well as foreign currency movements affecting the South Korean
currency, that could have a significant impact on the segment's results and the Company's consolidated financial results. Further, expansion into new markets may require considerable management time
before any significant revenues and earnings are generated, that could divert management's attention from other strategic activities. 

International
operations also require the Company to devote significant management resources to implement its controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the U.S. anti-bribery and
anti-corruption as well as anti-money laundering provisions and similar laws in local jurisdictions and to overcome logistical and other challenges based on differing
languages, cultures and time zones. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against the Company, its officers or employees, prohibitions on the conduct of
its business, and reputational harm. Cigna must regularly reassess the size, capability and location of its global infrastructure and make appropriate changes, and must have effective change
management processes and internal controls in place to address changes in its business and operations. Cigna's success depends, in part, on its ability to anticipate these risks and manage these
difficulties, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on Cigna's business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and long-term growth. 

<A
NAME="ci77201_successful_management_of_cigna__suc00148"> 
 






Successful management of Cigna's outsourcing projects and key vendors including taking steps to ensure that third parties that  obtain access to sensitive personal information maintain its
confidentiality and security, is important to its business.    


To improve operating costs, productivity and efficiencies, Cigna outsources selected functions to third parties. Cigna takes steps to
monitor and regulate the performance of independent third parties who provide services or to whom the Company delegates selected functions. These third parties include information technology system
providers, independent practice associations, providers of medical management services, call center and claim service providers and various types of other service providers. 

Arrangements
with key vendors may make Cigna's operations vulnerable if third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to the Company, including their obligations to maintain and protect the security
and confidentiality of the Company's information and data, as a result of their performance, changes in their own operations, financial condition, or other matters outside of Cigna's control. The
Company has limited control over the actions of third-party providers even though contracts provide certain protections. Noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations or any security
breach involving one of its third-party service providers could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and reputation. In addition, to
the extent Cigna outsources selected services or selected functions to third parties in foreign jurisdictions, the Company could be exposed to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the
United States, including international economic and political conditions, and the additional costs associated with complying with foreign laws and fluctuations in currency values. 


The
expanding role of third party service vendors may also require changes to Cigna's existing operations and the adoption of new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers,
as well as redistributing responsibilities as needed, in order to realize the potential productivity and operational efficiencies. Effective management, development and implementation of its
outsourcing strategies are important to Cigna's business and strategy. If there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes or its third party providers do not perform as anticipated,
Cigna may not fully realize on a timely basis the anticipated economic and other benefits of the outsourcing projects or other relationships it enters into with key vendors, which could result in
substantial costs or regulatory compliance issues, divert management's attention from other strategic activities, negatively affect employee morale or create other operational or financial problems
for the Company. Terminating or transitioning arrangements with key vendors could result in additional costs and risks of operational delays, potential errors and possible control issues as a result
of the termination or during the transition phase. 

<A
NAME="ci77201_acquisitions,_including_health__acq08471"> 
 






Acquisitions, including HealthSpring, involve risks and the Company may not realize the expected benefits because of  integration difficulties, underperformance relative to Cigna's expectations and
other challenges.      

As part of the Company's growth strategy, Cigna regularly considers strategic transactions, including acquisitions, with the
expectation that these transactions will result in various benefits. Cigna's ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether
Cigna integrates its acquired companies in an efficient and effective manner, the performance of the acquired businesses and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve these
anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in expected revenues, goodwill impairment charges, and diversion of management's time and energy. 

In
January 2012, Cigna acquired HealthSpring, an operator of Medicare Advantage coordinated care plans in 13 states and the District of Columbia. The success of the HealthSpring acquisition depends on
Cigna's ability to integrate HealthSpring with its existing businesses and the performance of the acquired business. The potential difficulties of integrating the operations of HealthSpring and
achieving the performance expected of the acquired businesses include: implementing the Company's business plan for the combined business; executing Cigna's growth plans by leveraging its capabilities
and those of the businesses acquired in serving the Seniors segment; unanticipated issues in integrating logistics, information, communications and other systems; changes in applicable laws and
regulations or conditions imposed by regulators; retaining key employees; operating risks inherent in HealthSpring's business and 

22    CIGNA CORPORATION - 2012 Form 10-K




 

Back to Contents

PART I ITEM 1A Risk Factors

Cigna's
business; retaining and growing membership; renewing or successfully rebidding for contracts with CMS, including maintaining or improving upon the CMS performance plan star ratings; leveraging
the information technology platform of the acquired businesses; and unanticipated issues, costs, obligations and liabilities. If Cigna is unable to integrate the HealthSpring business successfully, or
if the acquired business' performance evaluations under contracts with CMS are adverse, these factors could have a material adverse effect on Cigna's business, results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity and could affect expectations for future revenue and earnings growth. 

Effective
internal controls are necessary for the Company to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to mitigate the risk of fraud. The integration of acquired businesses is likely to
result in Cigna's systems and controls becoming increasingly complex and more difficult to manage. Any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into the Company's control system could
cause it to fail to meet its financial reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in the Company's reported financial information, which could
have a negative effect on the trading price of Cigna's stock and its access to capital. 

<A
NAME="ci77201_cigna_s_business_depends_on_it__cig08955"> 
 






Cigna's business depends on its ability to properly maintain the integrity of its data and the uninterrupted operation of its  systems and business functions, including information technology and
other business systems.      


Cigna's business depends on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data it uses to run its business.
Cigna's business strategy requires providing customers and health care professionals with Internet-enabled products and information to meet their needs. Cigna's ability to adequately price its
products and services, establish reserves, provide effective and efficient service to its customers, and to timely and accurately report its financial results also depends significantly on the
integrity of the data in its information systems. If the information Cigna relies upon to run its businesses were found to be inaccurate or unreliable due to fraud or other error, or if Cigna (or the
third-party service parties it utilizes) were to fail to maintain information systems and data integrity effectively, the Company could experience difficulties with: operational disruptions (that may
impact customers and health care professionals); determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing; retaining and attracting customers; regulatory compliance and other
challenges. 

In
addition, Cigna's business is highly dependent upon its ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, its necessary business functions, such as: claims processing and payment;
internet support and customer call centers; and the processing of new and renewal business. Failure to comply with relevant regulations, a power outage, pandemic, cyber-attack or other failure of one
or more of information technology, telecommunications or other systems could cause slower system response times resulting in claims not being processed as quickly as clients desire, decreased levels
of client service and client satisfaction, and harm to Cigna's reputation. Because Cigna's information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, Cigna
could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption,
systems failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of Cigna's ability to pay claims in a timely manner, provide customer service, write and process new and renewal business, or perform
other necessary corporate functions, and could have a material adverse effect on Cigna's business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 


Like
other companies in our industry, we have been and may in the future be the subject of cybersecurity breaches. Computer systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer
viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar
disruptive problems. If a cybersecurity breach of Cigna's computer systems or the computer systems of a third-party service provider occurs, it could also interrupt Cigna's operations and damage
Cigna's reputation. Cigna could also be subject to liability if sensitive customer information is misappropriated. Any publicized compromise of security could result in a loss of existing or new
customers, increased operating expenses, financial losses, and additional litigation or other claims that could have a material adverse effect on Cigna's business, results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity. 

<A
NAME="ci77201_effective_investment_in_and_ex__eff01650"> 
 






Effective investment in and execution of improvements in the Company's information technology infrastructure and functionality  are important to its strategy and failure to do so may impede its
ability to deliver the services required in the evolving marketplace at a competitive cost.    


Cigna's information technology strategy and execution are critical to the continued success of the Company. Increasing regulatory and
legislative mandated changes will place additional demands on Cigna's information technology infrastructure, which could have a direct impact on available resources for projects more directly tied to
strategic initiatives. The Company must continue to invest in long-term solutions that will enable it to anticipate customer needs and expectations, enhance the customer experience and act
as a differentiator in the market. Cigna's success is dependent, in large part, on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and continuing to deliver and enhance technology systems
that support the Company's business processes in a cost-efficient and resource-efficient manner. Cigna also must develop new systems to meet current market standards and keep pace with
continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and customer needs. Failure to do so may impede the Company's ability to deliver services at a
competitive cost. Furthermore, system development projects are long-term in nature, may be more costly than expected to complete and may not deliver the expected benefits upon completion. 

CIGNA CORPORATION - 2012 Form 10-K    23 






<A
NAME="page_ck77201_1_24"> 









































Back to Contents 

PART I  ITEM 1A Risk Factors 

<A
NAME="ck77201_effective_prevention,_detectio__eff07268"> 
 






 Effective prevention, detection and control systems are critical to maintain regulatory compliance and prevent fraud and  failure of these systems could adversely affect the Company.    
 

Failure of Cigna's prevention, detection or control systems related to regulatory compliance or the failure of employees to comply
with Cigna's internal policies, including data systems security or unethical conduct by managers and employees, could adversely affect Cigna's reputation and also expose it to litigation and other
proceedings, fines and penalties. Federal and state governments have made investigating and prosecuting health care and other insurance fraud and abuse a priority. Fraud and abuse prohibitions
encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing for unnecessary medical services, improper marketing, and violations of patient privacy rights. The
regulations and contractual requirements applicable to the Company are complex and subject to change. In addition, ongoing vigorous law enforcement, a highly technical regulatory scheme and the
Dodd-Frank legislation and related regulations being adopted to enhance regulators' enforcement powers and whistleblower incentives and protections, mean that Cigna's compliance efforts in
this area will continue to require significant resources. 

In
addition, provider or customer fraud that is not prevented or detected could impact Cigna's medical costs or those of its self-insured customers. Further, during an economic downturn,
Cigna's segments, including Global Health Care, Group Disability and Life and Global Supplemental Benefits, may see increased fraudulent claims volume that may lead to additional costs due to an
increase in disputed claims and litigation. 

<A
NAME="ck77201_cigna_s_pharmacy_benefit_manag__cig06259"> 
 






Cigna's pharmacy benefit management business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, in addition to those Cigna  faces with its health care business.      


Cigna's pharmacy benefit management business is subject to federal and state regulation, including federal and state
anti-remuneration laws, ERISA, HIPAA and laws related to the operation of Internet and mail-service pharmacies. Noncompliance with such regulations could have a material
adverse effect on Cigna's business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and reputation. 

The
Company's pharmacy benefit management business would also be adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and could suffer claims and
reputational harm in connection with purported errors by Cigna's mail order or retail pharmacy businesses. Disruptions at any of the Company's pharmacy business facilities due to failure of technology
or any other failure or disruption to these systems or to the infrastructure due to fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism or some other catastrophic event could reduce Cigna's
ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to customers, that could have a material adverse effect on Cigna's business, results of operations, financial condition
and liquidity. 

<A
NAME="ck77201_in_operating_its_onsite_clinic__in_08864"> 
 






In operating its onsite clinics and medical facilities, the Company may be subject to additional liability, that could result  in significant time and expense and divert management's attention from
other strategic activities.      


The Company employs physicians, nurse practitioners, nurses and other health care professionals at onsite low acuity and primary care
clinics it operates for the Company's customers (as well as certain clinics for Company employees). Through the HealthSpring business acquired in 2012, Cigna also operates LivingWell health centers
and health care practices for its customers. In addition, the Company owns and operates medical facilities in the Phoenix, Arizona metropolitan area, including multispecialty health care centers,
outpatient surgery and urgent care centers, low acuity clinics, laboratory, pharmacy and other operations that employ primary care as well as specialty care physicians and other types of health care
professionals. As a direct employer of health care professionals and as an operator of primary and low-acuity care clinics and other types of medical facilities, the Company is subject to
liability for negligent acts, omissions, or injuries occurring at one of its clinics or caused by one of its employees. Even if any claims brought against the Company were unsuccessful or without
merit, it would have to defend against such claims. The defense of any actions may be time-consuming and costly, and may distract management. As a result, Cigna may incur significant
expenses that could have a material adverse effect on Cigna's business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. 

<A
NAME="ck77201_cigna_faces_competitive_pressu__cig09127"> 
 







 Cigna faces competitive pressure, particularly price competition, that could result in premiums which are insufficient to  cover the cost of the health care services delivered to its members and
 inadequate medical claims reserves.      

While health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service quality of clinical resources, claims administration
services and medical management programs, and quality, sufficiency and cost effectiveness of health care professional network relationships, Cigna expects that price will continue to be a significant
basis of competition. Cigna's customer contracts are subject to negotiation as customers seek to contain their costs, and customers may elect to reduce benefits in order to constrain increases in
their benefit costs. Such an election may result in lower premiums for the Company's products, and even though it may also reduce Cigna's costs, it could still adversely affect Cigna's financial
results. Alternatively, the Company's customers may purchase different types of products that are less profitable, or move to a competitor to obtain more favorable premiums. 

Factors
such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform and marketing practices create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite increasing medical costs. For
example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act gives banks and other financial institutions the ability to be affiliated with insurance companies that may lead to new competitors with significant financial
resources in the insurance and health benefits fields. The Company's product margins and 

24    CIGNA CORPORATION - 2012 Form 10-K




 

Back to Contents

PART I ITEM 1A Risk Factors

growth
depend, in part, on its ability to compete effectively in its markets, set rates appropriately in highly competitive markets to keep or increase its market share, increase membership as
planned, and avoid losing accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience. 

Cigna's
profitability depends, in part, on its ability to accurately predict and control future health care costs through underwriting criteria, provider contracting, utilization management and
product design. Premiums in the health care business are generally fixed for one-year periods. Accordingly, future cost increases in excess of medical cost projections reflected in pricing
cannot generally be recovered in the current contract year through higher premiums. Although Cigna bases the premiums it charges on its estimate of future health care costs over the fixed premium
period, actual costs may exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums. Factors that may cause actual costs to exceed premiums include: medical cost inflation; higher than expected utilization
of medical services; the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology; and membership mix. 

Cigna
records medical claims reserves for estimated future payments. The Company continually reviews estimates of future payments relating to medical claims costs for services incurred in the current
and prior periods and makes necessary adjustments to its reserves. However, actual health care costs may exceed what was estimated. 

<A
NAME="ck77201_significant_stock_market_decli__sig06272"> 
 






 Significant stock market declines could result in additional pension obligations, increased funding for those obligations, and  increased pension plan expenses.      

Cigna currently has unfunded obligations in its frozen pension plans. A significant decline in the value of the plan's equity and
fixed income investments or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially increase Cigna's expenses and change the timing and amount of required plan funding that could reduce
the cash available to Cigna, including its subsidiaries. See Note 10 to Cigna's Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Company's obligations under the pension plan. 

<A
NAME="ck77201_significant_changes_in_market___sig07384"> 
 






Significant changes in market interest rates affect the value of Cigna's financial instruments that promise a fixed return or  benefit and the value of particular assets and liabilities.    



As an insurer, Cigna has substantial investment assets that support insurance and contractholder deposit liabilities. Generally low
levels of interest rates on investments, such as those experienced in United States and foreign financial markets
during recent years, have negatively impacted the level of investment income earned by the Company in recent periods, and such lower levels of investment income would continue if these lower interest
rates were to continue. 

Substantially
all of the Company's investment assets are in fixed interest-yielding debt securities of varying maturities, fixed redeemable preferred securities and commercial mortgage loans. The
value of these investment assets can fluctuate significantly with changes in market conditions. A rise in interest rates could reduce the value of the Company's investment portfolio and increase
interest expense if Cigna were to access its available lines of credit. 

The
Company is also exposed to interest rate and equity risk associated with the Company's pension and other post-retirement obligations. Sustained declines in interest rates could have an
adverse impact on the funded status of the Company's pension plans and the Company's reinvestment yield on new investments. 

<A
NAME="ck77201_a_downgrade_in_the_financial_s__a_d01119"> 
 






A downgrade in the financial strength ratings of Cigna's insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect new sales and retention  of current business, and a downgrade in Cigna's debt ratings would
increase the cost of borrowed funds and affect the Company's ability to access capital.    


Financial strength, claims paying ability and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an important factor in establishing
the competitive position of insurance companies and health benefits companies. Ratings information by nationally recognized ratings agencies is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the
industry. Cigna believes the claims paying ability and financial strength ratings of its principal insurance subsidiaries are an important factor in marketing its products to certain of Cigna's
customers. In addition, Cigna Corporation's debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings, and accordingly, its cost of capital. Each of the rating agencies reviews Cigna's
ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. In addition, a downgrade of these ratings could make it more difficult to raise capital and to
support business growth at Cigna's insurance subsidiaries. 

Insurance
ratings represent the opinions of the rating agencies on the financial strength of a company and its capacity to meet the obligations of insurance policies. The principal agencies that rate
Cigna's insurance subsidiaries characterize their insurance rating scales as follows:






 
•
  A.M. Best Company, Inc. ("A.M. Best"), A++ to S ("Superior" to "Suspended"); 






 
•
  Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's"), Aaa to C ("Exceptional" to "Lowest"); 







 
•
  Standard & Poor's Corp. ("S&P"), AAA to R ("Extremely Strong" to "Regulatory Action"); and 






 
•
 Fitch, Inc. ("Fitch"), AAA to D ("Exceptionally Strong" to "Order of Liquidation"). 

CIGNA CORPORATION - 2012 Form 10-K    25 




 

Back to Contents


PART I ITEM 1A Risk Factors

As
of February 28, 2013, the insurance financial strength ratings were as follows for the Cigna subsidiaries, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company ("CGLIC"), Life Insurance Company of
North America ("LINA") and Cigna Health & Life Insurance Company ("CHLIC"): 
 

















 
 
CGLIC
Insurance Ratings (1)
 
LINA
Insurance Ratings (1)
 
CHLIC
Insurance Ratings (1)


 


A.M. Best
 
A
("Excellent," 3rd of 16)
 
A
("Excellent," 3rd of 16)
 
A
("Excellent," 3rd of 16)


Moody's
 
A2
("Good," 6th of 21)
 
A2
("Good," 6th of 21)
 
A2
("Good," 6th of 21)


S&P
 
A
("Strong," 6th of 21)
 

(Not Rated)
 
A
("Strong," 6th of 21)


Fitch
 
A
("Strong," 6th of 19)
 
A
("Strong," 6th of 19)
 

(Not Rated)


 



 

 
(1)
Includes the rating assigned, the agency's characterization of the rating and the position
of the rating in the agency's rating scale (e.g., CGLIC's rating by A.M. Best is the 3rd highest rating awarded in its scale of 16).  
 
   
 
    





Global market, economic and geopolitical conditions may cause fluctuations in equity market prices, interest rates and credit  spreads, which could impact the Company's ability to raise or deploy
capital as well as affect the Company's overall liquidity.      


If the equity markets and credit market experience extreme volatility and disruption, there could be downward pressure on stock
prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. Extreme disruption in the credit markets could adversely impact the Company's
availability and cost of credit in the future. In addition, unpredictable or unstable market conditions or continued pressure in the global or U.S. economy, such as the sovereign debt crisis in the
European Union and uncertainty regarding the U.S. fiscal position, including with respect to the federal debt ceiling, could result in reduced opportunities to find suitable opportunities to raise
capital. 

In
November 2011, Cigna issued $2.1 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes to finance part of the cost for the HealthSpring acquisition. As of December 31, 2012, the
Company's outstanding long-term debt totaled $5.0 billion. Cigna's increased debt obligations could make the Company more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry
conditions and require the Company to dedicate increased cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on its debt, thereby reducing the funds it has available for other purposes,
such as investments in ongoing businesses, acquisitions, dividends and stock repurchases. In these circumstances, the Company's ability to execute on its strategy may be limited, its flexibility in
planning for or reacting to changes in its business and market conditions may be reduced, or its access to capital markets may be limited such that additional capital may not be available or may only
be available on unfavorable terms. 

<A
NAME="ck77201_unfavorable_developments_in_ec__unf05182"> 
 






 Unfavorable developments in economic conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial  condition.      

The economic conditions in the U.S. and globally continue to be challenging. Continued concerns about slow economic growth, high
unemployment rates, the sovereign debt crisis in the European Union and uncertainty regarding the U.S. fiscal position, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit and other capital,
consumer spending and other factors continue to negatively impact expectations for the U.S. and global economy. Unfavorable economic conditions could cause lower enrollment in our plans and negatively
impact the demand for certain of our products and services as employers try to reduce their operating costs. As a result, they may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase the Company's products, may
make changes in the mix of products purchased that are unfavorable to the Company, or may be forced to reduce their workforces. Specifically, higher unemployment rates as a result of an economic
downturn could lead to lower enrollment in the Company's employer group plans, lower enrollment in our non-employer individual plans and a higher number of employees opting out of Cigna's
employer group plans. The adverse economic conditions could also cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary,
employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. All of these developments could lead to a decrease in Cigna's membership levels and premium and fee revenues. Additionally, Cigna's
previous disability claim experience and industry data indicate that submitted disability claims rise under adverse economic conditions, although the impact of the current adverse economic conditions
is not clear. Further, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts
receivable that are owed to the Company. Further, our customers or potential customers may force us to compete more vigorously on factors such as price and service to retain or obtain their business.
All of these could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a
prolonged unfavorable economic environment could adversely impact
the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could increase our medical costs as hospitals and other care providers attempt to maintain revenue levels in their efforts to adjust
to their own economic challenges. The same conditions that may affect Cigna's customers and network also could adversely affect its vendors, causing them to significantly and quickly increase their
prices or reduce their output. Cigna's business depends on its ability to perform its necessary business functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion. 


26    CIGNA CORPORATION - 2012 Form 10-K




 

Back to Contents

PART I ITEM 1A Risk Factors

During
a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in federal and state
government coverage programs, such as Medicare and social security. In addition, the state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the government to impose new or a higher level of taxes or
assessments on us, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and health maintenance organizations and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical
claims. Although we could attempt to mitigate or cover our exposure from such increased costs through, among other things, increases in premiums, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
mitigate or cover all of such costs which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 


<A
NAME="ck77201_cigna_is_subject_to_th__ck702194"> 
 






 Cigna is subject to the credit risk of its reinsurers.      

Cigna enters into reinsurance arrangements with other insurance companies, primarily to limit losses from large exposures or to
permit recovery of a portion of direct losses. The Company may also enter into reinsurance arrangements in connection with acquisition or divestiture transactions where the underwriting company is not
being acquired or sold. The run-off businesses that Cigna has effectively exited through reinsurance include, among others: the retirement benefit business reinsured by Prudential
Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company; the individual life insurance and annuity business reinsured by Lincoln National Life Insurance Company and Lincoln Life and Annuity of New York; and the
VADBe and GMIB businesses reinsured by Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska on February 4, 2013. 

Under
all reinsurance arrangements, reinsurers assume insured losses, subject to certain limitations or exceptions that may include a loss limit. These arrangements also subject Cigna to various
obligations, representations and warranties with the reinsurers. Reinsurance does not relieve the Company of liability as the originating insurer. Cigna remains liable to the underlying policyholders
if a reinsurer defaults on obligations under the reinsurance arrangement. Although the Company regularly evaluates the financial condition of reinsurers to minimize exposure to significant losses from
reinsurer insolvencies, reinsurers may become financially unsound. If a reinsurer fails to meet its obligations under the reinsurance contract or if the liabilities exceed any applicable loss limit,
the Company will be forced to cover the claims on the reinsured policies. 

The
collectability of amounts due from reinsurers is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including whether the insured losses meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance
contract, whether reinsurers or their affiliates have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of the reinsurance contract, and the magnitude and type of collateral
supporting the Company's reinsurance recoverable, such as by sufficient qualifying assets in trusts or letters of credit issued. Although a portion of the Company's reinsurance exposures are secured,
the inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 

CIGNA CORPORATION - 2012 Form 10-K    27 






<A
NAME="page_cm77201_1_28"> 









































Back to Contents 

PART I  ITEM 1B