Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS
    
    CIGNA’s
businesses face risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and
elsewhere in this report. These factors represent risks and uncertainties that
could have a material adverse effect on CIGNA’s business, results of operations
and financial condition.  These risks and uncertainties are not the
only ones CIGNA faces. Others risks and uncertainties that CIGNA does not
know about now, or that the Company does not now think are significant, may
impair its business or the trading price of its securities.  The
following are significant risks identified by CIGNA.
    
    If CIGNA does not
execute on its strategic initiatives, there could be a material adverse effect
on CIGNA’s results of operations and in certain situations, CIGNA's financial
condition.
    
    The
future performance of CIGNA’s business will depend in large part on CIGNA’s
ability to execute effectively and implement its strategic initiatives. 
These initiatives include: executing CIGNA's consumer engagement strategy,
including designing products to meet emerging market trends and ensuring that an
appropriate infrastructure is in place to meet the needs of customers and
members; continuing to reduce medical costs; market expansion, in particular in
the individual and small business markets, as well as growth in medical and
specialty membership; and further improving the efficiency of operations,
including lowering operating costs and enabling higher value
services.
    
    Successful
execution of these initiatives depends on a number of factors
including:
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      ability to gain and retain customers and members by providing appropriate
      levels of support and service for CIGNA’s products, as well as avoiding
      service and health advocacy related
errors;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified
      employees;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      negotiation of favorable provider
contracts;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              CIGNA's
      ability to develop and introduce new products or programs, because of the
      inherent risks and uncertainties associated with product development,
      particularly in response to government regulation or the increased focus
      on consumer directed products;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      identification and introduction of the proper mix or integration of
      products that will be accepted by the marketplace;
  and
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
              ·
            
            
              the
      ability of CIGNA’s products and services to differentiate CIGNA from its
      competitors and for CIGNA to demonstrate that these products and services
      (such as disease management and health advocacy programs, provider
      credentialing and other quality care initiatives) result in improved
      health outcomes and reduced costs.
            
          
      
    
    
    If
CIGNA does not adequately invest in and effectively execute improvements in its
information technology infrastructure and improve its functionality, it will not
be able to deliver the service required in the evolving
marketplace.
    
    CIGNA's
success in executing its consumer engagement strategy depends on the Company’s
continued improvements to its information technology infrastructure and customer
service offerings. The marketplace is evolving and the level of service that is
acceptable to consumers today will not necessarily be acceptable tomorrow. The
Company must continue to invest in long term solutions that will enable it to
meet customer expectations. CIGNA's success is dependent, in large part, on
maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and continuing to
deliver and enhance technology systems that support the Company’s business
processes in a cost-efficient and resource-efficient manner.  CIGNA
also must develop new systems to meet the current market standard and keep pace
with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry
and regulatory standards and customer needs.  System development
projects are long term in nature, may be more costly than expected to complete,
and may not deliver the expected benefits upon completion.  If
the Company does not effectively manage and upgrade its technology portfolio,
CIGNA's operating results may be adversely affected.
     
    If
CIGNA fails to properly maintain the integrity or security of its data or to
strategically implement new information systems, there could be a material
adverse effect on CIGNA’s business.
    
    CIGNA’s
business depends on effective information systems and the integrity and
timeliness of the data it uses to run its business.  CIGNA’s business
strategy requires providing members and providers with Internet-enabled products
and information to meet their needs. CIGNA’s 
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        28
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
     
    ability
to adequately price its products and services, establish reserves, provide
effective and efficient service to its customers, and to timely and accurately
report its financial results also depends significantly on the integrity of the
data in its information systems.  If the information CIGNA relies upon
to run its businesses were found to be inaccurate or unreliable due to fraud or
other error, or if CIGNA were to fail to maintain effectively its information
systems and data integrity, the Company could have problems with, among other
things:  operational disruptions, which may impact customers,
physicians and other health care providers; determining medical cost estimates
and establishing appropriate pricing; retaining and attracting customers; and
regulatory compliance.
    
    If CIGNA
were unable to maintain the security of any sensitive data residing on the
Company’s systems whether due to our own actions or those of any vendors, our
reputation would be adversely affected and we could be exposed to litigation or
other actions, fines or penalties, any of which could adversely affect our
business or financial condition.
    
    If
premiums are insufficient to cover the cost of health care services delivered to
members, or if CIGNA’s estimates of medical claim reserves for its guaranteed
cost and experience-rated businesses based upon estimates of future medical
claims are inadequate, profitability could decline.
    
    CIGNA’s
profitability depends, in part, on its ability to accurately predict and control
future health care costs through underwriting criteria, provider contracting,
utilization management and product design. Premiums in the health care business
are generally fixed for one-year periods. Accordingly, future cost increases in
excess of medical cost projections reflected in pricing cannot generally be
recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. Although CIGNA bases the
premiums it charges on its estimate of future health care costs over the fixed
premium period, actual costs may exceed what was estimated and reflected in
premiums. Factors that may cause actual costs to exceed premiums include:
medical cost inflation; higher than expected utilization of medical services;
the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology; and membership
mix.
    
    CIGNA
records medical claims reserves for estimated future payments. The Company
continually reviews estimates of future payments relating to medical claims
costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and makes necessary
adjustments to its reserves. However, actual health care costs may exceed what
was estimated.
    
    If CIGNA fails to
manage successfully its outsourcing projects and key vendors, CIGNA’s financial
results could be harmed.
    
    CIGNA
takes steps to monitor and regulate the performance of independent third parties
who provide services or to whom the Company delegates selected functions. These
third parties include information technology system providers, independent
practice associations and specialty service providers.
    
    In
addition to the software applications and human resource operations support IBM
had previously provided pursuant to several smaller contracts, in 2006, CIGNA
entered into an agreement with IBM to operate significant portions of its
information technology infrastructure, including the provision of services
relating to its call center application, enterprise content management,
risk-based capital analytical infrastructure and voice and data communications
network.  The 2006 contract with IBM includes several service level
agreements, or SLAs, related to issues such as performance and job disruption
with significant financial penalties if these SLAs are not
met.  However, the Company may not be adequately indemnified against
all possible losses through the terms and conditions of the agreement. In
addition, some of CIGNA’s termination rights are contingent upon payment of a
fee, which may be significant.  If CIGNA's relationship with IBM is
terminated,
the Company may experience disruption of service to customers, which could
affect CIGNA's business, results of operations, and financial condition.

    
       
      Arrangements
with key vendors may make CIGNA’s operations vulnerable if third parties fail to
satisfy their obligations to the Company, as a result of their performance,
changes in their own operations, financial condition, or other matters
outside of CIGNA’s control.  Certain legislative authorities
have in recent periods discussed or proposed legislation that would restrict
outsourcing and, if enacted, could materially increase CIGNA’s
costs.  Further, CIGNA may not fully realize on a timely basis the
anticipated economic and other benefits of the outsourcing projects or other
relationships it enters into with key vendors which could result in substantial
costs or other operational or financial problems that could adversely impact the
Company’s financial results.
    
     
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        29
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
     
    A
downgrade in the financial strength ratings of CIGNA’s insurance subsidiaries
could adversely affect new sales and retention of current business, and a
downgrade in CIGNA's debt ratings would increase the cost of borrowed
funds.
     
    Financial
strength, claims paying ability and debt ratings by recognized rating
organizations are an important factor in establishing the competitive position
of insurance companies and health benefits companies.  Ratings
information by nationally recognized ratings agencies is broadly disseminated
and generally used throughout the industry. CIGNA believes the claims paying
ability and financial strength ratings of its principal insurance subsidiaries
are an important factor in marketing its products to certain of CIGNA’s
customers.  In addition, CIGNA Corporation’s debt ratings impact both
the cost and availability of future borrowings, and accordingly, its cost of
capital. Each of the rating agencies reviews CIGNA’s ratings periodically and
there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future.
In addition, a downgrade of these ratings could make it more difficult to raise
capital and to support business growth at CIGNA’s insurance
subsidiaries.
    
    As of
February 27, 2008, the insurance financial strength ratings for CG Life, the
Company’s principal insurance subsidiary, were as follows:
    
    
      
          
             
      
            
              CG
      Life
            
          
          
             
      
            
              Insurance
      Ratings(1)
            
          
          
             
      
             
      
          
          
            
              A.M.
      Best
            
            
              A
            
          
          
             
      
            
              (“Excellent,”
            
          
          
             
      
            
              3rd
      of 16)
            
          
          
            
              Moody’s
            
            
              A2
            
          
          
             
      
            
              (“Good,”
            
          
          
             
      
            
              6th
      of 21)
            
          
          
            
              S&P
            
            
              A
            
          
          
             
      
            
              (“Strong,”
            
          
          
             
      
            
              6th
      of 21)
            
          
          
            
              Fitch
            
            
              A+
            
          
          
             
      
            
              (“Strong,”
            
          
          
             
      
            
              5th
      of 24)
            
          
      
    
    ___________
    (1)
Includes the rating assigned, the agency’s characterization of the rating and
the position of the rating in the agency’s rating scale (e.g., CG Life’s rating
by A.M. Best is the 3rd highest awarded in its scale of 16).
    
    A
description of CIGNA Corporation ratings, other subsidiary ratings, as well as
more information on these ratings, is included in “Ratings” in Section J
beginning on page 25.
     
    Unfavorable
claims experience related to workers’ compensation and personal accident
insurance exposures in CIGNA’s Run-off Reinsurance business could result in
losses.
    
    Unfavorable
claims experience related to workers’ compensation and personal accident
insurance exposures in CIGNA’s run-off reinsurance business is possible and
could result in future losses. Further, CIGNA could have losses attributable to
its inability to recover amounts from retrocessionaires or ceding companies
either due to disputes with the retrocessionaires or ceding companies or their
financial condition.  If CIGNA’s reserves for amounts recoverable from
retrocessionaires or ceding companies, as well as reserves associated with
underlying reinsurance exposures are insufficient, it could result in
losses.
    If
CIGNA’s program for its guaranteed minimum death benefits contracts fails to
reduce the risk of stock market declines, it could have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s financial condition.
    
    As part
of its run-off reinsurance business, CIGNA reinsured a guaranteed minimum death
benefit under certain variable annuities issued by other insurance
companies.  CIGNA adopted a program to reduce equity market risks
related to these contracts by selling domestic and foreign-denominated
exchange-traded futures contracts.  The purpose of this program is to
reduce the adverse effects of potential future domestic and international stock
market declines on CIGNA’s liabilities for these contracts.  Under the
program, increases in liabilities under the annuity contracts from a declining
equity market are offset by gains on the futures contracts.  However,
if CIGNA were to have difficulty in entering into appropriate futures contracts,
or stock market declines expose CIGNA to higher rates of partial surrender
(which are not covered by the program), there could be a material adverse effect
on the Company’s financial condition.  See “Run-off Reinsurance” in
Section H on page 21 for more information on the program.
    
    If
actual experience differs significantly from CIGNA’s assumptions used in
estimating CIGNA’s liabilities for reinsurance contracts covering guaranteed
minimum death benefits or minimum income benefits, it could have a material
adverse effect on CIGNA’s consolidated results of operations, and in certain
situations, could have a material adverse effect on CIGNA's financial
condition.
     
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        30
        
          
        
      
      
        
        
      
    
     
    CIGNA
estimates reserves for guaranteed minimum death benefit and minimum income
benefit exposures are based on assumptions regarding lapse, partial surrender,
mortality, interest rates, volatility, reinsurance recoverables, and, for
minimum income benefit exposures, annuity income election
rates.  These estimates are currently based on CIGNA’s experience and
future expectations.  CIGNA monitors actual experience to update these
reserve estimates as necessary.  CIGNA regularly evaluates the
assumptions used in establishing reserves and changes its estimates if actual
experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be
revised.  Further, CIGNA could have losses attributable to its
inability to recover amounts from retrocessionaires.
    
    Significant
stock market declines could result in increased pension plan expenses and the
recognition of additional pension obligations.
    
    CIGNA has
a pension plan that covers a large number of current employees and retirees.
Unfavorable investment performance due to significant stock market declines or
changes in estimates of benefit costs, if significant, could adversely affect
CIGNA’s results of operations or financial condition by significantly increasing
its pension plan expenses and obligations.
    
    Significant
changes in market interest rates affect the value of CIGNA's financial
instruments that promise a fixed return and, as such, could have an adverse
effect on CIGNA's results of operation, financial condition and cash
flows.
    
    As an
insurer, CIGNA has substantial investment assets that support its policy
liabilities. Generally low levels of interest rates on investments, such as
those experienced in United States financial markets during recent years, have
negatively impacted the level of investment income earned by the Company in
recent periods, and such lower levels of investment income would continue if
these lower interest rates were to continue.  Substantially all of the
Company’s investment assets are in fixed
interest-yielding debt securities of varying maturities, fixed redeemable
preferred securities and commercial mortgage loans.  The value of
these investment assets can fluctuate significantly with changes in market
conditions.  A rise in interest rates could reduce the value of the
Company’s investment portfolio and increase interest expense if CIGNA were to
access its available lines of credit. The Company is also exposed to interest
rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of
return assumptions associated with the Company’s pension and other
post-retirement obligations and certain guaranteed benefit
products.  Sustained declines in interest rates or equity returns
could have an adverse impact on the funded status of the Company’s pension
plans, the ultimate benefit payout on these guaranteed products, and the
Company’s re-investment yield on new investments.
     
    New
accounting pronouncements or guidance may require CIGNA to change the way in
which it accounts for operations and may affect the Company’s financial
results.
    
    The
Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission,
and other regulatory bodies may issue new accounting standards or
pronouncements, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards or
pronouncements, from time to time, which could have a significant effect on
CIGNA's reported results for the affected period.
    
    CIGNA
faces risks related to litigation and regulatory investigations.
    
    CIGNA is
routinely involved in numerous claims, lawsuits, regulatory audits,
investigations and other legal matters arising in the ordinary course of the
business of administering and insuring employee benefit programs, including
benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, and disputes regarding
reinsurance arrangements.  In addition, CIGNA incurs and likely will
continue to incur liability for claims related to its health care business, such
as failure to pay for or provide health care, poor outcomes for care delivered
or arranged, provider disputes, including disputes over compensation, and claims
related to self-funded business. Also, there are currently, and may be in the
future, attempts to bring class action lawsuits against the
industry.  In addition, CIGNA is involved in pending and threatened
litigation arising out of its run-off reinsurance and retirement
operations.
     
    Court
decisions and legislative activity may increase CIGNA’s exposure for any of
these types of claims. In some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive
damages may be sought. CIGNA currently has insurance coverage for some of these
potential liabilities. Other potential liabilities may not be covered by
insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may not be
sufficient to cover the entire damages awarded. In addition, certain types of
damages, such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance, and
insurance coverage for all or certain forms of liability 
    
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          31
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
    
    may
become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future.
    
       
    
    A
description of material legal actions in which CIGNA is currently involved is
included under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 on pages 35 and 36 and
Note 20(E) to CIGNA’s 2007 Financial Statements on page 101 of this Form
10-K. The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain, and
outcomes that are not justified by the evidence or existing law can
occur.  CIGNA believes that it has valid defenses to the legal matters
pending against it and is defending itself vigorously.  Nevertheless,
it is possible that resolution of one or more legal matters could result in
losses material to CIGNA’s consolidated results of operations, liquidity or
financial condition.
    
    CIGNA’s
business is subject to substantial government regulation, which, along with new
regulation, could increase its costs of doing business and could adversely
affect its profitability.
    
    CIGNA’s
business is regulated at the international, federal, state and local levels. The
laws and rules governing CIGNA’s business and interpretations of those laws and
rules are subject to frequent change. Broad latitude is given to the agencies
administering those regulations. Existing or future laws and rules could force
CIGNA to change how it does business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth,
increase health care, technology and administrative costs including pension
costs and capital requirements, take other actions such as changing our reserve
levels with respect to certain reinsurance contracts, and increase CIGNA’s
liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract
interpretation and other actions.
     
    CIGNA
must comply with the various regulations applicable to its
business.  If CIGNA fails to comply, the Company’s business could be
adversely affected.  In addition, CIGNA must obtain and maintain
regulatory approvals to market many of its products, to increase prices for
certain regulated products and to consummate some of its acquisitions and
divestitures. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain these
approvals could reduce the Company’s revenue or increase its costs.
    
    For
further information on regulatory matters relating to CIGNA, see “Regulation” in
Section I on page 22 and “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 on pages 35 and
36.
    CIGNA
operates a pharmacy benefit management business, which is subject to a number of
risks and uncertainties in addition to those CIGNA faces with its health care
business.
    
    CIGNA's
pharmacy benefit management business is subject to federal and state regulation,
including: the application of federal and state anti-remuneration laws;
compliance requirements for pharmacy benefit manager fiduciaries under ERISA,
including compliance with fiduciary obligations under ERISA in connection with
the development and implementation of items such as formularies, preferred drug
listings and therapeutic intervention programs, contracting network practices,
specialty drug distribution and other transactions and potential liability
regarding the use of patient-identifiable medical information; and federal and
state laws and regulations related to the operation of Internet and mail-service
pharmacies.  Failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations
could affect the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial
condition.  Furthermore, a number of federal and state legislative
proposals are being considered that could adversely affect a variety of pharmacy
benefit industry practices, including without limitation, the receipt of rebates
from pharmaceutical manufacturers, the regulation of the development and use of
formularies, and legislation imposing additional rights to access drugs for
individuals enrolled in managed care plans.
    
    The
Company’s pharmacy benefit management business would also be adversely affected
by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers
and could suffer claims and reputational harm in connection with purported
errors by CIGNA's mail order or retail pharmacy
businesses.  Disruptions at any of the Company's pharmacy business
facilities due to failure of technology or any other failure or disruption to
these systems or to the infrastructure due to fire, electrical outage, natural
disaster, acts of terrorism or some other catastrophic event could reduce
CIGNA's ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and
services to customers, which could negatively impact the Company’s business,
results of operations, and financial condition.
    
    CIGNA
faces competitive pressure, particularly price competition, which could reduce
product margins and constrain growth in CIGNA’s health care
businesses.
    
    While
health plans compete on the basis of many factors, including service quality of
clinical resources, claims 
    
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          32
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
    
    administration
services and medical management programs, and quality and sufficiency of
provider networks,
CIGNA expects that price will continue to be a significant basis of competition.
CIGNA’s customer contracts are subject to negotiation as customers seek to
contain
their costs, and customers may elect to reduce benefits in order to constrain
increases in their benefit costs. Such an election may result in lower premiums
for the Company’s products, although it may also reduce CIGNA’s costs.
Alternatively, the Company’s customers may purchase different types of products
that are less profitable, or move to a competitor to obtain more favorable
premiums.
    
    In
addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the health
care industry giving rise to speculation and uncertainty regarding the status of
companies, which potentially can affect marketing efforts and public perception.
Consolidation may make it more difficult for the Company to retain or increase
customers, to improve the terms on which CIGNA does business with its suppliers,
or to maintain its position or increase profitability. Factors such as business
consolidations, strategic alliances, legislative reform and marketing practices
create pressure to contain premium price increases, despite increasing medical
costs.  For example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act gives banks and other
financial institutions the ability to affiliate with insurance companies, which
may lead to new competitors with significant financial resources in the
insurance and health benefits fields.  If CIGNA does not compete
effectively in its markets, if the Company sets rates too high in highly
competitive markets to keep or increase its market share, if membership
does not increase as it expects, or if it declines, or if CIGNA loses accounts
with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership
in accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience, CIGNA’s product margins
and growth could be adversely affected.
    
    Public
perception of CIGNA's products and practices as well as of the health benefits
industry, if negative, could reduce enrollment in CIGNA’s health benefits
programs.
    
    The
health care industry in general, and CIGNA specifically, are subject to negative
publicity, which can arise either from perceptions regarding the industry or
CIGNA's business practices or products.  This risk may be increased as
CIGNA offers new products, such as products with limited benefits or an
integrated line of products, targeted at market segments, beyond those in which
CIGNA traditionally has operated. Negative publicity may adversely affect the
CIGNA brand and
its ability to market its products and services, which could reduce the number
of enrollees in CIGNA's health benefits programs and adversely affect CIGNA’s
profitability.
    
    Large-scale
public health epidemics, bio-terrorist activity, natural disasters or other
extreme events could cause CIGNA’s covered medical and disability expenses,
pharmacy costs and mortality experience to rise significantly, and in severe
circumstances, could cause operational disruption.
    
    If
widespread public health epidemics such as an influenza pandemic, bio-terrorist
or other attack, or catastrophic natural disaster were to occur, CIGNA’s covered
medical and disability expenses, pharmacy costs and mortality experience could
rise significantly, depending on the government’s actions and the responsiveness
of public health agencies and insurers.  In addition, depending on the
severity of the situation, a widespread outbreak could curtail economic activity
in general, and CIGNA's operations in particular, which could result in
operational and financial disruption to CIGNA, which among other things may
impact the timeliness of claims and revenue.
    
    CIGNA's
business depends on the uninterrupted operation of its systems and business
functions, including information technology and other business
systems.
    
    CIGNA’s
business is highly dependent upon its ability to perform, in an efficient and
uninterrupted fashion, its necessary business functions, such as:  claims
processing and payment; internet support and customer call centers; and the
processing of new and renewal business. A power outage, pandemic, or failure of
one or more of information technology, telecommunications or other systems could
cause slower system response times resulting in claims not being processed as
quickly as clients desire, decreased levels of client service and client
satisfaction, and harm to CIGNA's reputation. In addition, because CIGNA’s
information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend
on third party systems, CIGNA could experience service denials if demand for
such service exceeds capacity or a third party system fails or experiences an
interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business
interruption, systems failure or service denial could result in a
deterioration of CIGNA’s ability to pay claims in a timely 
    
       
      
        
          
          
        
        
          33
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
    
    manner,
provide customer service, write and process new and renewal business, or perform
other necessary corporate
functions. This could result in a materially adverse effect on CIGNA’s business
results and liquidity. 
    
    A
security breach of CIGNA’s computer systems could also interrupt or damage
CIGNA’s operations or harm CIGNA's
reputation. In addition, CIGNA could be subject to liability if sensitive
customer information is misappropriated from CIGNA’s computer systems. These
systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming
errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any publicized
compromise of security could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in the
growth of customers, increased operating expenses, financial losses, additional
litigation or other claims, which could have a material adverse effect on
CIGNA’s business.
    
    CIGNA is
focused on further developing its business continuity program to address
the continuation of core business operations. While CIGNA continues to test and
assess its business continuity program to satisfy the needs of
CIGNA’s core business operations and addresses multiple business
interruption events, there is no assurance that core business operations could
be performed upon the occurrence of such an event.
     
    CIGNA
faces a wide range of risks, and its success depends on its ability to identify,
prioritize and appropriately manage its enterprise risk exposure.
    
    As a
large company operating in a complex industry, CIGNA encounters
a variety of risks as identified in this Risk Factor discussion. CIGNA devotes
resources to developing enterprise-wide risk management processes, in addition
to the risk management processes within its businesses. Failure to appropriately
identify and manage these risks, as well as the failure to identify and take
advantage of appropriate opportunities, can materially affect CIGNA’s
profitability, its ability to retain or grow business, or, in the event of
extreme circumstances, CIGNA’s financial condition.
    
    CIGNA
faces risks relating to its ability to effectively deploy its
capital.
    
    CIGNA’s
operations have generated significant capital in recent periods and the Company
has significant ability to raise additional capital. In deploying its capital to
fund its investments in operations, share repurchases, potential acquisitions
or other
capital uses, CIGNA's financial results could be adversely affected if it does
not appropriately balance its risks and opportunities.
    
    CIGNA
is subject to potential changes in the political environment which affects
public policy and can adversely affect the markets for our
products.
    
    While it
is not possible to predict when and whether fundamental policy changes would
occur, these could include policy changes on the local, state and federal level
that could fundamentally change the dynamics of CIGNA’s industry,
such as a much larger role of the government in the health care
arena.  Changes in public policy could materially affect CIGNA's
profitability, its ability to retain or grow business, or in the event of
extreme circumstances, its financial condition.
    
    If
CIGNA does not successfully manage the pending acquisition and integration of
Great-West Healthcare (or any other acquisition), its results of operations and
financial condition may be adversely affected.
      
    CIGNA
entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Great-West Healthcare with the
expectation that the acquisition will result in various benefits, including,
among others, a broader distribution and provider network in certain geographic
areas, an expanded range of health benefits and products, cost savings,
increased profitability of the acquired business by improving its total medical
cost position, and achievement of operating efficiencies. Achieving the
anticipated benefits of the acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties,
including whether CIGNA integrates Great-West Healthcare in an efficient and
effective manner, and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to
achieve these anticipated benefits could limit CIGNA’s ability to grow
membership particularly in the small business segment, result in increased
costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of
management’s time and energy and could materially impact CIGNA’s business,
results of operations, and financial condition.
    
    CIGNA
faces intense competition to attract and retain key people.
    
    CIGNA
would be adversely impacted if it failed to attract additional key people and
retain current key people as this could result in the inability to effectively
execute the Company’s key initiatives and business strategy.
    
    
      
         

      
      
        34
        
          
        
      
      
         

      
    
    Item 1B