ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

<A
NAME="ck79901_item_1a._risk_factors"> 
    





Item 1A.  Risk Factors      


As a large company operating in a complex industry, we encounter a variety of risks and uncertainties that
could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations or financial condition. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties discussed below, in
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition and information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties are
not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect us.

<A
NAME="ck79901_our_business_is_subject_to_sub__our00316"> 
 






Our business is subject to substantial government regulation, as well as new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws  or regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.      

Our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. The laws and rules governing our business and
related interpretations, including, among others, those associated with Health Care Reform, are increasing in number and complexity, are subject to frequent change and can be inconsistent or in
conflict with each other. As a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, such as those
related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, labor and employment, consumer protection, tax and anti-corruption. 

We
must identify, assess and respond to new trends in the legislative and regulatory environment, as well as comply with the various existing regulations applicable to our business. Existing or future
laws, rules, regulatory interpretations or judgments could force us to change how we conduct our business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase health care, technology and administrative
costs, including capital requirements, and require enhancements to our compliance infrastructure and internal controls environment. Existing or future laws and rules also could require us to take
other actions such as changing our business practices, thereby increasing our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. 

In
the foreseeable future, the impact of existing regulations and future regulatory and legislative changes could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition
and cash flows by, among other things:






 
•
 reducing the potential for growth in revenues and customers by disrupting the employer-based market (currently the primary market for our Commercial
operating segment) if employers cease to offer health care coverage for their employees; 






 
•
 restricting revenue, premium and customer growth in certain products and markets or expansion into new markets; 






 
•
  increasing health care or other benefit costs through enhanced or guaranteed coverage requirements; 







 
•
  increasing operating costs through the imposition of new or increased taxes and other financial assessments,; 






 
•
 restricting our ability to increase premium rates to meet costs (including denial or delays in approval and implementation of those rates);  






 
•
  limiting the level of margin we can earn on premiums through mandated minimum medical loss ratios; and 







 
•
  significantly reducing the level of Medicare program payments. 

Specifically,
in the United States, significant changes are occurring in the health care system as a result of Health Care Reform. Certain of Health Care Reform's provisions have already become
effective and other significant provisions become effective in 2014. While federal agencies have published interim and final regulations with respect to certain requirements, many issues remain
uncertain. It is difficult to predict the impact of Health Care Reform on our business due to the law's complexity, the political environment, the continuing development of implementing regulations
and interpretive guidance and possible future legislative changes. We are unable to predict how these events will develop and what impact they will have on Health Care Reform, and in turn, on our
business including, but not limited to, our relationships with current and future customers, producers and health care providers, products, services, processes and technology. Further, if we fail to
effectively implement or adjust our strategic and operational initiatives, such as by reducing operating costs, adjusting premium pricing or benefit design or transforming our business model, in
response to Health Care Reform and any other future legislative or regulatory changes, this failure may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows,
including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. 

In
addition to the regulation discussed above, we are required to obtain and maintain insurance and other regulatory approvals to market many of our products, increase prices for certain regulated
products and consummate some of our acquisitions and divestitures. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce our revenue or increase our costs. 

For
further information on regulation, see "Business – Regulation" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. See also the description of Health Care Reform's minimum
medical loss ratio and customer rebate requirements in the "Business – Global Health Care" section beginning on page 2 of this Form 10-K. 


<A
NAME="ck79901_we_face_risks_related_to_litig__we_02936"> 
 






 We face risks related to litigation, regulatory audits and investigations.      

We are routinely involved in numerous claims, lawsuits, regulatory audits, investigations and other legal matters arising in the
ordinary course of business, including that of administering and insuring employee benefit programs. These could include benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, disputes regarding
reinsurance arrangements, employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, wage and hour claims, tax, privacy, and intellectual property and real estate related
disputes. In addition, we have incurred and likely will continue to incur liability for claims 

18    CIGNA CORPORATION - 2013 Form 10-K




 

Back to Contents

PART I ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

related
to our health care business, such as failure to pay for or provide health care, poor outcomes for care delivered or arranged, provider disputes, including disputes over compensation, and
claims related to self-funded business. Also, there are currently, and may be in the future, attempts to bring class action lawsuits against the industry. 

Court
decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure for any of these types of claims. In some cases, substantial non-economic or punitive damages may be sought. We seek to procure
insurance coverage to cover some of these potential liabilities. However, certain potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may be
insufficient to cover the entire damages awarded. In addition, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance, and insurance coverage for all or certain forms of
liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. It is possible that the resolution of current or future legal matters and claims could result in losses material to our
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 

We
are frequently the subject of regulatory market conduct and other reviews, audits and investigations by state insurance and health and welfare departments, attorneys general, the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") and the Office of Inspector General ("OIG"). With respect to our Medicare Advantage business, CMS and OIG perform audits to determine a health plan's compliance
with federal regulations and contractual obligations, including compliance with proper coding practices and fraud and abuse enforcement practices through audits designed to detect and correct improper
payments. There also continues to be heightened review by federal and state regulators of business and reporting practices within the health care and disability insurance industry and increased
scrutiny by other state and federal governmental agencies (such as state attorney general offices) empowered to bring criminal actions in circumstances that could have previously have given rise only
to civil or administrative proceedings. These regulatory audits or reviews or actions by other governmental agencies could result in changes to or clarifications of our business practices, retroactive
adjustments to certain premiums, significant fines, penalties, civil liabilities, criminal liabilities or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operation, financial condition and liquidity. 

A
description of material pending legal actions and other legal matters is included in Note 23 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. The outcome of
litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain, and outcomes that are not justified by the evidence or existing law can occur. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_future_performance_of_our_busi__fut05197"> 
 






 Future performance of our business will depend on our ability to execute our strategic and operational initiatives  effectively.      

The future performance of our business will depend in large part on our ability to effectively implement and execute our strategic
and operational initiatives including: (1) driving growth in targeted geographies, product lines, buying segments and distribution channels; (2) improving our strategic and financial
flexibility; and (3) pursuing additional opportunities in high-growth markets with particular focus on individuals. Successfully executing these initiatives depends on a number of factors,
including our ability to:






 
•
  differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; 







 
•
  develop and introduce new products or programs, particularly in response to government regulation and the increased focus on consumer-directed
products; 






 
•
 identify and introduce the proper mix or integration of products that will be accepted by the marketplace; 






 
•
  attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees; 







 
•
  attract and maintain good relationships with a sufficient number of qualified partners, including physicians and other health care providers in an
environment of growing shortages of primary care professionals and consolidation within the provider industry; 






 
•
  improve medical cost competitiveness in targeted markets; 






 
•
  manage our medical and administrative costs effectively; 







 
•
  manage our balance sheet exposures effectively, including our pension funding obligations; and 






 
•
  reduce our Global Health Care operating expenses to achieve sustainable benefits. 


If
these initiatives fail or are not executed effectively, it could harm our consolidated financial position and results of operations. For example, efforts to reduce operating expenses while
maintaining the necessary resources and talent pool are important and, if not managed effectively, could have long-term effects on our business by negatively impacting our ability to drive
improvements in the quality of our products. For our strategic initiatives to succeed, we must effectively integrate our operations, including our acquired businesses, actively work to ensure
consistency throughout the organization, and promote a global mind-set and a focus on individual customers. If we fail to do so, our business may be unable to grow as planned, or the result of
expansion may be unsatisfactory. In addition, the current competitive, economic and regulatory environment requires our organization to adapt rapidly and nimbly to new opportunities and challenges. We
will be unable to do so if we do not make important decisions quickly, define our appetite for risk specifically, implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes smoothly and
communicate roles and responsibilities clearly. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_as_a_global_company,_we_face_p__as_07904"> 
 






As a global company, we face political, legal, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks that present challenges and  could negatively affect our multinational operations and/or our long-term
growth.      

As a global company, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks, which can vary
substantially by market, include political, legal, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks, including government intervention that we do not face in our U.S. operations. The global 

CIGNA CORPORATION - 2013 Form 10-K    19 




 


Back to Contents

PART I ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

nature
of our business and operations may present challenges including, but not limited, to those arising from:






 
•
  varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands; 







 
•
  discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets; 






 
•
  price controls or other pricing issues and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out
of the countries in which we operate or converting local currencies that our foreign operations hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies; 






 
•
  foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations that may have an impact on the future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international
operations, and any measures that we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of our international operations may not be effective; 






 
•
  our reliance on local sales forces for some operations in countries that may have labor problems and/or less flexible employee relationships that can
be difficult and expensive to terminate, or where changes in local regulation or law may disrupt business operations; 






 
•
  effectively managing our partner relationships in countries outside of the United States; 






 
•
  managing more geographically diverse operations and projects; 






 
•
  operating in new foreign markets that may require considerable management time before operations generate any significant revenues and earnings;  <FONT
SIZE=2>







 
•
  the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations; 






 
•
 political instability or acts of war, terrorism, natural disasters or pandemics in locations where we operate; and 






 
•
  general economic and political conditions. 

These
factors may increase in significance as we continue to expand globally, and any one of these challenges could negatively affect our operations or long-term growth. For example, currently, South
Korea is the single largest geographic market in our Global Supplemental Benefits segment. Due to the concentration of business in South Korea, the Global Supplemental Benefits segment is exposed to
potential losses resulting from economic, regulatory and geopolitical developments in that country, as well as foreign currency movements affecting the South Korean currency, that could have a
significant impact on the segment's results and our consolidated financial results. 

International
operations also require us to devote significant resources to implement controls and systems in new markets to comply with U.S. and foreign laws prohibiting bribery, corruption, money
laundering and similar crimes. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or employees, restrictions or outright prohibitions on the
conduct of our business, and significant reputational harm. We must regularly reassess the size, capability and location of our global infrastructure and make appropriate changes, and must have
effective change management processes and internal controls in place to address changes in our business and operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and
manage these difficulties, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and long-term growth. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_there_are_various_risks_associ__the01001"> 
 






There are various risks associated with participating in government-sponsored programs such as Medicare, including dependence  upon government funding, changes occurring as a result of Health Care
Reform, compliance with government contracts and increased regulatory oversight.    


Through our Cigna-HealthSpring business, we contract with CMS and various state governmental agencies to provide managed health care
services, including Medicare Advantage plans and Medicare-approved prescription drug plans. Revenues from the Medicare programs are dependent, in whole or in part, upon annual funding from the federal
government through CMS and/or applicable state or local governments. Funding for these programs is dependent on many factors outside our control, including general economic conditions, continuing
government efforts to contain health care costs and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state or local level and general political issues and priorities. These entities generally have
the right to not renew or cancel their contracts with us on short notice without cause or if funds are not available. Unanticipated changes in funding by the federal or state governments could
substantially reduce our revenues and profitability. 

The
Medicare program has been the subject of recent regulatory reform initiatives, including Health Care Reform. The premium rates paid to Medicare Advantage plans are established by contract,
although the rates differ depending on a combination of factors, many of
which are outside our control. Effective in 2012, Health Care Reform ties a portion of each Medicare Advantage plan's reimbursement to the plan's "star rating" by CMS, with those plans receiving a
rating of three or more stars eligible for quality-based bonus payments. The star rating system considers various measures adopted by CMS, including, among other things, quality of care, preventative
services, chronic illness management and customer satisfaction. Beginning in 2015, plans must have a star rating of four or higher to qualify for bonus payments. Our Medicare Advantage plans'
operating results, premium revenue and benefit offerings are likely to continue to be significantly determined by their star ratings. If we do not maintain or continue to improve our star ratings, our
plans may not be eligible for full-level quality bonuses, which could adversely affect the benefits that our plans can offer, reduce our customer base and/or reduce margins. 

Contracts
with CMS and the various state governmental agencies contain certain provisions regarding data submission, provider network maintenance, quality measures, claims payment, continuity of care,
call center performance and other requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines or penalties that could impact our profitability. 

In
addition, any failure to comply with various state and federal health care laws and regulations, including those directed at preventing fraud and abuse in government funded programs, could result
in 

20    CIGNA CORPORATION - 2013 Form 10-K




 

Back to Contents

PART I ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

investigations
or litigation, with the imposition of fines, limitations on our ability to expand, restrictions or exclusions from program participation or other agreements with a federal or state
governmental agency that could adversely impact our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. 

In
addition, our Medicare Advantage and Medicare prescription drug businesses face a number of others risks including potential uncollectible receivables resulting from processing and/or verifying
enrollment, inadequate underwriting assumptions, inability to receive and process correct information, increased medical or pharmaceutical costs. Actual results may be materially different than our
assumptions and estimates regarding these complex and wide-ranging programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Finally,
our Cigna-HealthSpring business may underperform, relative to our expectations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. For example,
if our existing contracts are not renewed, or if we are not awarded new contracts as a result of this competitive procurement process, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash
flows, financial condition and results of operations. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_if_we_fail_to_develop_and_main__if_07472"> 
 






 If we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals and other health care providers, our  business and results of operations may be adversely affected.    
 

We contract with physicians, hospitals and other health care providers for services rendered to our customers. Our results of
operations are substantially dependent on our ability to contract for these services at competitive prices. In any particular market, physicians, hospitals and health care providers could refuse to
contract, demand higher payments or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs or less desirable products for our customers. In some markets, certain providers, particularly
hospitals, physician/hospital organizations and multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant or controlling market positions that could result in a diminished bargaining position for us. If
providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those
areas could be materially and adversely affected. 

Our
ability to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers also may be negatively impacted by other factors not associated with us, such as changes in Medicare and/or
Medicaid reimbursement levels, increasing revenue and other pressures on health care providers and consolidation activity among hospitals, physician groups and health care providers. For example,
ongoing reductions by CMS and state governments in amounts payable to providers, particularly hospitals, for services provided to Medicare and Medicaid enrollees may pressure the financial condition
of certain providers and, in turn, adversely impact our ability to maintain or develop new cost-effective health care provider contracts or result in a loss of revenues or customers. 

Recent
and continuing consolidation among physicians, hospitals and other health care providers, development of accountable care organizations and other changes in the organizational structures that
physicians, hospitals and health care providers choose may change the way these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape in which we operate. In some instances, these
organizations may compete directly with us, potentially affecting the way that we price our products or causing us to incur increased costs if we change our operations to be more competitive. Our
focus on developing collaborative accountable care organizations and independent practice associations or similar business arrangements with physicians and other health care providers may not achieve
intended benefits, which could adversely affect our strategy or prospects. 

Out-of-network
providers do not have a pre-established understanding with us about the amount of compensation due for their services. Some states define by law or regulation the amounts due, but in
most instances it is not defined or is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. In such instances, providers may believe that they were underpaid and may litigate
or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our customers the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. The outcome of disputes where we do not have a
provider contract may cause us to pay higher medical or other benefit costs than we projected. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_we_are_dependent_on_the_succes__we_06235"> 
 






We are dependent on the success of our relationships with third parties for various services and functions, including pharmacy  benefit management services.      

To improve operating costs, productivity and efficiencies, we outsource to, or enter into partnership arrangements with, third
parties for selected services and functions. These third parties include Catamaran Corporation for pharmacy benefit management services and various other service providers in areas such as information
technology, independent practice associations, medical management services, call centers and claim services. Our operations may be vulnerable if these third parties fail to satisfy their obligations
to us or if the arrangement is terminated for any reason. Even though contracts are intended to provide certain protections, we have limited control over the actions of third parties. For example,
noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations or any security breach involving one of our third-party vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations, financial condition, liquidity and reputation. In addition, with respect to outsourced services or functions to third parties in foreign jurisdictions, we also are exposed to risks
inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. 

Outsourcing
also may require us to change our existing operations, adopt new processes for managing these providers and/or redistribute responsibilities to realize the potential productivity and
operational efficiencies. If there are delays or difficulties in changing business processes or our third party vendors do not perform as expected, we may not realize, or realize on a timely basis,
the anticipated economic and other benefits of these relationships that could result in substantial costs or regulatory compliance issues, divert management's attention from other strategic
activities, negatively affect employee 

CIGNA CORPORATION - 2013 Form 10-K    21 




 

Back to Contents


PART I ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

morale
or create other operational or financial problems for us. Terminating or transitioning arrangements with key vendors could result in additional costs or penalties, risks of operational delays
or potential errors and control issues during the termination or transition phase. We may not be able to find an alternative partner in a timely manner or on acceptable financial terms. If there is an
interruption in business or loss of access to data resulting from a termination or transition, we may not be able to meet the demands of our customers and, in turn, our business and results of
operations could be unfavorably impacted. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_acquisitions,_joint_ventures_a__acq08662"> 
 







 Acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions involve risks and we may not realize the expected benefits because of  integration difficulties, underperformance relative to our expectations and
 other challenges.      

As part of our growth strategy, we regularly consider and enter into strategic transactions, including mergers, acquisitions, joint
ventures, licenses and other partnerships (collectively referred to as "transactions"), with the expectation that these transactions will result in various benefits. Our ability to achieve the
anticipated benefits of these transactions is subject to numerous uncertainties and risks, including our ability to integrate operations, resources and systems in an efficient and effective manner;
the failure to achieve expected revenues, earnings or cash flow, business opportunities, efficiencies, growth prospects or other anticipated benefits;
challenges in implementing business plans; changes in laws and regulations or conditions imposed by regulators applicable to the business; retaining key employees; and general competitive factors in
the marketplace. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in expected revenues, earnings or cash flow, and goodwill or other intangible asset impairment
charges. Further, we may finance transactions by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price, which could dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders, or by incurring additional
debt that could impact our ability to access capital in the future. 

In
addition, effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and to mitigate the risk of fraud. The integration of businesses is likely to result in our
systems and internal controls becoming increasingly complex and more difficult to manage. Any difficulties in the assimilation of businesses into our control system could cause us to fail to meet our
financial reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls also could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could negatively impact the trading price of
our stock and our access to capital. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_our_business_depends_on_our_ab__our08851"> 
 







 Our business depends on our ability to properly maintain the integrity of our data and the uninterrupted operation of our  systems and business functions, including information technology and other
 business systems.      

Our business is highly dependent on maintaining both effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we
use to serve our customers and health care professionals and to operate our business. If our data were found to be inaccurate or unreliable due to fraud or other error, or if we (or the third-party
service parties we utilize) were to fail to maintain information systems and data integrity effectively, we could experience operational disruptions that may impact our customers and health care
professionals and hinder our ability to establish appropriate pricing for products and services, retain and attract customers, establish reserves and report financial results timely and accurately and
maintain regulatory compliance, among other things. 

In
addition, our business is highly dependent upon our ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as: claims processing and payment; internet
support and customer call centers; and the processing of new and renewal business. A power outage, cyber-attack or other failure of one or more of information technology or other systems could cause
slower response times, resulting in claims not being processed as quickly as clients or customers desire, decreased levels of client or customer service and satisfaction, and harm to our reputation.
Because our information technology and other systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party
system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, systems failure or service denial could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity. 

Like
other companies in our industry, we have been and may in the future be the subject of cyber-security breaches. Computer systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses,
programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. If a cyber-security breach of our systems or the systems of a third-party service provider occurs, it could also interrupt
our operations and damage our reputation. We also could be subject to liability if sensitive customer information is misappropriated. Any compromise of security could result in additional government
regulations, the loss of existing customers, impaired ability to secure new customers, increased operating expenses, financial losses, and additional litigation or other claims that could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_effective_investment_in_and_ex__eff00700"> 
 






Effective investment in and execution of improvements to our information technology infrastructure and functionality are  important to our strategy and failure to do so may impede our ability to
deliver cost-effective services necessary to compete in the market.      

Our information technology strategy and execution are critical to our continued success. Increasing regulatory and legislative
mandated changes will place additional demands on our information technology infrastructure that could have a direct impact on available resources for projects more directly tied to strategic
initiatives. We must continue to invest in long-term solutions that will enable us to anticipate customer needs and expectations, enhance the customer experience and act as a differentiator in the
market. Our success is 

22    CIGNA CORPORATION - 2013 Form 10-K




 

Back to Contents

PART I ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

dependent,
in large part, on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and continuing to deliver and enhance technology systems that support our business processes in a
cost-efficient and resource-efficient manner. We also must develop new systems to meet current market standards and keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving
industry and regulatory standards and customer needs. Failure to do so may impede our ability to deliver services at a competitive cost. Further, system development projects are long-term in nature,
may be more costly than expected to complete and may not deliver the expected benefits upon completion. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_effective_prevention,_detectio__eff06910"> 
 






 Effective prevention, detection and control systems are critical to maintain regulatory compliance and prevent fraud and  failure of these systems could adversely affect us.    
 

Federal and state governments have made investigating and prosecuting health care and other insurance fraud and abuse a priority.
Fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing for unnecessary medical services, improper marketing, and violations of patient
privacy rights. The regulations and contractual requirements applicable to us are complex and subject to change. In addition, ongoing vigorous law enforcement, a highly technical regulatory scheme and
the Dodd-Frank legislation and related regulations being adopted to enhance regulators' enforcement powers and whistleblower incentives and protections mean that our compliance efforts in this area
will continue to require significant resources. Failure of our prevention, detection or control systems related to regulatory compliance or the failure of employees to comply with our internal
policies, including data systems security or unethical conduct by managers and employees, could adversely affect our reputation and also expose us to litigation and other proceedings, fines and
penalties. 

In
addition, provider or customer fraud that is not prevented or detected could impact our medical costs or those of our self-insured customers. Further, during an economic downturn, we may experience
increased fraudulent claims volume that may lead to additional costs due to an increase in disputed claims and litigation. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_our_pharmacy_benefit_managemen__our07219"> 
 






Our pharmacy benefit management business and related operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that are in  addition to those we face in our health care business.    


Notwithstanding our agreement with Catamaran, we remain responsible to regulators and members for the delivery of pharmacy benefit
management services. This business is subject to federal and state regulation, including federal and state anti-remuneration laws, ERISA, HIPAA and laws related to the operation of Internet and
mail-service pharmacies. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are pharmacies subject to state licensing and U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency registration requirements and laws concerning labeling,
packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. Noncompliance with such regulations by us or Catamaran could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and reputation. 


Our
pharmacy benefit management business also would be adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and we could suffer claims and reputational
harm in connection with purported errors by mail order or retail pharmacy businesses. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_in_operating_onsite_clinics_an__in_06277"> 
 






In operating onsite clinics and other types of medical facilities, we may be subject to additional liability that could result  in significant time and expense.      

In addition to contracting with physicians and other health care providers for services, we employ physicians and other health care
professionals at onsite low acuity and primary care clinics that we operate for our customers (as well as certain clinics for our employees). In addition, our Cigna-HealthSpring business operates
LivingWell health centers and we own and operate multispecialty health care centers, low acuity clinics and other types of centers in the Phoenix, Arizona metropolitan area that employ physicians and
other health care professionals. As a direct employer of health care professionals and as an owner or operator of medical facilities, we are subject to liability for negligent acts, omissions, or
injuries occurring at one of these clinics or caused by one of our employees. Even if any claims brought against us were unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend against such claims. The
defense of any actions may result in significant expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_we_face_price_competition_and___we_08370"> 
 






We face price competition and other pressures that could result in premiums that are insufficient to cover the cost of the  health care services delivered to our members and inadequate medical claims
reserves.      

While health plans compete on the basis of many service and quality-related factors, we expect that price will continue to be a
significant basis of competition. Our customer contracts are subject to negotiation as customers seek to contain their costs, including by electing to reduce benefits. Alternatively, our customers may
purchase different types of products that are less profitable, or move to a competitor to obtain more favorable premiums. Each of these events would likely negatively impact our financial results. 

Further,
federal and state regulatory agencies may restrict our ability to implement changes in premium rates. For example, Health Care Reform includes an annual rate review requirement to prohibit
unreasonable rate increases. Fiscal concerns regarding the continued viability of programs such as Medicare may cause decreasing reimbursement rates, delays in premium payments or insufficient
increases in reimbursement rates for government-sponsored programs in which we participate. Any limitation on our ability to maintain or increase our premium or reimbursement levels, or a significant
loss of membership resulting from our need to increase or maintain premium or reimbursement levels, could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. 

CIGNA CORPORATION - 2013 Form 10-K    23 




 

Back to Contents

PART I ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

In
addition, factors such as business consolidations, strategic alliances, legislation and marketing practices will likely continue to create pressure to contain or otherwise restrict premium price
increases, despite increasing medical costs. For example, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act gives banks and other financial institutions the ability to be affiliated with insurance companies. This may lead
to new competitors with significant financial resources. Our product margins and growth depend, in part, on our ability to compete effectively in our markets, set rates appropriately in highly
competitive markets to keep or increase our market share, increase membership as planned, and avoid losing accounts with favorable medical cost experience while retaining or increasing membership in
accounts with unfavorable medical cost experience. 

Premiums
in the health care business are generally set for one-year periods, based on our estimate of future health care costs over such period. Actual costs may exceed what we estimated and charged
in premiums due to factors such as medical cost inflation, higher than expected utilization of medical services, the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology, and membership mix. Our
profitability depends, in part, on our ability to accurately predict and control future health care costs through underwriting criteria, provider contracting, utilization management and product
design. 

We
record medical claims reserves on our balance sheet for estimated future payments. While we continually review estimates of future payments relating to medical claims costs for services incurred in
the current and prior periods and make adjustments to our reserves, the actual health care costs may exceed the reserves we have recorded. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_significant_stock_market_or_in__sig07805"> 
 






 Significant stock market or interest rate declines could result in additional unfunded pension obligations, resulting in the  need for additional plan funding by us and increased pension expenses.
   

We currently have unfunded obligations in our frozen pension plans. A significant decline in the value of the plan's equity and fixed
income investments or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially increase our expenses and change the timing and amount of required plan funding that could reduce the cash
available to us, including our subsidiaries. We also are exposed to interest rate and equity risk associated with our pension and other post-retirement obligations. Sustained declines in interest
rates could have an adverse impact on the funded status of our pension plans and our reinvestment yield on new investments. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more
information on our obligations under the pension plan. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_significant_changes_in_market___sig07262"> 
 






Significant changes in market interest rates affect the value of our financial instruments that promise a fixed return or  benefit and the value of particular assets and liabilities.    


As an insurer, we have substantial investment assets that support insurance and contract holder deposit liabilities. Generally low
levels of interest rates on investments, such as those experienced in U.S. and foreign financial markets during recent years, have negatively impacted our level of investment income earned in recent
periods. 

Substantially
all of our investment assets are in fixed interest-yielding debt securities of varying maturities, fixed redeemable preferred securities and commercial mortgage loans. The value of these
investment assets can fluctuate significantly with changes in market conditions. A rise in interest rates would likely reduce the value of our investment portfolio and increase interest expense if we
were to access our available lines of credit. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_a_downgrade_in_the_financial_s__a_d00942"> 
 






A downgrade in the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect new sales and retention of  current business, and a downgrade in our debt ratings would increase the
cost of borrowed funds and negatively affect our ability to access capital.    


Financial strength, claims paying ability and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are each important factors in
establishing the competitive position of insurance and health benefits companies. Ratings information by nationally recognized ratings agencies is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout
the industry. We believe that the claims paying ability and financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries are an important factor in marketing our products to certain customers.
Our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings, and accordingly, our cost of capital. Each of the rating agencies reviews ratings periodically and there can be no
assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. A
downgrade of these ratings in the future could make it more difficult to market our products successfully and/or raise capital to support business growth within our insurance subsidiaries. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_global_market,_economic_and_ge__glo08939"> 
 






Global market, economic and geopolitical conditions may cause fluctuations in equity market prices, interest rates and credit  spreads that could impact our ability to raise or deploy capital and
affect our overall liquidity.      


If the equity markets and credit market experience extreme volatility and disruption, there could be downward pressure on stock
prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. Extreme disruption in the credit markets could adversely impact our availability and cost
of credit in the future. In addition, unpredictable or unstable market conditions or continued pressure in the global or U.S. economy, such as the sovereign debt crisis in the European Union and
uncertainty regarding the U.S. fiscal position, including the federal debt ceiling, could result in reduced opportunities to find suitable opportunities to raise capital. 

As
of December 31, 2013, our outstanding long-term debt totaled $5.0 billion. Our debt obligations could make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and
require us to dedicate increased cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on its debt, thereby reducing the funds we have available for other purposes, such as investments in
ongoing businesses, acquisitions, dividends and stock repurchases. In these circumstances, our ability to execute our strategy may be limited, our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in
business and 

24    CIGNA CORPORATION - 2013 Form 10-K




 

Back to Contents

PART I ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

market
conditions may be reduced, or our access to capital markets may be limited such that additional capital may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. 

<A
NAME="ck79901_unfavorable_developments_in_ec__unf05182"> 
 






 Unfavorable developments in economic conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial  condition.      

The economic conditions in the United States and globally continue to be challenging. Continued concerns about slow economic growth,
high unemployment rates, the sovereign debt crisis in the European Union and uncertainty regarding the U.S. fiscal position, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit and other capital,
consumer spending and other factors continue to negatively impact expectations for the U.S. and global economy. Our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the impact of
unfavorable economic conditions on our customers (both employers and individuals), health care providers and third-party
vendors. For example:






 
•
  Employers may take action to reduce their operating costs by modifying, delaying or canceling plans to purchase our products or making changes in the
mix of products purchased that are unfavorable to us. 






 
•
  Higher unemployment rates and workforce reductions could result in lower enrollment in our employer-based plans (including an increase in the number
of employees who opt out of employer-based plans) or our individual plans. 






 
•
  Because of unfavorable economic conditions or Health Care Reform, employers may stop offering health care coverage to employees or elect to offer
this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. 







 
•
  Our historical disability claim experience and industry data indicate that submitted disability claims rise under adverse economic conditions.  <FONT
SIZE=2>






 
•
 If customers are not successful in generating sufficient profits or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay
payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. 






 
•
  Our customers or potential customers may force us to compete more vigorously on factors such as price and service to retain or obtain their business. 








 
•
  A prolonged unfavorable economic environment could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other health care providers, potentially
increasing our medical costs as these providers attempt to maintain revenue levels in their efforts to adjust to their own economic challenges. 







 
•
  Our third-party vendors could significantly and quickly increase their prices or reduce their output to reduce their operating costs. Our business
depends on our ability to perform necessary business functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion. 

These
factors could lead to a decrease in our customer base, revenues or margins and/or an increase in our operating costs. 

In
addition, during a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in state and
federal government programs, such as Medicare and Social Security. These state and federal budgetary pressures also could cause the government to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments
on us, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and HMOs and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims.
Although we could attempt to mitigate or cover our exposure from such increased costs through, among other things, increases in premiums, there can be no assurance that we will be able to mitigate or
cover all of such costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 


<A
NAME="ck79901_we_are_subject_to_the_credit_risk_of_our_reinsurers."> 
 






 We are subject to the credit risk of our reinsurers.      

We enter into reinsurance arrangements with other insurance companies, primarily to limit losses from large exposures or to permit
recovery of a portion of direct losses. We also may enter into reinsurance arrangements in connection with acquisition or divestiture transactions when the underwriting company is not being acquired
or sold. 

Under
all reinsurance arrangements, reinsurers assume insured losses, subject to certain limitations or exceptions that may include a loss limit. These arrangements also subject us to various
obligations, representations and warranties with the reinsurers. Reinsurance does not relieve us of liability as the originating insurer. We remain liable to the underlying policyholders if a
reinsurer defaults on obligations under the reinsurance arrangement. Although we regularly evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers to minimize exposure to significant losses from reinsurer
insolvencies, reinsurers may become financially unsound. If a reinsurer fails to meet its obligations under the reinsurance contract or if the liabilities exceed any applicable loss limit, we will be
forced to cover the claims on the reinsured policies. 

The
collectability of amounts due from reinsurers is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including whether the insured losses meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance
contract, whether reinsurers or their affiliates have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of the reinsurance contract, and the magnitude and type of collateral
supporting our reinsurance recoverable, such as by holding sufficient qualifying assets in trusts or letters of credit issued. Although a portion of our reinsurance exposures are secured, the
inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 

CIGNA CORPORATION - 2013 Form 10-K    25 






<A
NAME="page_cm79901_1_26"> 









































Back to Contents 

PART I  ITEM 1B