Item 1A.  Risk Factors.This report includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, Comerica may make other written and oral communications from time to time that contain such statements. All statements regarding Comerica’s expected financial position, strategies and growth prospects and general economic conditions Comerica expects to exist in the future are forward-looking statements. The words, “anticipates,” “believes,” “feels,” “expects,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “strives,” “plans,” “intends,” “outlook,” “forecast,” “position,” “target,” “mission,” “assume,” “achievable,” “potential,” “strategy,” “goal,” “aspiration,” "opportunity," "initiative," “outcome,” “continue,” “remain,” “maintain,” "on course," “trend,” “objective,” "looks forward" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “might,” “can,” “may” or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements.12Table of ContentsComerica cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement is made, and Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.In addition to factors mentioned elsewhere in this Report or previously disclosed in Comerica’s SEC reports (accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov or on Comerica’s website at www.comerica.com), the factors contained below, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from historical performance.•General political, economic or industry conditions, either domestically or internationally, may be less favorable than expected.Local, domestic, and international economic, political and industry specific conditions affect the financial services industry, directly and indirectly. Conditions such as or related to inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, international conflicts and other factors, such as real estate values, energy costs, fuel prices, state and local municipal budget deficits, the European debt crisis and government spending and the U.S. national debt, outside of our control may, directly and indirectly, adversely affect Comerica. As has been the case with the impact of recent economic conditions, economic downturns could result in the delinquency of outstanding loans, which could have a material adverse impact on Comerica’s earnings.•Governmental monetary and fiscal policies may adversely affect the financial services industry, and therefore impact Comerica’s financial condition and results of operations.Monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the Federal Reserve Board, affect the financial services industry, directly and indirectly. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States and its monetary and fiscal policies determine in a large part Comerica’s cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on such loans and investments. Changes in such policies, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the value of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Changes in monetary and fiscal policies are beyond Comerica’s control and difficult to predict. Comerica’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted by changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies.•Volatility and disruptions in global capital and credit markets may adversely impact Comerica’s business, financial condition and results of operations.Global capital and credit markets are sometimes subject to periods of extreme volatility and disruption. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may limit Comerica’s ability to access capital and manage liquidity, which may adversely affect Comerica’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, Comerica’s customers may be adversely impacted by such conditions, which could have a negative impact on Comerica’s business, financial condition and results of operations.•Any reduction in our credit rating could adversely affect Comerica and/or the holders of its securities.Rating agencies regularly evaluate Comerica, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including Comerica's financial strength as well as factors not entirely within its control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally.  There can be no assurance that Comerica will maintain its current ratings. In December 2011, Moody's Investors Service placed Comerica on review for a possible downgrade.  A downgrade to Comerica or its subsidiaries' credit ratings could affect its ability to access the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and negatively impact its profitability.  A ratings downgrade to Comerica, its subsidiaries or their securities could also create obligations or liabilities to Comerica under the terms of its outstanding securities that could increase Comerica's costs or otherwise have a negative effect on Comerica's results of operations or financial condition.  Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by Comerica or its subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold.•The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect Comerica.Comerica’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of 13Table of Contentstrading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Comerica has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and it routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led, and may further lead, to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions could expose Comerica to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, Comerica’s credit risk may be impacted when the collateral held by it cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to Comerica. There is no assurance that any such losses would not adversely affect, possible materially in nature, Comerica.•Changes in regulation or oversight may have a material adverse impact on Comerica's operations.Comerica is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the U.S. Treasury, the Texas Department of Banking, the FDIC, the FRB, the SEC and other regulatory bodies. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which Comerica may engage. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on Comerica's operations, investigations and limitations related to Comerica's securities, the classification of Comerica's assets and determination of the level of Comerica's allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material adverse impact on Comerica's business, financial condition or results of operations.  In particular, Congress and other regulators have recently increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry:During the second quarter of 2009, the FDIC levied an industry-wide special assessment charge on insured financial institutions as part of the agency's efforts to rebuild DIF. In November 2009, the FDIC amended regulations that required insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010-2012. The prepaid assessments will be applied against future quarterly assessments (as they may be so revised) until the prepaid assessment is exhausted or the balance of the prepayment is returned, whichever occurs first. The FDIC is not precluded from changing assessment rates or from further revising the risk-based assessment system during the prepayment period or thereafter. Thus, Comerica may also be required to pay significantly higher FDIC insurance assessments premiums in the future because market developments significantly depleted DIF and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Additional information on the impact of the FDIC's risk-based deposit premium assessment system is presented in “FDIC Insurance Assessments” in the “Supervisory and Regulation” section.On January 14, 2010, the current administration announced a proposal to impose a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee on those financial institutions that benefited from recent actions taken by the U.S. government to stabilize the financial system. If implemented as initially proposed, the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee will be applied to firms with over $50 billion in consolidated assets, and, therefore, by its terms would apply to Comerica. On February 14, 2011, the administration included a revised Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee in its proposed fiscal 2012 budget. On February 1, 2012, the Obama administration proposed to use a portion of the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee to provide certain eligible homeowners who are current on their mortgage payments with an opportunity to refinance.On July 21, 2010, the Financial Reform Act was signed into law. The Financial Reform Act implements a variety of far-reaching changes and has been called the most sweeping reform of the financial services industry since the 1930s. Many of the provisions of the Financial Reform Act will directly affect or have directly affected Comerica's ability to conduct its business, including, but not limited to:•Creation of the FSOC that may recommend to the FRB enhanced prudential standards, including increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity;•Application of the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies, such as Comerica, which, among other things, will, after a three-year phase-in period which begins January 1, 2013, remove trust preferred securities as a permitted component of a holding company's Tier 1 capital;14Table of Contents•Increases in the FDIC assessment for depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more, such as Comerica Bank, and increases the minimum reserve ratio for the FDIC's Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15% to 1.35%;•Repeal of the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts;•Establishment of a CFPB with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and, for bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in assets, to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws; •Restrictions on banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading and private fund sponsorship and investment activities; •Created a new framework for the regulation of OTC derivatives activities; and•Enactment of rules limiting debit-card interchange fees.  Additional information on the changes to interchange fees, the Volcker Rule and enhanced prudential requirements is set forth in “Other Recent Legislative and Regulatory Developments” of the “Supervisory and Regulation” section.  For more information on the Financial Reform Act, please refer to “The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” of the “Supervision and Regulation” section above.  Many provisions in the Financial Reform Act remain subject to regulatory rule-making and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known.  The BCBS issued the Basel III capital framework in December 2010, which significantly increases regulatory capital requirements. The Basel III capital standards, as well as strict new liquidity requirements adopted by the BCBS, will be phased in over a period of several years and are now subject to individual adoption by member nations, including the United States. Further information concerning the Basel III framework is set forth in “Other Recent Legislative and Regulatory Developments” of the “Supervisory and Regulation” section.  On November 22, 2011, the FRB issued a final rule requiring top-tier U.S. bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit annual capital plans for review, and issued instructions regarding stress testing as part of the 2012 Capital Plan Review program.  Under the rule, the FRB will annually evaluate institutions' capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy assessment processes, and their plans to make capital distributions, such as dividend payments or stock repurchases.  As required, Comerica submitted its capital plan to the FRB on January 9, 2012, and expects to receive the results of the FRB's review of the plan by mid-March.On January 3, 2012, the Department of the Treasury published proposed regulations to implement, beginning July 20, 2012, a semi-annual assessment scheme  for covering expenses of the OFR based on the asset size of each assessed company as of the end of the preceding year. The effects of such recently enacted legislation and regulatory actions on Comerica cannot reliably be fully determined at this time. Moreover, as some of the legislation and regulatory actions previously implemented in response to the recent financial crisis expire, the impact of the conclusion of these programs on the financial sector and on the economic recovery is unknown. Any delay in the economic recovery or a worsening of current financial market conditions could adversely affect Comerica. We can neither predict when or whether future regulatory or legislative reforms will be enacted nor what their contents will be. The impact of any future legislation or regulatory actions on Comerica's businesses or operations cannot be reliably determined at this time, and such impact may adversely affect Comerica.•Unfavorable developments concerning credit quality could adversely affect Comerica’s financial results.Although Comerica regularly reviews credit exposure related to its customers and various industry sectors in which it has business relationships, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Under such circumstances, Comerica could experience an increase in the level of provision for credit losses, nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and reserve for credit losses, which could adversely affect Comerica’s financial results.15Table of Contents•Comerica’s acquisition of Sterling or any future strategic acquisitions or divestitures may present certain risks to Comerica’s business and operations.Comerica completed the acquisition of Sterling on July 28, 2011, and completed systems integrations on November 14, 2011. Difficulties in capitalizing on the opportunities presented by the Sterling acquisition may prevent Comerica from fully achieving the expected benefits from the acquisition, or may cause the achievement of such expectations to take longer to realize than expected. Further, the assimilation of Comerica's and Sterling's customers and markets could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of Comerica's businesses or the businesses of Sterling or otherwise adversely affect Comerica's ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. These matters could have an adverse effect on Comerica for an undetermined period. Comerica will be subject to similar risks and difficulties in connection with any future acquisitions or decisions to downsize, sell or close units or otherwise change the business mix of the Corporation.•Compliance with more stringent capital and liquidity requirements may adversely affect Comerica.As discussed above, the Financial Reform Act creates a FSOC that may recommend to the FRB enhanced capital requirements for financial institutions as they grow in size and complexity and imposes higher risk-based capital and leverage requirements, which, among other things, will, after a three-year phase-in period beginning in January 1, 2013, remove trust preferred securities as a permitted component of Tier 1 capital. Moreover, the capital requirements applicable to us as a bank holding company as well as to our subsidiary banks are in the process of being substantially revised, in connection with Basel III and the requirements of the Financial Reform Act. These requirements, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect Comerica's ability to pay dividends, or could require Comerica to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition and/or existing shareholders.  The liquidity requirements applicable to Comerica as a bank holding company as well as to our subsidiary banks also are in the process of being substantially revised, in connection with recently proposed supervisory guidance, Basel III and the requirements of the Financial Reform Act. In light of these new legal and regulatory requirements, Comerica and our subsidiary banks may be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, liquidity standards, including, for the first time, quantitative standards for liquidity management. We cannot fully predict at this time the final form of, or the effects of, these regulations.  Additional information on the liquidity requirements applicable to Comerica is set forth in the “Supervision and Regulation” section.   The ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including treatment and implementation by the U.S. banking regulators.  However, maintaining higher levels of capital and liquidity may reduce Comerica's profitability and otherwise adversely affect its business, financial condition, or results of operations.  •Declines in the businesses or industries of Comerica's customers could cause increased credit losses, which could adversely affect Comerica.Comerica's business customer base consists, in part, of customers in volatile businesses and industries such as the energy industry, the automotive production industry and the real estate business.  These industries are sensitive to global economic conditions and supply chain factors.  Any decline in one of those customers' businesses or industries could cause increased credit losses, which in turn could adversely affect Comerica.•The introduction, implementation, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies, including, but not limited to, the opening of new banking centers, may be less successful or may be different than anticipated, which could adversely affect Comerica’s business.Comerica makes certain projections and develops plans and strategies for its banking and financial products. If Comerica does not accurately determine demand for its banking and financial product needs, it could result in Comerica incurring significant expenses without the anticipated increases in revenue, which could result in a material adverse effect on its business.•Proposed revenue enhancements and efficiency improvements may not be achieved.Comerica has announced a 2012 profit improvement plan that focuses on revenue enhancements and expense reduction initiatives.  The estimates and assumptions underlying the profit improvement plan may or may not prove to be accurate in some respects.  Additionally, Comerica's 2012 performance is subject to the various risks inherent to its 16Table of Contentsbusiness and operations.  There may be delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost savings plans and higher than expected or unanticipated costs to implement them, and some benefits may not be fully achieved.  Furthermore, the implementation of the profit improvement plan may have unintended impacts on Comerica's ability to attract and retain business and customers, while revenue enhancement ideas may not be successful in the marketplace.  Accordingly, Comerica's results of operations and profitability may be negatively impacted, making it less competitive and potentially causing the loss of market share.•Comerica may not be able to utilize technology to efficiently and effectively develop, market, and deliver new products and services to its customers. The financial services industry experiences rapid technological change with regular introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The efficient and effective utilization of technology enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Comerica's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to market and deliver products and services that will satisfy customer demands, meet regulatory requirements, and create additional efficiencies in Comerica's operations. Comerica may not be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing or supporting these products and services to its customers, which could have a material adverse impact on Comerica's financial condition and results of operations.•Operational difficulties, failure of technology infrastructure or information security incidents could adversely affect Comerica's business and operations.Comerica is exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, failure of Comerica's controls and procedures and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or recordkeeping errors or those resulting from computer or telecommunications systems malfunctions.   Given the high volume of transactions at Comerica, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are identified and resolved. In particular, Comerica's operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on its technology systems and networks. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in Comerica's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems.  Comerica also faces the risk of operational disruption, failure or capacity constraints due to its dependency on third party vendors for components of its business infrastructure. While Comerica has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their operations. As such, any failure on the part of these business partners to perform their various responsibilities could also adversely affect Comerica's business and operations. Comerica may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control, which may include, for example, computer viruses, cyberattacks, spikes in transaction volume and/or customer activity, electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters. Although Comerica has programs in place related to business continuity, disaster recovery and information security to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its systems, business applications and customer information, such disruptions may give rise to interruptions in service to customers and loss or liability to Comerica. The occurrence of any failure or interruption in Comerica's operations or information systems, or any security breach, could cause reputational damage, jeopardize the confidentiality of customer information, result in a loss of customer business, subject Comerica to regulatory intervention or expose it to civil litigation and financial loss or liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Comerica.•Changes in the financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on deposit pricing, could adversely affect Comerica’s net interest income and balance sheet.The operations of financial institutions such as Comerica are dependent to a large degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. Prevailing economic conditions, the trade, fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and the policies of various regulatory agencies all affect market rates of interest and the availability and cost of credit, which in turn significantly affect financial institutions’ net interest income. Volatility in interest rates can also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as federal government and corporate securities and other investment vehicles, which, because of the absence of federal insurance 17Table of Contentspremiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions. Comerica’s financial results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in financial market conditions.•Competitive product and pricing pressures among financial institutions within Comerica’s markets may change.Comerica operates in a very competitive environment, which is characterized by competition from a number of other financial institutions in each market in which it operates. Comerica competes with large national and regional financial institutions and with smaller financial institutions in terms of products and pricing. If Comerica is unable to compete effectively in products and pricing in its markets, business could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on Comerica’s business, financial condition or results of operations.•Changes in customer behavior may adversely impact Comerica’s business, financial condition and results of operations.Comerica uses a variety of financial tools, models and other methods to anticipate customer behavior as a part of its strategic planning and to meet certain regulatory requirements. Individual, economic, political, industry-specific conditions and other factors outside of Comerica’s control, such as fuel prices, energy costs, real estate values or other factors that affect customer income levels, could alter predicted customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices. Such a change in these practices could materially adversely affect Comerica’s ability to anticipate business needs and meet regulatory requirements.Further, as we have seen recently, difficult economic conditions may negatively affect consumer confidence levels. A decrease in consumer confidence levels would likely aggravate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on Comerica, Comerica's customers and others in the financial institutions industry.•Management’s ability to maintain and expand customer relationships may differ from expectations.The financial services industry is very competitive. Comerica not only vies for business opportunities with new customers, but also competes to maintain and expand the relationships it has with its existing customers. While management believes that it can continue to grow many of these relationships, Comerica will continue to experience pressures to maintain these relationships as its competitors attempt to capture its customers. Failure to create new customer relationships and to maintain and expand existing customer relationships to the extent anticipated may adversely impact Comerica’s earnings.•Management’s ability to retain key officers and employees may change.Comerica's future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of its executive officers and key personnel. Comerica's future operating results also depend in significant part upon its ability to attract and retain qualified management, financial, technical, marketing, sales and support personnel.  Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and Comerica cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and it may be increasingly difficult for Comerica to hire personnel over time. Further, Comerica's ability to retain key officers and employees may be impacted by legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. On April 14, 2011, FRB, OCC and several other federal financial regulators approved a joint proposed rulemaking to implement Section 956 of the Financial Reform Act. Section 956 prohibits incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by covered financial institutions and are deemed to be excessive, or that may lead to material losses. Consistent with the Financial Reform Act, the proposed rule does not apply to banks with total consolidated assets of less than $1 billion, and contains heightened standards for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, which includes Comerica. For these larger institutions, the proposed rule requires that at least 50 percent of incentive-based payments be deferred for a minimum of three years for designated executives. Moreover, boards of directors of these larger institutions must identify employees who individually have the ability to expose the institution to substantial risk, and must determine that the incentive compensation for these employees appropriately balances risk and rewards according to enumerated standards.  Accordingly, Comerica may be at a disadvantage to offer competitive compensation as other financial institutions (as referenced above) may not be subject to the same requirements.   Comerica's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of its key employees, or Comerica's inability to attract and retain skilled employees.18Table of Contents•Legal and regulatory proceedings and related matters with respect to the financial services industry, including those directly involving Comerica and its subsidiaries, could adversely affect Comerica or the financial services industry in general.Comerica has been, and may in the future be, subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings. It is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of these matters, and there can be no assurance that Comerica will prevail in any proceeding or litigation. Any such matter could result in substantial cost and diversion of Comerica’s efforts, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on Comerica’s financial condition and operating results. Further, adverse determinations in such matters could result in actions by Comerica’s regulators that could materially adversely affect Comerica’s business, financial condition or results of operations.•Methods of reducing risk exposures might not be effective.Instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of credit, market and liquidity, operational, compliance, business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. As a result, Comerica may not be able to effectively mitigate its risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk, which could have a material adverse impact on Comerica’s business, financial condition or results of operations.•Terrorist activities or other hostilities may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and Comerica.Terrorist attacks or other hostilities may disrupt Comerica’s operations or those of its customers. In addition, these events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. and world economy in general and consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm Comerica’s operations. Any of these events could increase volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets, which could harm Comerica’s stock price and may limit the capital resources available to Comerica and its customers. This could have a material adverse impact on Comerica’s operating results, revenues and costs and may result in increased volatility in the market price of Comerica’s common stock.•Catastrophic events, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires and floods, may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and Comerica.Comerica has significant operations and a significant customer base in California, Texas, Florida and other regions where natural and other disasters may occur. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires and floods. These types of natural catastrophic events at times have disrupted the local economy, Comerica’s business and customers and have posed physical risks to Comerica’s property. In addition, catastrophic events occurring in other regions of the world may have an impact on Comerica's customers and in turn, on Comerica.  A significant catastrophic event could materially adversely affect Comerica’s operating results.•Changes in accounting standards could materially impact Comerica's financial statements. From time to time accounting standards setters change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Comerica’s financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how Comerica records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Comerica could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. •Comerica's accounting policies and processes are critical to the reporting of financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how Comerica records and reports the financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and processes so they comply with U.S. GAAP.  In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in the Company reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. Comerica has established 19Table of Contentsdetailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding management's judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, Comerica cannot guarantee that it will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. See “Critical Accounting Policies” on pages F-43 through F-48 of the Financial Section of this report and Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located on pages F-55 through F-63 of the Financial Section of this report. Item 1B