Item 1A
  
 Risk Factors
    
13

 
Item 1B
  
 Unresolved Staff Comments
    
14

 
Item 2
  
 Properties
    
14

 
Item 3
  
 Legal Proceedings
    
15

 
Item 4
  
 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
    
16




 
PART II
    


 
Item 5
  
 Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
    
17

 
Item 6
  
 Selected Financial Data
    
19

 
Item 7
  
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    
20

 
Item 7A
  
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
    
34

 
Item 8
  
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
    
36

 
Item 9
  
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
    
77

 
Item 9A
  
 Controls and Procedures
    
77

 
Item 9B
  
 Other Information
    
77




 
PART III
    


 
Item 10
  
 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
    
78

 
Item 11
  
 Executive Compensation
    
79

 
Item 12
  
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
    
79

 
Item 13
  
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
    
79

 
Item 14
  
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
    
79




 
PART IV
    


 
Item 15
  
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
    
80

 
Signatures
    
84
 This Annual Report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31, 2007. This Annual Report on
Form 10-K modifies and supersedes documents filed before it. The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) allows us to “incorporate by reference” information that we file with them, which means that we can disclose important
information to you by referring you directly to those documents. Information incorporated by reference is considered to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, information that we file with the SEC in the future will automatically
update and supersede information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to Comcast Corporation as “Comcast;” Comcast and its consolidated subsidiaries as “we,”
“us” and “our;” and Comcast Holdings Corporation as “Comcast Holdings.”  Our registered trademarks include Comcast, CN8
and the Comcast logo. Our trademarks include Fancast and FEARnet. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains other trademarks, service marks and trade names owned by us as well as those owned by others.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 











 

 






Table of Contents

 
Part I    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">

Item 1: Business We are the largest cable operator in the United States and offer a variety of entertainment and
communications products and services. As of December 31, 2007, our cable systems served approximately 24.1 million video subscribers, 13.2 million high-speed Internet subscribers and 4.6 million phone subscribers and passed
approximately 48.5 million homes in 39 states and the District of Columbia. We were incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania in December 2001. Through our predecessors, we have developed, managed and operated cable systems
since 1963.  We classify our operations in two reportable segments: Cable and Programming. Our Cable segment, which generates approximately 95% of
our consolidated revenues, manages and operates our cable systems, including video, high-speed Internet and phone services (“cable services”), as well as our regional sports and news networks. Our Programming segment consists primarily of
our consolidated national programming networks, including E!, The Golf Channel, VERSUS, G4 and Style.  Our other business interests include Comcast
Spectacor and Comcast Interactive Media. Comcast Spectacor owns the Philadelphia Flyers, the Philadelphia 76ers and two large, multipurpose arenas in Philadelphia and manages other facilities for sporting events, concerts and other events. Comcast
Interactive Media develops and operates Comcast’s Internet businesses focused on entertainment, information and communication, including Comcast.net, Fancast, thePlatform and Fandango. Comcast Spectacor, Comcast Interactive Media and
all other consolidated businesses not included in our Cable or Programming segment are included in “Corporate and Other” activities.  <FONT FACE="ARIAL"
SIZE="2">For financial and other information about our segments, refer to Item 8, Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  <FONT
FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="4">Available Information and Web Sites  Our phone number is (215) 665-1700, and our principal executive offices are
located at 1500 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19102-2148. Beginning March 2008, our phone number will be (215) 286-1700 and our executive offices will be located at One Comcast Center, Philadelphia, PA 19103-2838. The public may read and copy
any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
 
“Exchange Act”) are available free of charge on the SEC’s Web site at www.sec.gov and on our Web site at www.comcast.com as soon as reasonably
practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC. The information posted on our Web site is not incorporated into our SEC filings.  General
Developments of Our Businesses  During 2007, we continued to focus on our strategy of growth in subscribers for our products and services. Our Cable
business continued the deployment and marketing of our digital phone service, high-speed Internet service and additional digital cable services, such as video on demand, digital video recorder (“DVR”) and high-definition television
(“HDTV”). We also expanded our ownership and management of regional sports networks and Internet businesses.  The following are the more
significant developments to our businesses in 2007:   


•
 
 consolidated revenue increased 23.7% to approximately $30.9 billion and consolidated operating income increased 20.8% to approximately $5.6 billion, both driven by results
in our Cable segment   


•
 
 Cable segment revenue increased 21.9% to approximately $29.3 billion and operating income before depreciation and amortization increased 23.3% to approximately $11.9
billion, both driven by acquisitions, as well as growth in our digital cable, high-speed Internet and digital phone services; during 2007, excluding subscribers obtained from acquisitions, we added approximately 2.5 million digital cable
subscribers, approximately 1.7 million high-speed Internet subscribers and approximately 2.5 million digital phone subscribers while the number of basic video subscribers decreased 180,000  <P
STYLE="font-size:12px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


•
 
 an increase in Cable segment capital expenditures of 41.2% to approximately $6.0 billion, primarily as a result of (i) the installation of advanced set-top boxes,
modems and other equipment associated with the increase in subscribers to our digital video, high-speed Internet and digital phone services; (ii) network improvements to handle the growth in subscribers and to provide service improvements and
enhancements; (iii) capital expenditures related to commercial services to small and medium-sized businesses; and (iv) integration of our newly acquired cable systems  <P
STYLE="font-size:12px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


•
 
 acquisitions of (i) the cable system serving Houston, Texas (approximately 700,000 video subscribers) resulting from the dissolution of Texas and Kansas City Cable
Partners (the “Houston transaction”), in January 2007 and (ii) the cable system of Patriot Media serving approximately 81,000 video subscribers in central New Jersey, in August 2007 <br
clear="All">  











 
1
 
Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K





Table of Contents

  


•
 
 other acquisitions of (i) Fandango, an online entertainment site and movie-ticket service, in April 2007 and (ii) Rainbow Media Holdings’ 60% interest in
Bay Area SportsNet and its 50% interest in Sports Channel New England, expanding our regional sports networks, in June 2007 <DIV
STYLE="position:relative;float:right; width:48%;padding-right:9px;padding-bottom:4px;overflow:hidden">


•
 
 repurchase of approximately 133 million shares of our Class A common stock and Class A Special common stock under our Board-authorized share repurchase
program for approximately $3.1 billion; in October 2007 our Board of Directors authorized a $7 billion addition to the existing share repurchase program; as of December 31, 2007 we had approximately $6.9 billion of availability remaining under the
share repurchase authorization which we intend to utilize by the end of 2009, subject to market conditions    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">We operate our businesses in an increasingly competitive, highly regulated and technologically complex environment. A substantial portion of our revenues comes from
residential subscribers whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. Intensifying competition and a weakening economy affected our net subscriber additions during the second half of 2007.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:30px;margin-bottom:0px">Description of Our Businesses  Cable Segment  <P
STYLE="line-height:4px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:2px;border-bottom:0.5pt solid #52a2dd">  The table below summarizes certain information for our
cable operations as of December 31:   




















(in millions)
    
2007
 
  
2006 
 
  
2005
 
  
2004
 
  
2003
 

 Video
    


  


  


  


  



 Homes Passed(a) 
    
48.5
 
  
45.7
 
  
38.6
 
  
37.8
 
  
36.9
 

 Subscribers(b) 
    
24.1
 
  
23.4
 
  
20.3
 
  
20.5
 
  
20.4
 

 Penetration
    
49.6
%
  
51.3
%
  
52.7
%
  
54.1
%
  
55.1
%

 Digital Cable
    


  


  


  


  



 Subscribers(c) 
    
15.2
 
  
12.1
 
  
9.1
 
  
8.1
 
  
7.1
 

 Penetration
    
63.1
%
  
51.9
%
  
44.8
%
  
39.4
%
  
35.1
%

 High-speed Internet
    


  


  


  


  



 Available Homes(d)
    
48.1
 
  
45.2
 
  
38.2
 
  
37.1
 
  
32.2
 

 Subscribers
    
13.2
 
  
11.0
 
  
8.1
 
  
6.6
 
  
5.0
 

 Penetration
    
27.5
%
  
24.4
%
  
21.1
%
  
17.8
%
  
15.4
%

 Phone 
    


  


  


  


  



 Available Homes(d) 
    
42.2
 
  
31.5
 
  
19.6
 
  
8.9
 
  
7.9
 

 Subscribers
    
4.6
 
  
2.4
 
  
1.2
 
  
1.1
 
  
1.1
 

 Penetration
    
10.8
%
  
7.6
%
  
6.0
%
  
12.2
%
  
14.2
%
 Basis of Presentation: Information related to cable system acquisitions is included from the date acquired.
Information related to cable systems sold or exchanged is excluded for all periods presented. All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to rounding.  <P
STYLE="font-size:3px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


(a)
 
 Homes are considered passed (“homes passed”) if we can connect them to our distribution system without further extending the transmission lines. As described in
Note (b) below, in the case of certain multiple dwelling units (“MDUs”), such as apartment buildings and condominium complexes, homes passed are counted on an adjusted basis. Homes passed is an estimate based on the best available
information.   


(b)
 
 Generally, a dwelling or commercial unit with one or more television sets connected to a system counts as one video subscriber. In the case of some MDUs, we count homes
passed and video subscribers on a Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) equivalent basis by dividing total revenue received from a contract with an MDU by the standard residential rate where the MDU is located.
  


(c)
 
 A dwelling with one or more digital set-top boxes counts as one digital cable subscriber. On average, as of December 31, 2007, each digital cable subscriber had 1.6
digital set-top boxes.   


(d)
 
 Homes are considered available (“available homes”) if we can connect them to our distribution system without further upgrading the transmission lines and if we
offer the service in that area. Available homes for phone include digital and circuit-switched homes.   










Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K
 
2
 






Table of Contents

   <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">Cable Services  We offer a variety of services over our cable systems,
including video, high-speed Internet and phone. We market our services individually and as bundled packages of services and features.  We are
focusing our technology initiatives on extending the reach and capacity of our networks, improving network efficiency, increasing the capacity and improving the functionality of advanced set-top boxes, developing and integrating cross-service
features and functionality, and developing interactive services.  Substantially all of our subscribers are residential customers. We have
traditionally offered our video services to restaurants and hotels, and we are beginning to offer all of our cable services to small and medium-sized businesses.  <FONT FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2"
COLOR="#52a2dd">Video Services  We offer a full range of video services. We tailor our channel offerings for each system serving a particular
geographic area according to applicable local and federal regulatory requirements, programming preferences and demographics. Subscribers typically pay us on a monthly basis and generally may discontinue services at any time. Monthly subscription
rates and related charges vary according to the type of service selected and the type of equipment the subscriber uses. Our video service offerings include the following: <FONT
FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2">Basic Cable. Our basic cable services consist of a limited basic service with access to between 10 and 20 channels of programming and an
expanded basic service with access to between 60 and 80 channels of programming. These services generally consist of programming provided by national and local broadcast networks, national and regional cable networks, and governmental and public
access programming. Digital Cable. Our digital cable services
provide subscribers with access to over 250 channels, depending on the level of service selected. We also offer some specialty tiers with sports, family or ethnic themes. Our digital cable services also provide access to multiple music channels, an
interactive program guide and a video on demand library.  Video on Demand.<FONT
FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2"> Our video on demand service allows our digital starter cable and full digital cable subscribers the opportunity to choose from a library of more than 10,000 programs over the course of a month; start the programs at whatever
time is convenient; and pause, rewind and fast-forward the programs. A substantial portion of our video on demand content is available to our digital cable subscribers at no additional charge. We are continuing to expand the number of
video on demand choices, including HDTV programming.   <DIV
STYLE="position:relative;float:right; width:48%;padding-right:9px;padding-bottom:4px;overflow:hidden"> <FONT FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2"
COLOR="#52a2dd">Subscription Video on Demand. Our subscription video on demand service provides subscribers with on demand access to packages of programming that are either associated with a particular premium
content provider to which they already subscribe, such as HBO On Demand, or are otherwise made available on a subscription basis.  <FONT
FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2" COLOR="#52a2dd">High-Definition Television. Our HDTV service provides our digital cable subscribers with improved, high-resolution picture quality, improved audio quality and a wide-screen
format. Our HDTV service offers our digital cable subscribers a broad selection of high-definition programming with access to up to 30 or more high-definition channels in certain areas, including most major broadcast networks, leading national cable
networks, premium channels and regional sports networks. In addition, our video on demand service provides over 250 HDTV programming choices. We are continuing to expand our HDTV programming choices.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">Digital Video Recorder. Our DVR service lets digital cable subscribers
select, record and store programs and play them at whatever time is convenient. Our DVR service also provides the ability to pause and rewind “live” television.  <P STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px"
ALIGN="justify">Premium Channel Programming. Our premium channel programming services, which include cable networks such as HBO,
Showtime, Starz and Cinemax, generally offer, without commercial interruption, feature motion pictures, live and taped sporting events, concerts and other special features. These services also provide multiple offerings of the premium channel
in which the programming varies as to the time of broadcast and theme of content. Pay-Per-View
Programming. Our pay-per-view service allows our cable subscribers to order, for a separate fee, individual movies and special-event programs, such as professional boxing, professional wrestling and concerts,
on an unedited, commercial-free basis. High-Speed Internet Services  <FONT
FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2">We offer high-speed Internet services with Internet access at downstream speeds of up to 16 Mbps, depending on the level of service selected. These services also include our interactive portal, Comcast.net, which
provides multiple e-mail addresses and online storage, as well as a variety of proprietary content and value-added features and enhancements that are designed to take advantage of the speed of the Internet services we provide. We are
supporting industry-wide development of specifications for technology that will enable us to offer significantly faster Internet speeds to our subscribers and we are working with our vendors to commercialize and deploy this technology. We plan
to begin the deployment of this technology in 2008.   











 
3
 
Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K





Table of Contents

   <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">
Phone Services  We offer an interconnected Voice
over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) digital phone service that provides unlimited local and domestic long-distance calling, including features such as voice mail, caller ID and call waiting. In some areas, we provide a circuit-switched local
phone service, which also provides access to a full array of calling features and third-party long-distance services. We plan to phase out our circuit-switched phone service in 2008.  <FONT
FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2" COLOR="#52a2dd">Advertising  As part of our programming license agreements with programming networks, we often receive an
allocation of scheduled advertising time that we may sell to local, regional and national advertisers. We also coordinate the advertising sales efforts of other cable operators in some markets, and in other markets we have formed and operate
advertising interconnects, which establish a physical, direct link between multiple cable systems and provide for the sale of regional and national advertising across larger geographic areas than could be provided by a single cable operator. We are
also in the process of developing technology for interactive advertising.  Regional Sports and News Networks  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">Our regional sports and news networks include Comcast SportsNet (Philadelphia), Comcast SportsNet Mid-Atlantic (Baltimore/Washington), Cable Sports Southeast,
CN8—The Comcast Network, Comcast SportsNet Chicago, MountainWest Sports Network, Comcast SportsNet West (Sacramento), Comcast SportsNet New England (Boston), Comcast SportsNet Northwest and Bay Area SportsNet (San Francisco). These
networks earn revenue through the sale of advertising time and from monthly per subscriber license fees paid by multichannel video programming distributors (“MVPDs”).  <FONT
FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2" COLOR="#52a2dd">Other Revenue Sources  We also generate revenues from installation services, commissions from third-party
electronic retailing and from other services, such as providing businesses with data connectivity and networked applications.  Sources of Supply
 To offer our video services, we license from programming networks the substantial majority of the programming we distribute for linear channels and
their associated video on demand offerings, and we generally pay a monthly fee for such programming on a per video subscriber, per channel basis. We attempt to secure long-term licenses with volume discounts and/or marketing support and incentives
for the programming. We also license individual programs or packages of programs from programming suppliers for our video on demand service, generally under shorter-term agreements.  <P STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px"
ALIGN="justify">Our video programming expenses increase due to growth in the number of our video subscribers, increases in the number of channels <DIV
STYLE="position:relative;float:right; width:48%;padding-right:9px;padding-bottom:4px;overflow:hidden"> 
and programs we provide, and increases in license fees. The MVPD industry has continued to experience an increase in the cost of programming, particularly sports
programming. We expect our programming expenses to continue to be our largest single expense item and to increase in the future.  We license, from a
variety of suppliers under multiyear contracts in which we generally pay a monthly fee on a per subscriber or fixed-fee basis, software products (such as e-mail) and content (such as news feeds) that we integrate into our high-speed
Internet portal.  We license, from a variety of suppliers under multiyear contracts, software products (such as voice mail) that we integrate
into our digital phone service. The fees we pay are based on the consumption of the related services.  Customer and Technical Service  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">We service our subscribers through local, regional and national call and technical centers. Generally, our call centers provide 24/7 call-answering capability,
telemarketing and other services. Our technical services group performs various tasks, including installations, transmission and distribution plant maintenance, plant upgrades, and activities related to customer service.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Technology  Our cable systems employ a network architecture of
hybrid fiber coax that we believe is sufficiently flexible to support our current and future requirements. This network allows the two-way delivery of broadband transmissions, which is essential to providing advanced video services, such as video on
demand and DVR, and high-speed Internet and digital phone services. In order to continue to take advantage of growing video offerings, as well as future cross-platform features that will integrate all of our services, we will need to be more
efficient in our use of bandwidth available in our network. We believe this can be achieved by delivering our current video services using less bandwidth. To that end, we are moving certain of our video programming from the analog tier to the
digital tier, which allows us to deliver the same programming using less bandwidth, and we are using advanced encoding to deliver HDTV content in a more bandwidth efficient manner without a loss in picture quality. In certain areas, we have begun
the deployment of a technology called switched digital video, which enables us to stream a channel to a subscriber’s home only when they request it. All of these measures will free up bandwidth capacity that can be made available for other
uses.  In support of our bundled services strategy, we are developing features that operate across two or more of our services. For example, we are
developing an online application that integrates key features of our video, high-speed Internet and digital phone services.   










Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K
 
4
 






Table of Contents

   <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">Historically, we have relied on third-party hardware and software vendors for many of the technologies needed for the operation of our businesses, for the
addition of new features to existing services, and for the development and commercialization of new service offerings. In recent years, we have begun developing strategically important software and technologies internally and developing
technology specifications that integrate third-party software. We are also expanding the use of open technology solutions that allow multiple vendors to more easily integrate with our technology. We have arranged for long-term access rights to
national fiber-optic-based networks that we actively manage to interconnect our local and regional distribution systems and to facilitate the efficient delivery of our services. We expect these efforts to continue and to expand in the future. Our
internal development efforts require greater initial expenditures than would be required if we continued to purchase or license products and services from third parties.  <FONT
FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2">We have purchased wireless spectrum, both directly and through a consortium, and we are exploring strategies that would use this spectrum to enhance our existing service offerings and to offer new services.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Sales and Marketing  We offer our products and services directly
to customers through our call centers, door-to-door selling, direct mail advertising, television advertising, local media advertising, telemarketing and retail outlets. We also market our video, high-speed Internet and digital phone services
individually and as bundled services.  Competition  <FONT FACE="ARIAL"
SIZE="2">We operate our businesses in an intensely competitive environment. We compete with a number of different companies that offer a broad range of services through increasingly diverse means. Competition for the cable services we offer consists
primarily of direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) operators and telephone companies. In 2007, many of these competitors expanded their service areas, added features and adopted aggressive pricing and packaging for services and features that
are comparable to the services and features we offer. These competitive factors have impacted and are likely to continue to impact our results of operations. In addition, we operate in a technologically complex environment where it is likely new
technologies will further increase the number of competitors we face for our video, high-speed Internet and phone services, and for our advertising business. We expect advances in communications technology to continue in the future and we are
unable to predict what effects these developments will have on our businesses and operations.   <DIV
STYLE="position:relative;float:right; width:48%;padding-right:9px;padding-bottom:4px;overflow:hidden"> Video Services <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">We compete with a number of different sources that provide news, information and entertainment programming to consumers, including:  <P
STYLE="font-size:12px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


•
 
 DBS providers that transmit satellite signals containing video programming, data and other information to receiving dishes located on the subscriber’s premises
  


•
 
 incumbent local exchange carriers (“ILECs”) that have built and are continuing to build wireline fiber-optic-based networks, in some cases using Internet
Protocol (“IP”) technology, to provide video services in substantial portions of their service areas and in an increasing number of our service areas, in addition to marketing DBS service in certain areas  <P
STYLE="font-size:12px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


•
 
 other wireline communications providers that build and operate wireline communications systems in the same communities that we serve, including those operating as
franchised cable operators or under an alternative regulatory scheme known as open video systems   


•
 
 online services that offer Internet video streaming, downloading and distribution of movies, television shows and other video programming  <P
STYLE="font-size:12px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


•
 
 satellite master antenna television systems, known as SMATVs, that generally serve condominiums, apartment and office complexes, and residential developments
  


•
 
 local television broadcast stations that provide free over-the-air programming that can be received using an antenna  <P
STYLE="font-size:12px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


•
 
 digital subscription services transmitted over local television broadcast stations that can be received by a special set-top box  <P
STYLE="font-size:12px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


•
 
 wireless and other emerging mobile technologies that provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming  <P
STYLE="font-size:12px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


•
 
 video stores and home video products   


•
 
 movie theaters   


•
 
 newspapers, magazines and books   


•
 
 live concerts and sporting events  In recent years,
Congress has enacted legislation and the FCC has adopted regulatory policies intended to provide a favorable operating environment for existing competitors and for potential new competitors to our cable systems. The FCC adopted rules favoring new
investment by ILECs in networks capable of distributing video 
  











 
5
 
Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K





Table of Contents

   <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">
programming and rules allocating and auctioning spectrum for new wireless services that may compete with our video service offerings. Furthermore, Congress and various
state governments are considering measures that would reduce or eliminate local franchising requirements for new entrants into the multichannel video marketplace, including ILECs. Certain of these franchising entry measures have already been adopted
by the FCC and in many states in which we operate. We could be significantly disadvantaged if proposals to change franchising rules for our competitors, but not for cable operators, are approved and implemented (see “
Legislation and Regulation” below). Direct Broadcast Satellite
Systems. According to recent government and industry reports, conventional, medium-power and high-power satellites provide video programming to over 30 million subscribers in the United States. DBS providers
with high-power satellites typically offer more than 300 channels of programming, including programming services substantially similar to those our cable systems provide. Two companies, DIRECTV and EchoStar, provide service to substantially all of
these DBS subscribers.  High-power satellite service can be received throughout the continental United States through small rooftop or side-mounted
outdoor antennas. Satellite systems use video compression technology to increase channel capacity and digital technology to improve the quality and quantity of the signals transmitted to their subscribers. Our digital cable service is competitive
with the programming, channel capacity and quality of signals currently delivered to subscribers by DBS providers.  Federal legislation establishes,
among other things, a compulsory copyright license that permits satellite systems to retransmit local broadcast television signals to subscribers who reside in the local television station’s market. These companies are currently transmitting
local broadcast signals in most markets that we serve. Additionally, federal law generally provides satellite systems with access to cable-affiliated video programming services delivered by satellite. These DBS providers are also attempting to
expand their service offerings to include, among other things, high-speed Internet services. They have also entered into marketing arrangements with ILECs in which the DBS providers’ video services are promoted and sold together with an
ILEC’s high-speed Internet and phone services. Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers.<FONT
FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2"> ILECs, in particular AT&T and Verizon, have built and are continuing to build fiber-optic-based networks to provide video services in substantial portions of their service areas. These ILECs have begun to offer video
services in an increasing number of our service areas and, in certain areas, video services are being offered in addition to joint marketing arrangements ILECs have entered into with DBS providers. ILECs have taken various positions on the question
of whether they need  
a local cable television franchise to provide video services. Some, like Verizon, have applied for local cable franchises while others, like AT&T, claim that they
can provide their video services without a local cable franchise. Notwithstanding their positions, both AT&T and Verizon have filed for video service franchise certificates under recent state franchising legislation (see “Legislation and
Regulation” below). Other Wireline Providers. We operate
our cable systems under nonexclusive franchises that are issued by a local community governing body, such as a city council or county board of supervisors or, in some cases, by a state regulatory agency. Federal law prohibits
franchising authorities from unreasonably denying requests for additional franchises, and it permits franchising authorities to operate cable systems. In addition to ILECs, various companies, including those that traditionally have not provided
cable services and have substantial financial resources (such as public utilities, including those that own some of the poles to which our cables are attached), have obtained cable franchises and provide competing communications services. These
and other wireline communications systems offer video and other communications services in various areas where we hold franchises. We anticipate that facilities-based competitors will emerge in other franchise areas that we serve. <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">Satellite Master Antenna Television Systems. Our cable systems also compete
for subscribers with SMATV systems. SMATV system operators typically are not subject to regulation in the same manner as local, franchised cable system operators. SMATV systems offer subscribers both improved reception of local television stations
and much of the programming offered by our cable systems. In addition, some SMATV operators offer packages of video, internet and phone services to residential and commercial developments.  <P STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px"
ALIGN="justify">Broadcast Subscription Services. Local television broadcasters in a few of our service areas sell digital subscription
services. These services typically include a limited number of video programming services for a monthly fee.  High-Speed Internet Services 
 We compete with a number of other companies, many of which have substantial resources, including: <P
STYLE="font-size:12px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


•
 
 ILECs and other telephone companies  


•
 
 Internet service providers (“ISPs”), such as AOL, Earthlink and Microsoft <P
STYLE="font-size:12px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


•
 
 wireless phone companies and other providers of wireless Internet service  <P
STYLE="font-size:12px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 


•
 
 power companies  










Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K
 
6
 






Table of Contents

   <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">
The deployment of digital subscriber line (“DSL”) technology allows Internet access to be provided to subscribers over telephone lines at data transmission
speeds substantially greater than those of dial-up modems. ILECs and other companies offer DSL service, and several of them have increased transmission speeds, lowered prices or created bundled service packages. In addition, some ILECs, such as
AT&T and Verizon, have built and are continuing to build fiber-optic-based networks that allow them to provide data transmission speeds that exceed those that can be provided with DSL technology and are now offering these higher speed services
in many of our markets. The FCC has reduced the obligations of ILECs to offer their broadband facilities on a wholesale or retail basis to competitors, and it has freed their DSL services of common carrier regulation.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">Various wireless phone companies are offering wireless high-speed Internet services. In addition, in a growing number of commercial areas, such as retail malls,
restaurants and airports, wireless Wi-Fi and WiMAX Internet service is available. Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi and WiMAX Internet access networks.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">A number of cable operators have reached agreements to provide unaffiliated ISPs access to their cable systems in the absence of regulatory requirements. We
reached access agreements with several national and regional third-party ISPs, although to date these ISPs have made limited use of their rights. We cannot provide any assurance, however, that regulatory authorities will not impose so-called
“open access” or similar requirements on us as part of an industry-wide requirement. Additionally, Congress and the FCC are considering creating certain rights for Internet content providers and for users of high-speed Internet
services by  
imposing “net neutrality” requirements on service providers. These requirements could adversely affect our high-speed Internet business (see “
Legislation and Regulation” below).  We expect competition for high-speed Internet service subscribers to remain
intense, with companies competing on service availability, price, product features, customer service, transmission speeds and bundled services.  <FONT FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2"
COLOR="#52a2dd">Phone Services  Our digital phone service and our circuit-switched local phone service compete against ILECs, wireless phone
service providers, competitive local exchange carriers (“CLECs”) and other VoIP service providers. The ILECs have substantial capital and other resources, longstanding customer relationships, and extensive existing facilities and network
rights-of-way. A few CLECs also have existing local networks and significant financial resources.  We anticipate that by the end of 2008,
approximately 91% of our homes passed will have access to our digital phone service. We expect some of our circuit-switched phone subscribers to migrate to our digital phone service as we phase out our circuit-switched phone service in 2008. The
competitive nature of the phone business may negatively affect demand for and pricing of our phone services.  Advertising  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">We compete against a wide variety of media for the sale of advertising, including local television broadcast stations, national television broadcast networks,
national and regional cable television networks, local radio broadcast stations, local and regional newspapers, magazines and Internet sites.    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">Programming Segment    <P
STYLE="margin-top:8px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">The table below presents a summary of our most significant consolidated national programming networks as of December 31, 2007:  <P
STYLE="font-size:12px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 









Programming Network
 
 ApproximateU.S. Subscribers <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:1px" ALIGN="right">(in millions)
    
Description

 E!
 
82
    
 Pop culture and entertainment-related programming

 The Golf Channel
 
67
    
 Golf and golf-related programming

 VERSUS
 
64
    
 Sports and leisure programming

 G4
 
55
    
Gamer lifestyle programming

 Style
 
48
    
Lifestyle-related programming
   Revenue for our programming networks is
primarily generated from the sale of advertising and from monthly per subscriber license fees paid by MVPDs that have typically entered into multiyear contracts to distribute our programming networks. To obtain long-term contracts with distributors,
we may make cash payments, provide an initial period in which license fee payments are waived or do both. Our programming networks assist distributors with ongoing marketing and promotional activities to retain existing subscribers and acquire new
subscribers. Although we believe prospects of continued carriage and marketing of our programming networks by larger distributors are generally good, the loss of one or more of such distributors could have a material adverse effect on our
programming networks.  











 
7
 
Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K





Table of Contents

   <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">
Sources of Supply  Our programming networks often
produce their own television programs and broadcasts of live events. This often requires us to acquire the rights to the content that is used in such productions (such as rights to screenplays or sporting events). In other cases, our programming
networks license the cable telecast rights to television programs produced by third parties. Competition  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">Our programming networks compete with other television programming services for distribution and programming. In addition, our programming networks compete for
audience share with all other forms of programming provided to viewers, including broadcast networks; local broadcast stations; pay and other cable networks; home video, pay-per-view and video on demand services; and Internet sites. Finally, our
programming networks compete for advertising revenue with other national and local media, including other television networks, television stations, radio stations, newspapers, Internet sites and direct mail.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:15px;margin-bottom:0px">Other Businesses    <P
STYLE="margin-top:7px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">Our other business interests include Comcast Spectacor and Comcast Interactive Media. Comcast Spectacor owns the Philadelphia Flyers, the Philadelphia 76ers and two
large, multipurpose arenas in Philadelphia, and manages other facilities for sporting events, concerts and other events. Comcast Interactive Media develops and operates Comcast’s Internet businesses focused on entertainment,
information and communication, including Comcast.net, Fancast, thePlatform and Fandango.  We also own noncontrolling interests in MGM, iN DEMAND, TV
One, PBS KIDS Sprout, FEARnet, New England Cable News, Pittsburgh Cable News Channel, Music Choice and Sterling Entertainment (SportsNet New York).  
Legislation and Regulation  Our Cable segment is subject to regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities
under federal and state laws and regulations as well as agreements we enter into with franchising authorities. The Communications Act and FCC regulations and policies affect significant aspects of our Cable segment, including cable system
ownership, video subscriber rates, carriage of broadcast television stations, the way we sell our programming packages to subscribers, access to cable system channels by franchising authorities and other parties, the use of utility poles and
conduits, and the offering of our high-speed Internet and phone services. Our Programming segment is subject to more limited governmental regulation.  <FONT FACE="ARIAL"
SIZE="2">Federal regulation and regulatory scrutiny of our Cable and Programming segments has been increasing under the current FCC, <DIV
STYLE="position:relative;float:right; width:48%;padding-right:9px;padding-bottom:4px;overflow:hidden"> 
even as the cable industry is subject to increasing competition from DBS providers, telephone companies and others for video, high-speed Internet and phone services.
Meanwhile, the FCC has provided regulatory relief and other regulatory advantages to our competitors. Regulatory policies present significant adverse risks to our businesses.  <P STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px"
ALIGN="justify">The most significant regulatory developments during 2007 were the adoption of a cable ownership limit, the implementation of FCC regulations constraining our provision of set-top boxes, the expansion of
must-carry and leased access obligations, the extension of program access obligations, the abrogation of exclusivity provisions in our access contracts with MDUs and other private real estate developments, the enactment of legislation by several
states to provide statewide or simplified local franchising, and the enactment or application by several states of new or additional taxes. In addition, there are numerous legislative and regulatory proposals pending that could adversely affect our
Cable business, including proposed rules on two-way plug-and-play equipment, expanded obligations for program access and program carriage, further must-carry requirements and increased pole attachment rates.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:24px;margin-bottom:0px">Video Services    <P
STYLE="margin-top:8px;margin-bottom:0px">Ownership Limits  The FCC has adopted an order establishing a 30% limit on
the percentage of multichannel video subscribers that any single cable provider can serve nationwide. Because we currently serve approximately 26% of multichannel video subscribers nationwide, the 30% ownership limit constrains our ability to take
advantage of future growth opportunities. A federal appellate court struck down a similar 30% limit in a 2001 decision, and we expect to appeal the new limit in court. The FCC is also assessing whether it should reinstate a limit on the number of
affiliated programming networks a cable operator may carry on its cable systems. The FCC’s previous limit of 40% of the first 75 channels was also struck down by the federal appellate court in the 2001 decision. The percentage of affiliated
programming networks we currently carry is well below the previous 40% limit. It is uncertain when the FCC will rule on this issue or how any regulation it adopts might affect our Cable segment. <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px">Pricing and Packaging  The Communications Act and FCC regulations and
policies limit the prices that cable operators may charge for limited basic service, equipment and installation, as well as the manner in which cable operators may package premium or pay-per-view services with other tiers of service. These rules do
not apply to cable systems that the FCC determines are subject to effective competition, but to date the FCC has made this determination for only a few of our cable systems. We currently have pending before the FCC many petitions for
determination of effective competition. From time to time, Congress and the FCC consider imposing new 
  










Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K
 
8
 






Table of Contents

   <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">
pricing or packaging regulations on the cable industry, including proposals that would require cable operators to offer programming services on an a la carte or
themed-tier basis instead of, or in addition to, our current packaged offerings. As discussed under “
Legal Proceedings” in Item 3, we are currently involved in litigation that could force us to offer programming services on an a la carte basis. Additionally, uniform pricing requirements under the Communications
Act may affect our ability to respond to increased competition through offers, promotions or other discounts that aim to retain existing subscribers or regain those we have lost. <FONT
FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2">Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent  Cable operators are currently required to carry, without compensation, the programming
transmitted by most local commercial and noncommercial television stations. Alternatively, local television stations may insist that a cable operator negotiate for retransmission consent, which may enable popular stations to demand cash payments or
other significant concessions (such as the carriage of, and payment for, other programming networks affiliated with the broadcaster) as a condition of transmitting the TV broadcast signals that video subscribers expect to receive. As part of
the transition from analog to digital broadcast transmission, Congress and the FCC gave each local broadcast station a digital channel, capable of carrying multiple programming streams, in addition to its current analog channel. After the
broadcasters’ transition to digital on February 17, 2009, cable operators will have to carry the primary digital programming stream of local broadcast stations and, under recently adopted rules, will also have to carry an analog
version of the primary digital programming stream through at least February 17, 2012. These new rules have been challenged in federal court. The FCC is also considering proposals to require cable operators to carry, after the 2009 transition date,
some or all of the multiple programming streams transmitted in the broadcaster’s digital signal. Such expanded must-carry obligations would further constrain our ability to allocate cable bandwidth to more high-definition channels, faster
Internet speeds and other services. In addition, the FCC is considering proposals that would require cable operators to carry certain low power broadcast television stations that, under current regulations, generally lack must-carry rights.
 Program Access/License Agreements  The Communications Act
and the FCC’s program access rules generally prevent video programmers affiliated with cable operators from favoring cable operators over competing MVPDs, such as DBS providers, and limit the ability of such affiliated programmers to offer
exclusive programming arrangements to cable operators. The FCC has extended the exclusivity restrictions through October 2012. We have challenged this FCC action in federal court. In addition, the Communications Act and the FCC’s program
carriage rules prohibit cable operators and other MVPDs from requiring a financial interest in, or exclusive distribution rights for, any video programming network as a condition of carriage, or from unreasonably restraining the ability of an
unaffiliated program-  
ming network to compete fairly by discriminating against the network on the basis of its nonaffiliation in the selection, terms or conditions for carriage. The FCC is
considering proposals to expand its program access and program carriage regulations that, if adopted, could have an adverse effect on our businesses. In addition, under the FCC’s July 2006 order approving our acquisition of Adelphia cable
systems and related Time Warner transactions, until July 2012 our regional sports networks are generally covered by the program access rules regardless of the means of delivery, and MVPDs may invoke commercial arbitration against such regional
sports networks as an alternative to filing a program access complaint at the FCC. The Adelphia order also authorized unaffiliated regional sports networks to submit carriage claims against us to commercial arbitration, but the FCC subsequently
suspended that condition in light of its rulemaking to consider industry-wide modifications to the program carriage rules.  Leased Access  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">The Communications Act requires a cable system to make available up to 15% of its channel capacity for commercial leased access by third parties to provide
programming that may compete with services offered directly by the cable operator. To date, we have not been required to devote significant channel capacity to leased access. However, the FCC recently adopted rules that dramatically reduce the rates
we can charge for leased access channels. Although the lower rates initially will not apply to home shopping or infomercial programmers, the FCC has issued a further notice to determine if such programming should also have the benefit of the lower
rates. These new FCC rules could adversely affect our business by significantly increasing the number of cable system channels occupied by leased access users and by significantly increasing the administrative burdens and costs associated with
complying with such rules.  Cable Equipment  The FCC has
adopted regulations aimed at promoting the retail sale of set-top boxes and other equipment that can be used to receive digital video services. Effective July 2007, cable operators were prohibited from acquiring for deployment set-top boxes that
perform both channel navigation and security functions. Set-top boxes purchased after that date must rely on a separate security device known as a CableCARD, which adds to the cost of set-top boxes. We sought a waiver from this regulation for
certain low-cost, limited-capability set-top boxes. The FCC denied the waiver request and we have appealed that decision in court. Denial of the waiver request impedes our ability to transition analog customers to digital and reclaim analog spectrum
for new HDTV channels and other innovative services. In addition, the FCC has adopted rules to implement an agreement between the cable and consumer electronics industries aimed at promoting the manufacture of plug-and-play TV sets that can connect
directly to a cable network and receive one-way analog and digital video services without the need for a set-top box. We believe that we are substantially in compliance with these one-way plug-and-play requirements. The 
  











 
9
 
Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K





Table of Contents

   <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">
FCC is also considering proposals to establish regulations for plug-and-play retail devices that can access two-way cable ser- vices. Some of the proposals, if
adopted, would impose substantial costs on us and impair our ability to innovate.  MDUs and Inside Wiring  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">The FCC adopted an order prohibiting the enforcement of exclusive video service access agreements between cable operators and MDUs and other private real estate
developments. The order also prohibits the execution of new exclusive access agreements. The order has been appealed by the National Cable & Telecommunications Association (“NCTA”), our trade organization. The FCC is also
considering proposals to extend these prohibitions to non-cable MVPDs and to expand the scope of the rules to prohibit exclusive marketing and bulk billing agreements. Because we have a significant number of exclusive access agreements, the
FCC’s order to abrogate the exclusivity provisions of those agreements could negatively affect our business, as would adoption of new limits on exclusive marketing and bulk billing. The FCC has also adopted rules facilitating competitors’
access to the cable wiring inside such MDUs. This order, which has also been appealed by the NCTA, could also have an adverse impact on our business as it allows our competitors to use wiring we have deployed to reach potential customers more
quickly and inexpensively.  Pole Attachments  The
Communications Act permits the FCC to regulate the rate that pole-owning utility companies (with the exception of municipal utilities and rural cooperatives) charge cable systems for attachments to their poles. States are permitted to preempt FCC
jurisdiction and regulate the terms of attachments themselves, and many states in which we operate have done so. Most of these states have generally followed the FCC’s pole rate standards. The FCC or a state could increase pole attachment rates
paid by cable operators. Additionally, higher pole attachment rates apply to pole attachments that are subject to the FCC’s telecommunications services pole rates. The applicability of and method for calculating those rates for cable
systems over which phone services are transmitted remain unclear, and there is a risk that we could face materially higher pole attachment costs. In November 2007, the FCC initiated a proceeding to consider whether to modify its rules governing
prices for pole attachments. Among other issues, the FCC is considering establishing a new unified pole attachment rate that would apply to cable system attachments where the cable operator provides high-speed Internet services and, perhaps, phone
services as well. The proposed rate would be higher than the current rate paid by cable service providers but lower than the rate that applies to attachments used to provide telecommunications services. If adopted, this proposal could materially
increase our costs by increasing our existing payments for pole attachments.   <DIV
STYLE="position:relative;float:right; width:48%;padding-right:9px;padding-bottom:4px;overflow:hidden"> 
Franchising  Cable operators generally operate their cable systems under nonexclusive franchises granted by local or
state franchising authorities. While the terms and conditions of franchises vary materially from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, franchises typically last for a fixed term; obligate the franchisee to pay franchise fees and meet service quality,
customer service and other requirements; and are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material provisions. The Communications Act permits franchising authorities to establish reasonable requirements for public, educational and
governmental access programming, and many of our franchises require substantial channel capacity and financial support for this programming. The Communications Act also contains provisions governing the franchising process, including, among other
things, renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent franchisees against arbitrary denials of renewal. We believe that our franchise renewal prospects generally are favorable.  <P STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px"
ALIGN="justify">There has been considerable activity at both the federal and state levels addressing franchise requirements imposed on new entrants. This activity is primarily directed at facilitating ILEC entry into
cable service. In December 2006, the FCC adopted new rules designed to ease the franchising process and reduce franchising burdens for new entrants by, among other things, limiting the range of financial, construction and other commitments that
franchising authorities can request of new entrants, requiring franchising authorities to act on franchise applications by new entrants within 90 days, and preempting certain local “level playing field” franchising requirements. These
rules are the subject of an appeal filed by franchising authorities and NCTA in federal court. The FCC has adopted more modest franchising relief for existing cable operators. We could be materially disadvantaged if the rules continue to
set a different, less burdensome standard for some of our competitors than for ourselves. From time to time, Congress has also considered proposals to eliminate or streamline local franchising requirements for ILECs and other new entrants. We cannot
predict whether such legislation will be enacted or what effect it would have.  In addition, many of the states in which we operate have enacted
legislation to provide statewide franchising or to simplify local franchising requirements for new entrants, thus relieving new entrants of many of the local franchising burdens faced by incumbent operators. Some of these statutes also allow new
entrants to operate on more favorable terms than our current operations, for instance by not requiring that the applicant provide service to all parts of the franchise area or permitting the applicant to designate only those portions it wishes to
serve. Certain of these state statutes allow incumbent cable operators to opt into the new state franchise where a competing state franchise has been issued for the incumbent’s franchise area. However, even in those states where incumbent
cable operators are allowed to opt into a state franchise, we often are required to retain certain franchise obligations that are more burdensome than the new entrant’s state franchise.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 










Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K
 
10
 






Table of Contents

   <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">
Copyright Regulation  In exchange for filing reports and
contributing a percentage of revenue to a federal copyright royalty pool, cable operators can obtain blanket permission to retransmit copyrighted material contained in broadcast signals. The possible modification or elimination of this copyright
license is the subject of ongoing legislative and administrative review. The elimination or substantial modification of the cable compulsory license could adversely affect our ability to obtain certain programming and substantially increase our
programming costs. The U.S. Copyright Office has issued a Notice of Inquiry on issues relating to the calculation of compulsory license fees that could significantly affect the amount we pay. Further, the U.S. Copyright Office has not yet made any
determinations as to how the compulsory license will apply to digital broadcast signals and services. In addition, we pay standard industry licensing fees to use music in the programs we create, including our Cable segment’s local advertising
and local origination programming, and our Programming segment’s original programs. These licensing fees have been the source of litigation with music performance rights organizations in the past and we cannot predict with certainty whether
license fee disputes may arise in the future.  
High-Speed Internet Services    <FONT
FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2">We provide high-speed Internet services by means of our existing cable systems. In 2002, the FCC ruled that this was an interstate information service that is not subject to regulation as a telecommunications service under
federal law or to state or local utility regulation. However, our high-speed Internet services are subject to a number of regulatory obligations, including compliance with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”)
requirement that high-speed Internet service providers must implement certain network capabilities to assist law enforcement in conducting surveillance of persons suspected of criminal activity.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">In addition, Congress and the FCC are considering defining certain rights for users of high-speed Internet services and regulating or restricting some types of
commercial agreements between service providers and providers of Internet content. These proposals are generally referred to as “net neutrality.” In August 2005, the FCC issued a nonbinding policy statement identifying four principles that
will guide its policymaking regarding high-speed Internet and related services. These principles provide that consumers are entitled to: (i) access lawful Internet content of their choice; (ii) run applications and services of their
choice, subject to the needs of law enforcement; (iii) connect their choice of legal devices that do not harm the network; and (iv) enjoy competition among network providers, application and service providers, and content providers.
Several parties are advocating that the FCC adopt these principles as formal rules. In addition, some parties have alleged that our high-speed Internet network management practices violate the FCC’s “net neutrality” principles and
requested that the  
FCC adopt rules, declaratory rulings or even penalties to change these practices. Further, Congress and some states are considering legislation that would establish
“net neutrality” rules or impose additional obligations on high-speed Internet providers. Any such rules or statutes could limit our ability to manage our cable systems (including use for other services), obtain value for use of our cable
systems or respond to competitive conditions. We cannot predict the outcome of the FCC proceedings or whether “net neutrality” rules or statutes will be adopted.  <P STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px"
ALIGN="justify">A federal program generally applicable to telecommunications services, known as the Universal Service program, requires telecommunications service providers to collect and pay a fee based on their revenues
(in recent years, roughly 10% of revenues) into a fund used to subsidize the provision of telecommunications services in high-cost areas and Internet and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care providers. The FCC
and Congress are considering revisions to the Universal Service program that could result in high-speed Internet services being subject to Universal Service fees. We cannot predict whether or how the Universal Service funding system might be
extended to cover high-speed Internet services or, if that occurs, how it will affect us.  Congress and federal regulators have adopted a wide range
of measures affecting Internet use, including, for example, consumer privacy, copyright protection, defamation liability, taxation, obscenity and unsolicited commercial e-mail. State and local governments have also adopted Internet-related
regulations. Furthermore, Congress, the FCC and certain local governments are also considering proposals to impose customer service, quality of service, privacy and standard pricing regulations on high-speed Internet service providers. It is
uncertain whether any of these proposals will be adopted. The adoption of new laws or the application of existing laws to the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our high-speed Internet business.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:24px;margin-bottom:0px">Phone Services    <P
STYLE="margin-top:8px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">We currently offer phone services using interconnected VoIP technology and circuit-switched technology. The FCC has adopted a number of orders addressing regulatory
issues relating to interconnected VoIP providers. In November 2004, the FCC ruled that a particular form of VoIP service is not subject to state or local utility regulation but has not yet ruled on the appropriate classification of interconnected
VoIP services. The state regulatory environment for interconnected VoIP therefore remains uncertain. In September 2006, the Staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission filed a complaint with that commission alleging that our interconnected VoIP
service was being offered as telecommunications in Missouri without a certificate of authority. We challenged in federal court the commission’s ability to adjudicate the complaint. 
  











 
11
 
Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K





Table of Contents

   <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">
In January 2007, the court ruled that the FCC had not yet specifically preempted state or local utility regulation of cable-delivered interconnected VoIP services and
permitted the complaint to move forward. In November 2007, the Missouri commission ruled that its enabling statute required it to regulate our interconnected VoIP services. The commission denied our request to reconsider that ruling and we have
appealed the commission’s ruling in federal court. In addition, the Vermont Public Service Board has opened a proceeding for the review of VoIP services in Vermont.  <FONT
FACE="ARIAL" SIZE="2">In April 2007, the FCC extended its customer proprietary network information requirements to interconnected VoIP providers. In June 2007, the FCC held that the disability access requirements that currently apply to
telecommunications carriers also apply to providers of interconnected VoIP services. In November 2007, the FCC extended local number portability requirements and benefits to interconnected VoIP providers and their competitive local
exchange carrier numbering partners. These requirements are in addition to prior requirements imposed on interconnected VoIP by the FCC, including E911, CALEA and Universal Service.  <P STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px"
ALIGN="justify">The FCC has initiated other rulemakings to consider whether to impose further regulations on interconnected VoIP providers. For example, in one rulemaking, it would impose on interconnected VoIP (and
telecommunications carriers) a 48-hour number porting interval.  The FCC and Congress are also considering how interconnected VoIP services should
interconnect with ILEC’s phone networks. Since the FCC has not determined the appropriate classification of interconnected VoIP service, the precise scope of ILEC interconnection rules applicable to interconnected VoIP providers is not
entirely clear. As a result, some ILECs may resist interconnecting directly with interconnected VoIP providers. In light of these concerns, VoIP service providers typically either secure CLEC authorization or obtain interconnection to ILEC
networks by contracting with an existing CLEC, whose right to deal with ILECs is clear. We have arranged for such interconnection rights through our own CLECs and through third party CLECs. It is uncertain whether and when the FCC or Congress will
adopt further rules in this area and how such rules would affect our interconnected VoIP service.  Our circuit-switched phone service is
subject to federal, state and local utility regulation, although the level of regulation imposed on us is generally less than that applied to the incumbent phone companies. The scope of ILEC obligations is, however, being reevaluated at the FCC and
in Congress. The FCC has already adopted measures relieving ILECs of certain obligations to make elements of their networks available to competitors at cost-based rates. The FCC has also initiated rulemakings on intercarrier compensation, Universal
Service and other matters that, in the aggregate, could significantly change the rules that apply to phone competitors, including the relationship between wireless and wireline providers, long-distance and local providers, and incumbents
and new entrants. It is unclear how  
these proceedings will affect our phone services. We plan to phase out our circuit-switched phone service in 2008, in accordance with applicable federal and state
regulatory rules.  Other Areas  <P
STYLE="line-height:4px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:2px;border-bottom:0.5pt solid #52a2dd">  The FCC actively regulates other aspects of our Cable
segment and limited aspects of our Programming segment, including the mandatory blackout of syndicated, network and sports programming; customer service standards; political advertising; indecent or obscene programming; Emergency Alert System
requirements for analog and digital services; E911 capabilities and CALEA obligations for interconnected VoIP and circuit-switched service; closed captioning requirements for the hearing impaired; commercial restrictions on children’s
programming; origination cablecasting (i.e., programming locally originated by and under the control of the cable operator); sponsorship identification; equal employment opportunity; lottery programming; recordkeeping and public file access
requirements; telemarketing; and technical standards relating to operation of the cable network. We are unable to predict how these regulations might be changed in the future and how any such changes might affect our Cable and Programming
businesses.  State and Local Taxes  Some states and
localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on the services we offer, or imposing adverse methodologies by which taxes are computed. These include combined reporting on other changes to general business taxes,
central assessments for property tax, and taxes and fees on video and voice services. Other cable industry members are challenging certain of these taxes in court. In addition, in some situations our DBS competitors do not face similar state tax and
fee burdens.  Privacy Regulation  The Communications Act
generally restricts the nonconsensual collection and disclosure to third parties of subscribers’ personal information by cable operators and phone providers. Additional requirements may be imposed if and to the extent that state or local
authorities establish their own privacy standards.  Employees  As
of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 100,000 employees, including part-time employees. Of these employees, approximately 86,000 were associated with our Cable business and the remainder were associated with our Programming and other
businesses. Approximately 5,000 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or have organized but are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe we have good relationships with our employees.<br
clear="All">  










Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K
 
12
 






Table of Contents

   Caution Concerning Forward-Looking <DIV
STYLE="position:relative;float:left; margin-right:1%; width:48%;padding-right:9px;padding-bottom:4px;overflow:hidden"> Statements  <P
STYLE="margin-top:15px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">The SEC encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and make informed
investment decisions. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we state our beliefs of future events and of our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify these so-called “forward-looking statements” by words such as
“may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of these words, and other comparable words. You should be aware
that those statements are only our predictions. In evaluating those statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risks and uncertainties listed in “Risk Factors” under Item 1A and in other reports
we file with the SEC. Actual events or our actual results may differ materially from any of our forward-looking statements. Additionally, we operate
in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment. The environment is affected by government regulation; economic, strategic, political and social conditions; consumer response to new and existing products and services;
technological developments; and, particularly in view of new technologies, the ability to develop and protect intellectual property rights. Our actual results could differ materially from management’s expectations because of changes in such
factors. Other factors and risks could adversely affect our operations, business or financial results of our businesses in the future and could also cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
 
Item 1A: Risk Factors  All of the services offered by our cable systems face a wide range of competition that could
adversely affect our future results of operations.  Our cable systems compete with a number of different sources that provide news, information
and entertainment programming to consumers. We compete directly with other programming distributors, including DBS companies, phone companies, companies that build competing cable systems in the same communities we serve, and companies that offer
programming and other communications services to our subscribers and potential subscribers, including high-speed Internet and VoIP service providers. This competition intensified during the second half of 2007 and may
adversely affect our business and results of operations in the future.   <DIV
STYLE="position:relative;float:right; width:48%;padding-right:9px;padding-bottom:4px;overflow:hidden"> We may face increased competition because of
technological advances and new regulatory requirements, which could adversely affect our future results of operations.  In addition to marketing
DBS services in certain areas, ILECs have built and are continuing to build wireline, fiber-optic-based networks and in some cases are using IP technology to provide video services in substantial portions of their service areas. ILECs and other
companies also offer DSL and other Internet services. We expect other advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace, to occur in the future. New technologies and services may develop that compete with services that our
cable systems offer, and such services may not be regulated in the same manner or to the same extent as our services. The success of these ongoing and future developments could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. Moreover, in
recent years, Congress and various states have enacted legislation and the FCC has adopted regulatory policies that have had the effect of providing a more favorable operating environment for some of our existing and potential new
competitors. Programming expenses are increasing, which could adversely affect our future results of operations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">We expect our programming expenses to continue to be our largest single expense item in the foreseeable future. The MVPD industry has continued to experience an
increase in the cost of programming, especially sports programming. If we are unable to raise our subscribers’ rates or offset such programming cost increases through the sale of additional services, the increasing cost of programming could
have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, as we add programming to our video services, we face increased programming expenses. <FONT FACE="ARIAL"
SIZE="2">We also expect to be subject to increasing demands by broadcasters in exchange for their required consent for the retransmission of broadcast programming to our subscribers. We cannot predict the impact of these demands or the effect
on our business and operations should we fail to obtain the required consents. We are subject to regulation by federal, state and local
governments, which may impose additional costs and restrictions.  Federal, state and local governments extensively regulate the video services
industry and may increase the regulation of the Internet services and digital phone services industries. We expect that legislative enactments, court actions and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and in some cases adversely effect the
rights and obligations of cable operators and other entities under the Communications Act and other laws. Congress considers new legislative requirements potentially affecting our businesses virtually every year. The results of these legislative,
judicial and administrative actions may materially affect our business operations. Local authorities grant us franchises that permit us to operate our cable systems. We have to renew or renegotiate these franchises 
  











 
13
 
Comcast 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K





Table of Contents

   <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">
from time to time. Local franchising authorities often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition of renewal or transfer, and these concessions or other
commitments could be costly to us. In addition, we could be materially disadvantaged if we remain subject to legal constraints that do not apply equally to our competitors, such as if telephone companies that provide video programming services are
not subject to the local franchising requirements and other requirements that apply to us. For example, the FCC has adopted rules and several states have enacted legislation to ease the franchising process and reduce franchising burdens for new
entrants. Congress and the FCC are also considering various forms of “net neutrality” regulation. See “
Legislation and Regulation” in Item 1 and refer to the “
Franchising” and “
High-Speed Internet Services” discussion within that section. Weakening economic conditions may reduce subscriber
spending on video, Internet and phone services and may reduce our rate of growth of subscriber additions.  A substantial portion of our revenues
comes from residential customers whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. The weakening economy affected our net subscriber additions during the second half of 2007 and, if these economic conditions continue to
deteriorate, the growth of our business and results of operations may be affected.  We face risks arising from the outcome of various litigation
matters.  We are involved in various litigation matters, including those arising in the ordinary course of business and those described under the
caption “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3. While we do not believe that any of these litigation matters alone or in the aggregate will have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, an adverse outcome in one or more of
these matters could be material to our consolidated results of operations and cash flows for any one period. Further, no assurance can be given that any adverse outcome would not be material to our consolidated financial position. <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">Acquisitions and other strategic transactions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of
any transaction.  From time to time we have made acquisitions and have entered into other strategic transactions. In connection with acquisitions
and other strategic transactions, we may incur unanticipated expenses; fail to realize anticipated benefits; have difficulty incorporating the acquired businesses; disrupt relationships with current and new employees, subscribers and vendors; incur
significant indebtedness; or have to delay or not proceed with announced transactions. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">  <P STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"
ALIGN="justify">Our Class B common stock has substantial voting rights and separate approval rights over several potentially material transactions and our Chairman and CEO has considerable influence over our operations
through his beneficial ownership of our Class B common stock. Our Class B common stock has
a nondilutable 33 1/3% of the combined voting power of our common stock. This nondilutable voting power is subject to
proportional decrease to the extent the number of shares of Class B common stock is reduced below 9,444,375, which was the number of shares of Class B common stock outstanding on the date of our 2002 acquisition of AT&T Corp.’s cable
business, subject to adjustment in specified situations. Stock dividends payable on the Class B common stock in the form of Class B or Class A Special common stock do not decrease the nondilutable voting power of the Class B common
stock. The Class B common stock also has separate approval rights over several potentially material transactions, even if they are approved by our Board of Directors or by our other stockholders and even if they might be in the best interests of our
other stockholders. These potentially material transactions include: mergers or consolidations involving Comcast Corporation, transactions (such as a sale of all or substantially all of our assets) or issuances of securities that
require shareholder approval, transactions that result in any person or group owning shares representing more than 10% of the combined voting power of the resulting or surviving corporation, issuances of Class B common stock or
securities exercisable or convertible into Class B common stock, and amendments to our articles of incorporation or by-laws that would limit the rights of holders of our Class B common stock.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:12px;margin-bottom:0px" ALIGN="justify">Brian L. Roberts beneficially owns all of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock and accordingly has considerable influence over our
operations and has the ability (subject to certain restrictions through November 17, 2012) to transfer potential effective control by selling the Class B common stock. In addition, under our articles of incorporation, Mr. Roberts is
entitled to remain as our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President until May 26, 2010, unless he is removed by the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the entire Board of Directors or he is no longer willing or able to serve. 

Item 1B